DRN-1602487
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Nationwide Building Society failed to compensate them enough for 
allowing an unknown third party to withdraw £1,900 from two accounts they hold. They want 
a further £200 in compensation than the £300 Nationwide has offered.
Background
Mr and Mr Mrs L hold several accounts with Nationwide. On 27 November 2019 Mr L 
reported to Nationwide that his debit card and credit card, and his drivers licence had been 
stolen. This was after another bank Mr L holds an account with contacted him to let him 
know someone had attempted to withdraw money using his details.
Nationwide discovered that a total of £1900 had been withdrawn from two accounts at one of 
its branches that same morning. It also discovered a prior transaction had been declined 
prior to this for £1000, which was attempted at a different branch. The transaction was 
declined due to concerns that the person wanting to make the withdrawals did not match the 
photo identification they had produced.
Nationwide raised a fraud claim and refunded Mr and Mrs L the money they lost. Mr and Mrs 
L complained to Nationwide about how someone could withdraw their money after the 
attempted withdrawals. They say Nationwides failure was shocking, causing them 
unnecessary distress and a loss of faith in Nationwide as an account provider.
Nationwide agreed it shouldn't have let the withdrawals take place. The original cashier who 
refused the £1000 withdrawal had left a record on Nationwides system due to their concerns 
about the identification that was produced. Nationwide admit the cashier in the other branch 
ought to have picked up on the record and refused the later withdrawals. It offered Mr and 
Mrs L £300 for the distress and inconvenience the mistake caused.
Mr and Mrs L think £300 is insufficient. They say they should receive at least £500. They say 
Nationwide had failed to flag the earlier withdrawal attempt with them and it had also failed to 
retain Mr Ls cards. Mrs L was also pregnant at the time of the incident and suffers from 
depression and anxiety, so her mental health was worsened by the incident.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint and decided Nationwide didn't need to pay any 
further compensation beyond what it had offered. In summary, they found:
Nationwide had failed Mr and Mrs L by allowing someone to withdraw the funds. It 
shouldn't have happened, and this is not in dispute.
Nationwide had acted promptly in refunding the amount that was withdrawn the same 
day. It was difficult to say there had been further financial loss beyond this.
£300 was reasonable compensation for the error Nationwide made and the impact it 
had on Mr and Mrs L. Our role was to consider compensation on what is fair and 
reasonable, but not to fine or punish Nationwide for its errors. 
Mr and Mrs L disagree with the investigators findings. They have asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator reached on Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, and for broadly the same 
reasons.
I dont think its in dispute that Nationwide made an error and failed to take reasonable steps 
to protect Mr and Mrs Ls accounts. The cashier who allowed the withdrawals ought to have 
checked Nationwides system and read the note that had been recorded  by the previous 
cashier at another branch. Had they done so, it's clear the withdrawals shouldn't have been 
processed.
Nationwides security processes dont show it ought to have retained Mr Ls cards or 
identification at the time of the attempted withdrawal. The person in possession of his cards 
had answered security questions correctly, and they were asked to come back with another 
form of identification. But I do appreciate why Mr L thinks Nationwide shouldve done more, 
particularly because of the actions he says the provider of his other account took.
Im satisfied Nationwide acted promptly when Mr L got in touch with them and refunded the 
unauthorised withdrawals the same day they were made. This is what Id expect it to do in 
the circumstances of what had happened, and in view of its error. So, what Im left to decide 
is whether Nationwides offer of £300 represents fair and reasonable compensation in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened very carefully to what Mr and Mrs L have said. I appreciate the shock they 
wouldve been caused when discovering their funds were missing, particularly in the lead up 
to Christmas. And I can understand why theyve lost trust in Nationwide as an account 
provider. I also take on board Mrs Ls condition at the time  which may have made her more 
vulnerable to the effects of the fraud that was perpetrated. I am sorry this happened to them 
both.
But Ive also had to balance the above with the fact that Nationwide did act quickly to ensure 
Mr and Mrs L weren't financially disadvantaged by the withdrawals for any longer than 
necessary. And, as our investigator was right to point out, I wouldn't consider compensation 
on the basis of penalising or punishing Nationwide for its error  not that Mr and Mrs L have 
asked me to.
I understand Mr L feels the Nationwide advisor he spoke to lacked empathy, as they initially 
only offered £100 and then changed their mind after Mr L said this wasn't enough. But I dont 
find the advisor changing their position after Mr Ls objections is sufficient as a reason to 
warrant compensation above £300.
I dont doubt Nationwides failure caused Mr and Mrs L real concern and worry. But I also 
find they are unlikely to need to stay with Nationwide in relation to the accounts that were 
affected. So, they can mitigate against the effect of those security concerns if they want to.
So, after weighing all the above factors, Im satisfied £300 is a reasonable and proportionate 
sum to compensate Mr and Mrs L, in view of the nature of Nationwides error and the impact it had on them. And if it hasn't already done so, Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs L the 
£300 it offered in compensation for the impact its error had on them
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided Nationwide Building Societys offer of £300 is 
fair and reasonable. In order to resolve the complaint Nationwide Building Society should 
ensure the offer is paid in line with my above direction, but I dont direct it to pay any more 
than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman