DRN-2183528
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make Mr W aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it 
to his card. Mr W started the application process for his card over the telephone and 
completed it by filling in an application form. HSBC has provided a copy of the application 
form Mr W completed. The form had a separate section for PPI where Mr W had the option 
to tick to either take the PPI or decline it. The option to take the policy has been selected and 
Mr W had signed the form in agreement with the selections that have been made. So, I think 
HSBC made Mr W aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to have it.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. Mr W has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he took the policy. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay and for longer. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman