DRN-3604950
The complaint
Mr F complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) had no right to close his account and that 
they didnt assess if he could afford to repay the balance when they did so.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mr Fs NextPay running credit account allowed Next to demand repayment of 
the full balance and to terminate his agreement if:
38 (ii) you are otherwise in material breach of this agreement (and this will include, for 
example, if you return or attempt to return substitute or non-faulty used items, when using 
our returns facility). 
Mr F wanted to return a pair of boots and in those circumstances the relevant legislation (the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015) gives the consumer various rights to get a refund, repair, or 
replacement, if the goods are not of satisfactory quality.
The boots were inspected by a store manager who formed the view that there was nothing 
wrong with the goods. I dont therefore think Next were wrong to seek to rely on the terms of 
their agreement with Mr F and to seek to terminate the agreement. This was the third item 
Mr F had returned to them for similar reasons in the first eight months or so of his contract. 
Next had been prepared to accept Mr Fs word on the condition of items before but I dont 
think they always had to do that. The responsibility to prove the items were of unsatisfactory 
quality was Mr Fs.
The contract allowed Next to terminate the agreement after a notice period, but Mr F 
explained to them that he was experiencing financial difficulties and in those circumstances I 
would expect Next to show him some forbearance. I think they did that. They allowed Mr F to 
repay the balance on the account over an extended period and they agreed not to charge 
interest.
But Next have an obligation to report Mr Fs performance on his account correctly to the 
credit reference agencies. As Mr F wasnt therefore paying his contractually obligated 
payments I dont think they were wrong to report that to his file.
Overall, whilst I understand that this has been a distressing incident for Mr F, I dont think 
Nexts actions were unfair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman