DRN-2376258
The complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about a claim made under her mobile phone insurance policy with 
Assurant Insurance Limited.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms G made a claim under her policy as her phone was faulty. She sent her 
phone to Assurant and it provided her with a replacement. Ms G was not happy as the 
replacement was not brand new but was a refurbished model. 
Assurant told Ms G it was entitled to provide a refurbished model as per the policy terms. 
A few weeks later, Ms G said the replacement phone was faulty, as it was not holding 
battery charge. She says she had only just set the new phone up, as she had not had time 
before and so had only then noticed the issue with the battery. Ms G also says she took the 
phone to the manufacturers store and it told her it hadn't been refurbished properly.
It was agreed that Ms G should return to the phone to Assurant. However, when Assurant  
received the phone it said it had water damage, so it would not replace it under the warranty 
provided. Assurant told Ms G she could make a claim for accidental damage to this phone, 
but that would be subject to another policy excess of £100.
Ms G was very unhappy about this and asked for her original phone to be returned but 
Assurant said it could not do so. She says it took Assurant two months to return the faulty 
phone to her. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said it was not unreasonable that 
Assurant provided a refurbished phone, rather than a brand new one, as this is in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. He also didnt think it was unreasonable that Assurant no 
longer had Ms Gs original phone, given it had settled her claim. 
The investigator also said the evidence supported that there was water damage to the 
phone. However, initially he said it was not clear when this had happened and thought it was 
possible this had been sent to Ms G damaged. He therefore initially recommended that 
Assurant provide another replacement phone. However, after Assurant provided evidence 
that the phone was quality checked before it went out to Ms G, he changed his mind. He 
also didnt think Assurant had acted unreasonably in keeping the phone for so long, as there 
was correspondence between it and Ms G until late September 2020 and it was waiting to 
see if she wanted to make a claim for the damage.
Ms G is very unhappy that the investigator changed his mind about the complaint. She has 
made a number of points in her initial complaint and in response to the investigator, which 
Ive summarised below: 
she has paid the premiums and a £100 excess to have her phone replaced or 
repaired but she received a second-hand faulty phone. 
The only damage to her original phone was a faulty battery and a screen 'blot' issue.
The second-hand replacement phone was faulty from the day she put her sim card in 
it. She went to the phone store to ask if the sim could have been corrupt, because 
the phone was dropping apps after opening and the battery was dying in a few hours 
without making a call, and they told her the phone was faulty, not the sim card. 
Assurant returned the faulty phone to her after several weeks so it should have been 
able to return her original phone, as soon as she called about the second-hand 
replacement but it refused. 
The replacement second-hand phone was faulty on receipt and the company have a 
moral responsibility to replace or return her original phone.
Ms G wants her original phone back or a brand new replacement (not another refurbished 
model). 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy held by Ms G, like most other mobile phone insurance policies of which I am 
aware, provides that it may replace an insured phone with a refurbished model. I do not 
therefore think that it acted unreasonably in providing a refurbished phone to M G in 
settlement of her claim. 
Assurant has provided a photo of the red liquid indicator, which does show there has been 
water in the phone.  Ms G has not disputed this evidence but says she didnt damage the 
phone and it must have been delivered to her with the water damage. 
It is extremely difficult in a case such as this for me to be certain about what has happened. I 
can only determine what seems to be the most likely course of events. 
Ms G says she didnt have time to turn the phone on and activate it until around a month 
after she received it. While I have no particular reason to doubt what Ms G has said, I note 
she did complain to Assurant about the replacement the day she received it. Ms G also says 
she took the phone to a store, when she found there were problems with it, and was told it 
was not refurbished properly. Theres no report or written confirmation of this from the store 
to support this. And Ms G has not said the store pointed out the red water damage indicator 
to her, when it looked at the phone. 
Assurant has provided evidence that before the phone was sent to Ms G on 7 July 2020 it 
went through various quality checks, including a check of the battery and the liquid damage 
indicator. It is of course possible that the check was not done properly, or was missed. 
However, having considered all the evidence and events overall, including the 
circumstances set out above, I think this is unlikely. Overall, therefore there is not enough 
evidence to convince me it had been sent to Ms G already damaged. 
I do not therefore think Assurant has acted unreasonably in saying it will repair/replace the 
phone but only as a claim under the policy. 
Ms G is also unhappy that Assurant it cant send back her original insured phone. It is a 
matter of insurance law that on an insurer providing full indemnity (which Assurant did when 
it sent a replacement phone to Ms S) it acquires the policyholders rights over the insured 
item. So Ms Gs original phone was its to dispose of how it wished and it appears Assurant did not keep it. While I can understand Ms Gs frustration about this, I am unable to conclude 
that Assurant has done anything wrong in this regard. 
Assurant did keep the replacement phone, as it was still part of an ongoing claim and it was 
waiting to see if Ms G wanted it to be repaired, which is why it was able to send this back to 
Ms G. I can understand Ms Gs unhappiness that it was kept for so long, but on the evidence 
that has been presented to me, I am not persuaded that Assurant acted incorrectly or 
unreasonably in doing so.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman