DRN-3456200
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited treated him unfairly when he was late making
payments due under a car finance agreement and requested a payment holiday.
What happened
Mr B took out a conditional sale agreement (CSA) for a used car in 19 June 2019. He agreed
to pay back what he borrowed plus interest over 60 months. Each monthly payment was due
on the first of the month and Mr B made his payments on time by direct debit until he missed
a payment in January 2021. He made the payment in full manually a few days later. This
happened again in February and March  Mr B made the payment but not on the due date. 
And Moneybarn said the account was one month in arrears and reported late payments on 
his credit file. Mr B thinks this was unfair and Moneybarn was unhelpful when he tried to 
explain about his financial and other issues impacted by the pandemic.
Mr B had complained to Moneybarn previously and it issued a final response to that 
complaint (and paid £75 compensation) in December 2020- for problems with account 
access. Moneybarn issued a final response in relation to the current complaint on 1 June 
2021 saying it considered arrears had been reported correctly to credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). Moneybarn acknowledged however that Mr Bs concerns may not have been 
addressed fully in earlier correspondence and paid him £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience associated with that.
Mr B remained unhappy and he referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt
recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr Bs payment schedule
is monthly and a payment made after the due date is late and liable for reporting to CRAs.
He didnt think it was unfair of Moneybarn to refuse to change the date that Mr Bs monthly
payment was due when he asked - because it would have increased the arrears. He
considered Moneybarns offer to set up a payment plan was fair and it shouldnt have to do
more.
Mr B didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He feels that 
Moneybarn didnt understand his situation and failed to provide help when he needed it. He
found some of the correspondence and contact with Moneybarn was patronising and didnt
address his individual circumstances. He wants Moneybarn to apologise and defer one
payment to the end of the agreement  or waive a monthly payment as compensation - and
rectify his credit file.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. I thought it 
was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. So, I issued a provisional 
decision on 7 April 2022. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This 
forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I hope Mr B will understand that Ive had to summarise what hes told us about his complaint
somewhat in this decision. I want to assure him, if I dont address every point thats been
raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything the parties
have said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate on what I think is key to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome. The rules that apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service
allow me to do this and it reflects our role - which is to resolve disputes between financial
businesses and their customers informally.
I have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and
codes of practice and good industry practice (where appropriate), when I make my decision.
Im not a regulator however, I dont have the power to investigate the way Moneybarn
operates on a day to day basis. And its not within my remit to punish Moneybarn, or any
individual employee. My job is to consider the evidence provided by both parties, without
taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the
circumstances of this particular complaint.
In order to decide if Moneybarn acted fairly here, Ive thought about what it did to support Mr
B when he experienced financial problems near the beginning of 2021. As a starting point, I
reviewed Moneybarns contact notes - which seem to be contemporaneous and fairly
consistent with events. Im not sure however if these contain all of the contact between Mr B
and Moneybarn at the relevant time. I say this because the notes set out some calls and 
correspondence from Moneybarn to Mr B but Ive also seen other correspondence between 
them that isnt included. 
Mr B has also told us that he had more extensive contact with Moneybarn around the 
relevant time which doesnt seem to be present. And the contact notes refer to issues raised 
via the online portal, which I dont think Ive seen. The investigator asked Moneybarn about 
this but we havent had a response. Im satisfied that I have sufficient information 
nevertheless to determine the matter fairly and reasonably. And, in any event, the parties 
have a further opportunity now to supply additional information (if they want to) in response 
to this provisional decision.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr B didnt make some of his monthly payments on the
exact date they were due near the start of 2021. It looks as if he made all his payments
before that on time - theres no suggestion he was in financial difficulties previously. From
the contact notes Ive seen, Im satisfied that Moneybarn wrote to Mr B in February 2021 to
let him know (amongst other things) that he could apply for a payment holiday online. 
I think this refers to guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect of 
financial difficulties arising as a result of Covid-19 for exceptional and immediate support to
customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus. The 
guidance came into effect in April 2020 and it was updated by the FCA a number of times 
during the pandemic. Ive considered the relevant guidance carefully. 
The guidance builds on existing principles which provide that firms must treat customers 
fairly and pay due regard to their interests and information needs - and communicate 
information in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. Insofar as its relevant here, the 
guidance provides (broadly speaking) that eligible customers (those not in pre-existing 
financial difficulties) could ask for a payment deferral for a period of three and up to six 
months (from July 2020). It was open to customers to apply for such Covid support until 31 
March 2021.Did Mr B request a payment holiday ?
Its not clear to me if Mr B ever made any attempt to apply online for a payment deferral. I
think he probably didnt - and that may be because he lost confidence in the online system
due to issues he had the previous year.
I can see that Moneybarn wrote to Mr B in March 2021 and asked him to explain why hed
missed payments. This was a relatively short and straightforward email and Mr B responded
the same day indicating that he was grateful for this correspondence in plain terms. He
referenced his poor mental health and went on to explain that his payment problems were
temporary and theyd arisen because he missed work when he had to isolate several times
due to concerns about Covid over the previous few months.
Moneybarn responded the following day and (a different case handler) suggested (again)
that Mr B could apply for a payment holiday but hed need to complete an income and
expenditure form. It looks as if Mr B responded four days later (on 29 March 2021). I think
its fair to say he was somewhat upset at this point and felt, I think, that he hadnt been
listened to. I acknowledge Mr B had said previously that he believed that it was wrong of
Moneybarn to consider his payments were late because they were made in the month they
were due. But, I think hed also made it fairly clear by this point that he wanted a payment
holiday and why.
Moneybarn rejected that request on 30 April 2021 saying  
unfortunately, we can only offer Payment Holidays to support those who have been
financially impacted directly by the Coronavirus Pandemic and therefore are unable to offer
Payment Holidays to allow you to catch up on previous missed payments. In addition to this,
we were only able to offer Payment Holidays for direct COVID impact, before 31st March
2021, under guidance of the Financial Conduct Authority and as a result are unable to
accommodate your request for a payment holiday. Due to the timescales set out by the
Financial Conduct Authority, applying a new period of payment holiday after 31st March
2021 is not possible.
I think this probably felt most unsatisfactory for Mr B because - as far as he was concerned -
hed explained already that his payment problems arose due to Covid and he requested a
payment holiday before 31 March 2021. Its not entirely clear to me what happened next. 
The contact notes suggest that Mr B contacted Moneybarn the following month to raise a 
complaint because he hadnt been given a payment holiday. I note the complaint handler 
recorded at the time that cust had requested [this] prior to end of March. Im inclined to 
agree that Mr B had asked for a payment holiday before the end of March 2021. Im not 
certain, from the information Ive got, why this wasnt actioned at that time. I can see the 
complaint handler in May noted will still need I&E and evidence to support request. So, I 
think Moneybarn probably wanted more information about Mr Bs income and expenses. 
I realise Moneybarn may also say Mr B didnt always respond when it tried to get in touch 
about that and some of his correspondence raised other points (about the timing of
payments and the like) or was generally unhelpful. However, Ive seen nothing to suggest
that Moneybarn sent Mr B an income and expenditure form to complete in March 2021 (or 
before that). And, even if it did, I think it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn to have 
considered if it actually needed such information in this particular situation.
Im satisfied the overall intention of the FCA Covid guidance was to provide immediate help
for customers in difficulty. The guidance makes it clear that theres no expectation that firms
undertake extensive checks. And, whilst firms can choose to make enquiries to satisfythemselves that a customer is eligible and would benefit from support, thats provided this
doesnt delay the provision of timely support.
Looking at the amount of arrears here, Mr Bs previous history of regular payments, his fairly
detailed explanation about why he missed a payment and the timing of his request for a
payment holiday along with other information Moneybarn had at the time, its difficult to see
why Moneybarn didnt agree to his request. Again, weve asked Moneybarn for more
information about this but it hasnt replied
Should Moneybarn have done more to assist ?
I think the crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he feels Moneybarn didnt take proper account of
his mental health and communication issues and it should have allowed him to defer one
monthly payment so he could get straight after experiencing Covid related financial 
problems. I think the complaint handler in May 2021 understood that Mr Bs complaint 
centred around the rejection of his request for a payment holiday. So, its difficult to see why 
the final response in June 2021 didnt mention this - or explain why he didnt qualify. I think 
that was probably upsetting for Mr B - when he was already very stressed and anxious - and 
hed explained previously that he felt Moneybarns correspondence was scripted and didnt 
really address his problems.
Im satisfied that Moneybarn was aware of Mr Bs mental health issues before April 2021. I
think its likely the pandemic had an adverse impact on Mr Bs mental health around the time
were looking at - making the issues he'd already told Moneybarn about worse. It looks as if
Moneybarn realised this - I can see a case handler acknowledged Mr Bs difficulties and
signposted help for mental health in an email on 3 April 2021. I accept that was supportive
but I dont think it went far enough, in these particular circumstances.
I consider it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn to take further steps earlier to
communicate with Mr B in a way that was more appropriate for him. I can see Moneybarn
tried to contact Mr B by phone a number of times but there was no response. I dont think
thats surprising however as Mr B had told Moneybarn previously that he preferred not to
speak on the phone due to mental health issues  but Moneybarn continued to send
messages asking him to phone them to discuss the account.
I acknowledge Moneybarn also wrote to Mr B a number of times but I dont think this
correspondence was always helpful. Moneybarn told Mr B in May 2021 for example, that he
could apply to extend a payment holiday online if he already had one  when Mr B had been
informed only a month before that it was too late for him to apply. I recognise Moneybarn
had to make Mr B aware of certain things at times and some of this information is automated
and, by definition, generic. But, I consider Moneybarn could have taken steps to intervene
and provide information in a manual way more often to meet the needs of Mr Bs individual
circumstances. I can see Moneybarn did this on a few occasions and I think Mr B tended to
respond more positively when that happened.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, Im satisfied that Mr B needed help from
Moneybarn when he had financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic in the early part of
2021. Im inclined to find Moneybarn should have made more effort to communicate with Mr
B appropriately - before the 31 March 2021 deadline especially  in order to assist him. I
think the failure to do so meant Mr B didnt get a payment deferral when he needed one,
adding to his distress and anxiety.
Putting things right
Its impossible for me to be certain what would have happened if Moneybarn had offeredmore appropriate help to Mr B in early 2021. I find Mr Bs evidence around the reasons for
his financial issues at the time seems plausible. Im satisfied, on balance, its likely he didnt
make payments on time due to circumstances that were temporary, Covid related and
outside of his control. I think he was probably entitled to a payment holiday - in accordance
with the relevant FCA guidance  and would have received one if hed been better
supported.
In that case Mr Bs credit file wouldnt have been impacted adversely and he would also
have been able to apply for an extension in April 2021 (if he needed one) - which would
likely have enabled him to get things back on track. Im inclined therefore to find it fair, in
these specific circumstances, for Moneybarn to remove any adverse information recorded on
Mr Bs credit file from January 2021.
As Ive explained, I think Moneybarn made things worse for Mr B at an already difficult time.
Having considered the impact on Mr B, Im minded to find it is fair and reasonable for
Moneybarn to refund one monthly payment as compensation for additional trouble and upset
caused (on top of the £50 compensation it has paid already in relation to this complaint) and
apply this to clear any outstanding arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and make further submissions (if
they wanted to) by 22 April 2022and explained that Id review all the evidence available after 
that and make my final decision.
Mr B accepted my provisional conclusions. Moneybarn hasnt responded or raised any 
objections. And I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision in the 
circumstances. For the reasons set out, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable for 
Moneybarn to rectify Mr Bs credit file and refund one monthly payment to compensate Mr B 
for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the £50 compensation paid already). It is open 
to Moneybarn to apply this refund towards any arrears, if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited to refund one monthly payment and rectify Mr Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman