DRN-2022215
The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about her pension and about the following parties:
IntegraLife UK Limited (trading as Transact)  the provider of the investment 
platform for her pension.
A third-party firm of advisers  the Adviser.
A third-party Discretionary Investment Management firm  the DIM.
The complaints about the Adviser (who serviced the pension) and the DIM (appointed to 
provide management of the pensions investments) have been addressed separately. In 
addition, the complaint about Transact was split into two and each part has been addressed 
separately. The present complaint about Transact is about the following allegations:
Production of an inaccurate quarterly report on Ms Bs pension (for the period ending 
July 2018) and failing to treat this issue as a formal complaint. [issue 1]
Applying charges to the pension which duplicated those applied by the DIM. [issue 2]
Mishandling the task of changing Ms Bs home address on her platform account. 
[issue 3]
What happened
For the sake of completeness, the following issues are those that are beyond the present 
complaint and have been addressed separately:
The allegation that Transacts non-advised platform fees were unfair.
The allegation that Transacts non-advised dealing costs were unfair.
A summary of key events, based on available evidence and relevant to the present 
complaint, is as follows:
In July 2016 Ms B opened her platform account with Transact; a different firm 
previously serviced it, but in August 2017 that firm terminated its service and the 
account moved into a non-advised/execution only status; between November and 
December 2017 Ms B gave the Adviser temporary authority to access the account; 
and in March 2018 she confirmed the Adviser as her servicing agent for the account.
In March 2018 the Adviser issued its advice letter to Ms B recommending that she 
keep her pension on the Transact Platform and recommending the use of the DIMs 
Growth model portfolio service for the pension; in the same month Ms B installed, in 
the platform account, the DIM as discretionary managers of her pension.
Between April and June 2018 Transact addressed Ms Bs complaint about non-
advised fees.
In May 2018 Transact issued a response to Ms Bs complaint about her account 
being moved to a non-advised status in late 2017 and charges related to that, about 
issue 3 and about the remit of its role in her pension. With regards to issue 3 its 
position was that it noticed a change of her address when the Adviser was given 
access to her account in late 2017; it highlighted this and requested specific 
instruction to change the address on the account; but no instruction was given.
In July 2018 Transact issued an inaccurate quarterly report; the Adviser noticed this 
in August and pointed it out; in September the Adviser complained, on Ms Bs behalf, 
to Transact; Transact responded (with apologies) a few days later, it conceded 
responsibility for the error and issued a corrected version of the report.
In March 2019 the Adviser terminated its relationship with Ms B and withdrew itself 
from servicing the pension; it also informed Transact about this, so in this month    
Ms Bs platform account moved again into a non-advised/execution only status.
In March 2020 Transact issued a response to Ms Bs complaint about non-advised 
fees, about issue 1 and about issue 2. Its position on issue 1 was that it addressed 
the inaccurate report in September 2018 after the Adviser brought the matter to its 
attention; that it issued a corrected version of the report; that it responded to the 
complaint the Adviser made on Ms Bs behalf and explained how the report error had 
happened; and that no financial loss resulted from the error, so its complaint 
response to the Adviser was sufficient. Its position on issue 2 was that the DIM was 
appointed by Ms B and the Adviser, and Transact had no responsibility to oversee or 
instruct the DIMs activities in the pension; that each party involved in the pension 
charged separately (the Adviser charged for advice, the DIM charged for managing 
investment strategy for the pension and Transact charged for the platform service); 
that there had been no duplication in its fees or the fees paid to the DIM; and that it 
facilitated the fees paid to the DIM in line with Ms Bs signed agreement.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. 
She found that Transact resolved issue 1 fairly by recognising and quickly correcting the 
error and by apologising for it in its complaint response, and that complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity so any dissatisfaction Ms B has about Transacts complaint handling 
process cannot be addressed (as a distinct complaint issue); with regards to issue 2, she 
said sections 3.6 and 10 of the terms agreed between Ms B and Transact permitted the 
latter to receive instructions from and make payments to the Adviser and DIM, that each firm 
involved in her pension charged separately so this did not necessarily mean charges were 
duplicated and that there was no evidence of incorrect or duplicated charges by Transact; 
and with regards to issue 3 she said section 4.1 of the agreed terms required a written 
instruction in order to change Ms Bs account address so Transact was entitled to ask for 
that, it later waived this requirement but that did not mean its initial request for instruction 
was unreasonable. 
Ms B disagreed with this outcome. She made comments on the separate complaint about 
the DIM and the separate (second) complaint about Transact. In terms of the present 
complaint about Transact she said she did/does not have a contractual relationship with the 
DIM, so she is not bound by the term about Transact making payments to the DIM. She also 
queried why the Transact related servicing issues she complained about on 20 and 21 May 
2020 had not been addressed by the investigator and queried the authority relied upon by 
the investigator in saying Transacts complaint handling could not be addressed as a distinct 
complaint. In response, the investigator confirmed that the issues agreed for the present complaint 
were all addressed in the outcome she delivered and that the terms Ms B agreed with 
Transact permitted payments to the DIM irrespective of her view about not having a 
contractual relationship with the DIM. She also referred Ms B to the regulators rules on our 
jurisdiction [and on the types of complaints we can address].
Ms B sought disclosure of telephone phone recordings she considered relevant to the 
complaint and said she reserved a right to comment further on the investigators outcome 
following receipt of that disclosure. On 18 November 2020 the investigator wrote to her, 
confirmed the recordings were available to be downloaded and gave her instructions on how 
to do so. To date, our records do not show that Ms B has commented further on the 
investigators findings.
The complaint was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons. 
The issues in the present complaint are determinable by available documentary evidence  
the facts about issue 1 were captured in correspondence (and documents) between the 
parties (copies of which we have) as they happened; account records of charges applied by 
Transact to Ms Bs platform account should determine, in issue 2, whether (or not) charges 
were duplicated as alleged; and the key facts in issue 3 are also available to us in copies of 
documents which captured them as they happened. 
First, I address matters arising from Ms Bs responses to the investigators view, then I 
address the complaint issues.
Additional evidence
Ms B is entitled to present evidence in support of her complaint as she sees fit. However, it 
is not clear what  if anything  in the phone recordings she considers to be of additional 
relevance to the complaint and there is no record that she has highlighted this to us since 18 
November 2020 (when she was given access to the recordings).
Complaints we can address
The regulators Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules (in its Handbook) sets out the types of 
complaints we can address at DISP 2.3.1 R, which provides as follows  
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than administering a benchmark);
(1A) payment services;
(1C) CBTL business;
(3) lending money secured by a charge on land;
(4) lending money (excluding restricted credit where that is not a credit-related regulated 
activity );(5) paying money by a plastic card (excluding a store card where that is not a credit-related 
regulated activity );
(6) providing ancillary banking services;
(7) offering and/or issuing of investments by ISPVs;
(8) giving non-personal recommendation advice;
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
The category that caters for Ms Bs complaint is the category for regulated activities. Under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 and in the 
context of investments, regulated activities are  dealing in investments (as principal or 
agent), arranging deals in investments, managing investments, safeguarding and 
administering investments, sending dematerialised instructions, establishing a collective 
investment scheme, establishing a stakeholder pension scheme, and advising on 
investments.
None of the above feature the activity of complaint handling. DISP 2.3.1 R extends our 
jurisdiction to ancillary activities connected to regulated activities, but that means activities 
conducted ancillary to discharging the regulated work. This inherently conflicts with the idea 
of complaint handling in isolation. In terms of Transacts handling of the complaint in issue 1, 
as a part of issue 1, that was addressed by the investigator and will be addressed below.
Servicing issues raised on 20 and 21 May 2020
Ms Bs letter to Transact dated 20 May 2020 enquired into rebates for her investments in the 
tax years between April 2016 and April 2020; enquired into whether (or not) she was entitled 
to notice whenever her portfolio dropped by at least 10% in value; and enquired into specific 
contents of Transacts Annual Report on her account for the period ending 5 April 2020. 
None of these issues relate to those summarised in the introduction above, and the issues 
summarised above are those agreed for this complaint, so they are beyond the remit of this 
complaint and this decision. Ms Bs letter to Transact dated 21 May 2020 made similar 
Annual Report related enquiries  with regards to Transacts reporting for the period ending 
5 April 2019. These too do not relate to the present complaint and the issues summarised in 
the introduction above, so they are beyond the remit of this decision.
Issue 1
I do not consider that Transact could reasonably have done any more to address this issue. I 
appreciate that Ms B could argue that it should not have committed the error in the report in 
the first instance, and I agree. However, I must address the facts as they are and issue 1 is 
mainly about the resolution of the erroneous report. The facts are that Transact committed 
the error, promptly corrected it, reissued the corrected quarterly report and apologised for its 
error. It handled this matter in both practical terms and in terms of the formal complaint the 
Adviser submitted on behalf of Ms B.
I have considered whether (or not) compensation for trouble and upset should have been 
offered to Ms B in addition to Transacts apology. I am not persuaded that should have been 
the case. Evidence shows that if any inconvenience arose from the matter it was faced, in 
the main, by the Adviser. There is correspondence between the Adviser and Ms B, and 
between the Adviser and Transact which supports this finding. The Advisers engagement 
with Transact was what brought the matter to Transacts attention, was what aided 
correction of the error and was what led to exhaustion of the complaint to Transact. Overall 
and on balance, I am satisfied that Transacts apology was sufficient in the circumstances.Issue 2
A claim for disputed fees requires a clear basis in evidence. Evidence that shows the dispute 
is or is not legitimate. We have disclosure of the fees applied by Transact to Ms Bs account 
and I have not seen evidence to support the allegation that they duplicated fees paid to the 
DIM.
Ms B has had the opportunity since Transacts response to issue 2 in March 2020  and 
since her enquiries in May 2020 (as summarised above)  to specify the charges she says 
were duplicated in this respect. That does not appear to have been done to the extent of 
establishing this claim. Ms B is entitled to the enquiries about charges that she has made, 
but they do not confirm the allegation about Transacts charges duplicating the DIMs.
I have noted Ms Bs argument about not having a contractual relationship with the DIM. This 
appears to have arisen from a jurisdiction determination we made in her separate complaint 
about the DIM. It was concluded that the lack of a direct regulated relationship between her 
and the DIM means she is not an eligible complainant. I do not alter or add to that 
determination in any way and, for the sake of clarity, my summary of the determination 
above is not intended to do this. However, in terms of Ms Bs position on Transacts 
payments to the DIM, I consider that Transact was entitled to make such payments. Ms B 
was joint signatory to the document appointing the DIM to her platform account  the Adviser 
was the other signatory. Furthermore, as the investigator noted, the terms agreed between 
her and Transact approved such payments. Overall, I am satisfied Transact had authority to 
make payments to the DIM. 
Issue 3
I endorse and incorporate into this decision the investigators findings on this issue. I do not 
consider I can add meaningfully to them. In a nutshell, Transact was entitled to request 
specific instruction in order to change Ms Bs account address and it sought that instruction; 
it thereafter appears to have made a reasonably pragmatic decision to waive the 
requirement in the circumstances (including acceptance of an alternative basis for 
instruction). On balance, I do not consider the matter to have been mishandled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman