DRN-3648670
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt provide him with agreed support and 
didnt send him a cheque as promised.
What happened
Mr H says he called Nationwide in December 2021 to make a transfer and had previously 
agreed specialist support with it. He says he was told by Nationwide that he would receive a 
call back from its specialist support team in a week as he hadnt used the team in some time. 
Mr H says when he deposited his money in his Nationwide account, he wasnt told the 
support service would be removed or reviewed. He also says he asked Nationwide to send 
him a cheque, but it sent it to a branch. Mr H says due to health reasons he cant easily 
attend a branch.
Nationwide says Mr H hadnt used its support team in about two years and says in those 
circumstances, requires customers to speak to it about renewing it. It accepts it shouldnt 
have sent the cheque to a branch and has apologised as well as offering £100 
compensation. Nationwide says it did make the transfer when Mr H called it in December 
2021.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly 
with it. The investigator thought Mr H was able to make the transfer and that Nationwide was 
entitled to review its support. The investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he agreed terms with Nationwide that he would 
receive help and that an agreement is just that. He says the compensation isnt sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how 
strongly he feels about what took place.
I appreciate that Mr H says that Nationwide agreed to provide him with specialist support. 
But I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by telling Mr H that, as he hadnt used or needed 
that support over the previous two years or so, it would review that position. I dont think 
Nationwide acted unfairly by telling Mr H that it would contact him in a week taking into 
account that Mr H contacted it between Christmas and the New Year period. I also think its 
up to Nationwide when exercising its commercial judgement what its review and support 
policy is. We are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to direct it to remove such 
review periods.
I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by telling Mr H that he should use the support service 
every six months to avoid this sort of situation. And dont think, as Mr H says, that was 
onerous to, for example, make a transaction every six months.
I can see that any event Mr H was able to transfer his money when he called Nationwide on 
29 December 2021 and that he is able to use its support service. So, I dont think there was 
a significant impact caused to Mr H.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a mistake by not sending Mr H the cheque 
he requested. Its not clear why the cheque was sent to a branch for Mr H to collect when 
that is something that would be extremely difficult for him to do. But Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has fairly apologised for that mistake and made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. I dont think the mistake had a significant impact and Mr H appears to 
have received the cheque but with a delay. I have not seen evidence of financial loss and 
dont think that mistake justifies an increased compensation amount.
I accept Mr H may not wish to accept the £100 compensation offer and so will leave that to 
him to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman