DRN-4430097
The complaint
Miss R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was 
irresponsible when it offered her credit.
What happened
Tesco opened a credit card account for Miss R in January 2019 in with a credit limit of
£5,800. This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. On opening the
account, Miss R transferred an existing credit card balance of £2,000 to the card and
made a £700 money transfer. She also either transferred existing store card purchases
totalling £3,000 or made a new purchase of this amount. Her minimum payments in 2019
were around £110.
Miss R complained to Tesco that it had been irresponsible to open the account for her
due to her level of existing debt and how shed managed this. She said this would have
been visible on her credit file along with a recent default.
Tesco said it relied on the information Miss R provided in her application and information
from the credit reference agencies. It said the account had been well maintained and all
fees and charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. It 
didnt agree it had been irresponsible to open the account for Miss R and didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt
recommend that it be upheld. They found that Tesco carried out proportionate checks before
opening the account for Miss R and that there wasnt anything in its checks which suggested
that the credit would be unaffordable for her.
Miss R disagreed with our investigators recommendation and asked for her complaint to
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve and it came to me. I issued a provisional 
decision on 2 October 2023 explaining why I thought Miss Rs complaint should be upheld 
and setting out my proposals to put things right for her. I allowed some time for either party 
to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they wished me to consider. 
Miss R had some comments in response my decision and Ive had no response from Tesco. 
Miss R said that Tesco had recently let her know it had defaulted her account and she asked 
that the default be removed. In my provisional proposals for putting things right for Miss R I 
said that Tesco should remove any adverse information from her credit file once any 
adjusted balance had been cleared. This would include any defaults. 
Miss R also said that Tesco hadnt treated her fairly regarding putting in place a payment 
plan for her account because what it proposed wasnt affordable for her. Miss R said that 
Tesco hadnt respected her preferred communication methods. Weve let Miss R know that 
these were points she hadnt previously raised with Tesco and so she would need to 
approach it in the first instance. If she wasnt happy with the response she received she 
could refer a complaint to us. I have not addressed these points in this final decision. 
This is my final decision on the complaint and will be legally binding on both parties should 
Miss R chose to accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, I remain of the view that Miss Rs complaint should be 
upheld. Ill set out my reasons and conclusions again in this final decision. 
As Id said before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible 
lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Tesco, 
need to abide by. Tesco will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is 
set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise 
them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Tesco needed to check that Miss R could afford
to repay the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for
example the amount offered, and to Miss Rs particular circumstances. The overarching
requirement was that Tesco needed to pay due regard to Miss Rs interests and treat her
fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting customers with
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness,
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my considerations are did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate
checks when it opened the account for Miss R to satisfy itself that she would be able to
repay the credit offered within a reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what would
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Tesco make a fair
lending decision?
Tesco said it relied on information provided by Miss R and information from credit reference
agencies to make its lending decision. It recorded that Miss R had a net monthly income of
£3,000 and calculated her outgoings as £2,693, including estimated repayments for this
account plus a buffer amount. Tesco said that there was no adverse information recorded on
Miss Rs credit file and noted that she had existing loans amounting to around £14,000 with
monthly repayments of £229 and revolving credit balances of about £6,000. Tesco
concluded that Miss R had a level of disposable income which meant the credit card
repayments would be affordable and sustainable for her.
Tesco said in its final response letter to Miss R that it didn't obtain any evidence of her stated
income of £3,000 per month but that there was no obligation for it to do so - it was
reasonable for it to work on the basis that the information she provided was true, based on
the other checks it carried out. Im afraid I disagree with Tesco on this point. The regulations
at the time stated that a lender must take reasonable steps to determine or estimate a
customers current income and that it wasnt generally sufficient to rely solely on their
statement of current income without independent evidence. In this instance, given Miss Rs
existing level of debt and that it was offering her an additional £5,800 credit, I think it would
have been proportionate of Tesco to verify Miss Rs income in order to ensure shed be able
to repay the credit within a reasonable period of time without experiencing financial difficulty.
Miss R provided us with copies of her bank statements and Ive relied on these tounderstand Miss Rs means at the time. To be clear, Im not suggesting this is the
information Tesco should have considered but it is the information I have and I think its
reasonable to rely on it as a proxy for what a proportionate check would likely have shown.
The bank statements show that Miss Rs income was made up of a weekly wage of £145,
tax credits, child-related benefits and student loans to a monthly average of about £2,000 
altogether. Further credit was clearly unaffordable for Miss R using Tescos estimated 
expense figure. The identifiable spending I can see on Miss Rs bank statements show 
monthly outgoings on rent, bills and existing debts of over £1,900, not including other usual 
expenses such as transport, food or clothing. Miss R was fully utilising her overdraft of 
£1,150 and was on occasion charged unarranged overdraft fees. 
It seems to me that Miss R was having difficulty meeting her existing commitments out of her 
usual means and wasnt likely to be able to meet her repayments for this new amount of 
credit without difficulty. I think Tesco would have learnt this through a proportionate check 
and would have declined to lend to her. It follows that I think it was irresponsible to have 
entered into the agreement.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able
to charge any interest or fees under the credit agreement. But I also think its fair that Miss R 
pays back the money she borrowed. 
Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees and charges that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss R along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Miss Rs credit file; or
If, after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss R for the remaining amount. Once Miss R has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file.
**HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im upholding Miss Rs complaint about Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank and it needs to take the above steps to put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman