DRN-3610031
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland wont refund a payment for an item he returned to a 
retailer. He paid for the item with his Bank of Scotland credit card, issued under its Halifax 
brand. Ill refer to the bank as Halifax.
What happened
On 4 October 2021 Mr G bought a computer monitor online from a retailer which Ill call S. It 
cost £299.99, which Mr G paid by credit card. The monitor was delivered on 6 October 2021. 
Mr G soon discovered however that he could not use the monitor. Its display caused him 
discomfort when used with this computer. He returned it to S on 11 October 2021 and asked 
for a refund; S received it on 14 October 2021.
S said however that Mr G was not entitled to a refund. The monitor had been removed from 
its packaging and showed signs of use. A further inspection indicated that it had been used 
for around 28 hours. Mr G did not dispute that he had tried to use the monitor, but he said 
that he had returned it in its original packaging and with all cables and other items included 
with it.
Because S would not provide a refund, Mr G contacted Halifax. He said that section 75(1) of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 entitled him to seek a refund from it, in the same way that he 
could seek a refund from S.
Halifax initially refunded Mr Gs account, but then reversed that refund when challenged by 
S. It told Mr G that it was satisfied there were no grounds for a refund. It did acknowledge 
however that there had been some delays and paid Mr G £40 in recognition of that.
Mr G referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that Halifax refund the payment. His reasons were broadly 
the same as those given by Halifax. Mr G did not accept the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I thought that Halifax should refund the price of 
the monitor. 
I noted that Mr Gs contract with S was to be read as including a term that the monitor would 
be fit for purpose and that, because he paid for it with his Halifax credit card, the bank was 
equally liable with S for ensuring that it was. I did not however think the monitor was not fit 
for purpose or otherwise faulty. 
I noted however that the contract said:
 We hope you love your purchase but if youve changed your mind, no problem  all returns 
are complimentary. You have 28 days  from the point you received or collected your online 
order. If the item is new and unused, with all the labels and tags intact, and in its original 
packaging, youll get a full, no quibble refund.
In addition, regulation 29 of The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 gave Mr G the right to return the monitor within 14 
days  because it was an online purchase. Mr G had returned the monitor 8 days after 
delivery. 
Regulation 34(9) says: 
If (in the case of a sales contract) the value of the goods is diminished by any amount as a 
result of handling of the goods by the consumer beyond what is necessary to establish the  
nature, characteristics and functioning of the goods, the trader may recover that amount 
from the consumer, up to the contract price.
Regulation 34(12) says:
For the purposes of paragraph (9) handling is beyond what is necessary to establish the 
nature, characteristics and functioning of the goods if, in particular, it goes beyond the sort of 
handling that might reasonably be allowed in a shop.
I thought that the time that Mr G had the monitor was consistent with what was necessary for 
him to establish that, for whatever reason, it would not function as he had intended. Mr G 
had therefore returned the monitor within the time allowed by the contract and the 
regulations. It followed that Mr G should receive a refund of the price. 
Halifax accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr G explained that he had in fact taken alternative action and had been reimbursed by the 
retailer. He acknowledged, correctly, that it would not be fair for him to receive a refund from 
Halifax as well. He did however say that he thought he should be compensated for the time 
he had spent dealing with the matter and for the fact that Halifax had incorrectly said that he 
did not have a valid claim under section 75.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr G has now received a refund from S, the only issue I have to decide is whether 
he should receive further compensation from Halifax in respect of its handling of his section 
75 claim.
As indicated, Halifax did acknowledge that there were some delays in dealing with the claim 
and paid Mr G £40 in recognition of that. Mr G thinks he should be compensated for his time 
in dealing with the case and because Halifax made an error in rejecting his section 75 claim. 
We do not generally award compensation for the time complainants spend in bringing with a 
complaint to us. And I do not believe that it would be appropriate to make a further award 
simply because my provisional decision upheld the main substance of Mr Gs complaint. 
Overall, I believe that the £40 already paid is sufficient in the circumstances.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman