DRN-4245841
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount of information Lloyds Bank PLC asked him for when 
trying to arrange a new interest rate product on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr M has a mortgage with Lloyds. He says he spoke with Lloyds in 2021 to discuss a new 
mortgage rate. He says the rate he was offered was 1.5% at this time. However, Mr M says 
he was asked for a large number of documents to support the application for the new rate. 
He said he got the impression it would be difficult to put the new rate in place so didnt 
proceed.
In 2022, Mr M again got in touch with Lloyds to discuss a new rate. He says the process was 
much easier this time and he was able to secure a new rate, but this time the rate was 3.5%. 
Mr M complained to Lloyds saying that the amount of information he was asked for in 2021 
was unreasonable. He asked Lloyds to honour the rate available in 2021.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it can only secure a rate when an application is 
made, and Mr M didnt make an application. Lloyds wasnt able to find a recording of the call 
Mr M said he had with it in 2021 so wasnt able to comment on what information he was 
asked to provide.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Lloyds hadnt 
been able to provide a copy of any calls from 2021 with Mr M. But it was clear an application 
hadnt been made so didnt think Lloyds was required to honour the interest rate available in 
2021.
Mr M agreed he hadnt made an application but said that this was because of the amount of 
information Lloyds had requested. And he said if Lloyds was saying there had been no call in 
2021, then it was acting fraudulently. Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When there is a dispute about whats happened, or evidence is incomplete, I have to make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, whats most likely to have happened 
given the evidence I do have.
Mr M says he spoke with a mortgage advisor in 2021. Hes provided the email chain which 
shows he was in correspondence with a mortgage advisor around this time to arrange a 
discussion. Based on what I have, Im willing to accept that Mr M did probably speak with a 
mortgage advisor around this time. Ill be clear at this stage that Lloyds isnt saying a call 
didnt take place either. Its simply saying it doesnt have a recording of this call. Ive no 
reasons to find this suspicious as Mr M does, given the amount of time that has passed 
since this call took place. 
Mr M says that this discussion was around switching his mortgage rate. Again, Im willing to 
accept this likely was the case. But what is in dispute here is whether the amount of 
information Mr M was asked to provide was unreasonable to the point of preventing him with 
going ahead with a mortgage transfer. 
Ive thought about this, and I have no reason to doubt Mr M was put off by the information he 
was asked for. However, Im not persuaded that the information requested was 
unreasonable to the point of meaning Mr M couldnt proceed with the application had he not 
wanted to. I say this as Ive been provided with copies of Lloyds product switch policy which 
shows what information may or may not be requested during a product switch. And Lloyds 
has confirmed that its policy didnt change between Mr M first speaking with an advisor in 
2021, and his application in 2022. 
Theres nothing on there which I would consider an arduous request, though I accept some 
of the information which mayve been requested may not have immediately been to hand. 
Furthermore, I cant see why a mortgage advisor would ask for more information than was 
required, given this would only create them more work as well. And ultimately, its better for 
Lloyds to keep a borrower by them committing to a longer-term rate, and likely in the 
mortgage advisors interests to arrange a new product switch.
In addition to this, if the amount of information being requested at this time was that 
unreasonable, or an invasion of privacy as Mr M has referred to it, then Id question why he 
didnt raise a complaint at the time. Or, why he didnt look to move his mortgage elsewhere if 
he really wanted to secure a new rate. 
I also note that in 2022, Mr M chose to approach Lloyds again with regards to a rate switch 
rather than look to another lender. If his experience was as bad as he says it was the first 
time, then Id question why he didnt simply approach a different lender.
I think its most likely that Mr M was frustrated at having to provide further information and 
chose not to proceed in 2021. And he now, understandably, regrets that decision given the 
large increase in interest rates since. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Ms decision not to proceed with the application in 2021. Mr M has said 
the process was much easier with another lender he holds a mortgage with. That may be the 
case. Lenders are generally entitled to ask for the information that it sees fit in individual 
circumstances. For the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that, on balance, the 
information asked for in 2021 was likely unreasonable. I accept Mr M didnt want to provide 
it, or that it may not have been straightforward to obtain all of that information. But that 
doesnt mean Lloyds wasnt entitled to ask for it.
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about this matter now. And thats understandable 
given the rate he did end up getting compared to what was likely available in 2021. But, for 
the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has done anything wrong here. So, 
Im not going to ask it to give Mr M a lower interest rate on his mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman