DRN-1426796
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) disposed of his car without giving him 
the option to retain the salvage following a claim.
What happened
Mr P purcased an insurance policy for a classic car through a broker. When buying the 
policy, the broker let him know that if he paid an additional premium of £15 Ageas would let 
him retain the salvage of his car at no cost should it be written off during the policy term. Mr 
P opted to pay the additional premium. 
Part way through the policy Mr P was involved in an accident and his car was declared a 
total loss. The car wasnt inspected Ageas engineers made this decision based on a 
desktop review. 
Ageas made an offer to Mr P for his car of £2750, which he declined. It then increased its 
offer to £3,500 and told Mr P if he wanted more then it would need to be inspected but there 
was a risk this could reduce the value. Mr P accepted the offer of £3,500.
In a call with Ageas he asked what he could keep from the car  Ageas told him he could 
keep personal items such as car mats etc, but the car would need to be relinquished as a 
whole car. 
Mr P also asked Ageas what would happen to the car now - Ageas told him the car would be 
collected by a salvage agent and it was possible that it would be put up for auction.
The claim was settled, and the car was collected by Ageas salvage agent and sold at 
auction for £598.
Mr P later found out that he couldve kept the car and so complained to Ageas. In its final 
response to Mr P Ageas said it doesnt promote retention of vehicles following a total loss 
claim but if he had wanted to keep the car he could have said during the claim and it would 
have allowed this. As a gesture of goodwill, it gave Mr P £299  half of the salvage price it 
attained at auction for Mr Ps car.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. The investigator didnt 
think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. In summary he said that it isnt industry practice for 
insurers to customers an option to retain salvage following a total loss and so thought Ageas 
had acted fairly when dealing with Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disagreed, his reasons in summary were:
he didnt ask to keep the salvage as he didnt know that he could
he has never had a total loss claim before and was being guided by the claims 
handler
he is entitled to the rest of the salvage vale as he paid for this with the add on to his 
policy
The matter was passed to me to decide.
I spoke to Ageas with the hope of resolving matters informally, as I didnt feel it had got 
things right here. 
I said that I felt if Ageas charge an additional premium for the salvage retention cover then it 
should highlight the benefit to the customer at the claim stage.
I explained as Mr Ps car was a classic car, had he known this was an option it is one he 
wouldve taken advantage of. By not offering him this Ageas not only denied him the option 
of restoring the car, which is common for classic car owners to want to do, but it also denied 
him the benefit of the salvage money until he complained when it then gave him half of it.
I asked Ageas to pay Mr P the remainder of the salvage money (£299) and to pay him £300 
for the inconvenience and upset it caused. Ageas disagreed it said:
The salvage retention is offered by the broker, not Ageas
It doesnt want to push salvage retention as it doesnt want customers coming back 
to it after the event if there are issues later with the car
I also explained this to Mr P. Mr P has let me know he agrees with my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions I have set out above, for the same 
reasons, but I will explain further.
Ageas has said its the broker that offers the salvage retention cover  I have discussed this 
with Ageas, and it has confirmed that this isnt a separate policy it is merely an added benefit 
(with an additional cost) of the main policy. Because of this I think it falls under the 
responsibility of Ageas as it agrees to allow the broker to offer this benefit.
Ageas has said it doesnt want to push retention onto customers and so it doesnt promote 
retention of salvage. I accept this is common practice in the industry and understand the 
reasons for this. But in Mr Ps case Ageas has benefitted from an additional premium for that 
very thing and so it cant fairly charge for the benefit at the beginning of the policy but 
choose not to promote it when the customer can make use of the benefit. And I believe thats 
what I t has done here.
Putting things right
Mr P was rightfully entitled to this benefit as he had paid upfront for it, and Im satisfied that 
he wouldve taken it up if offered. Therefore, to put things right Ageas should pay him the 
remainder of the salvage money it received £299 and it should pay him £300 for the 
inconvenience and upset it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr P the remainder of the salvage money - £299. It should add 8% simple 
interest to this from the date the car was sold until the money is paid to Mr PPay Mr P £300 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. Ageas must give Mr P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman