DRN-3825196
The complaint
Ms L complains about a loan she is a guarantor for, which was provided by Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (Trusttwo). She complains about the level of service she 
received when she wanted to settle the loan early.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L was a guarantor for a loan and when the borrower was unable to make payments, 
Trusttwo contacted her for payment in line with the terms of the agreement. 
Ms L settled the loan in February 2021 but she complained about the level of service 
provided by Trusttwo leading up to that point. 
She has raised a number of complaint points including but not limited to:
- Receiving incorrect information regarding the amount to settle the loan in full;
- Trusttwo failed to call her back as advised;
- The account was passed to a third party debt management company and she was 
given conflicting information as to whether the account could be returned to Trusttwo;
- Trusttwo failed to apply a rebate amount for settling the loan early;
- She had many conversations with Trusttwo to resolve the issues which meant she 
had to take time of work. This caused her stress, upset and a loss of earnings.  
Trusttwo accept they initially told Ms L the incorrect amount to settle the loan. They also 
accept they didnt call her back when agreed. As Trusttwo accept these failings, I dont need 
to make a finding on these points. 
Where there are failings by a financial business and detriment has been caused to the 
consumer, I expect them to put things right. In this case, Trusttwo agreed to accept a 
reduced amount to settle the agreement in full and also offered £50 compensation. However 
Ms L doesnt believe this is enough given the overall level of service she received and the 
trouble and upset caused. 
So in this decision, Ive considered based on the failings of Trusttwo, whether have they 
done enough to put things right. Having done so, I believe they have, I will explain why.
Based on the information presented to me, when the incorrect settlement figure (£1,923) 
was provided, the correct amount was communicated to Ms L on the same day. So I find the 
error was corrected promptly thereby minimising the impact. But I can understand Ms Ls 
frustration about receiving conflicting information.  
Having read the settlement quotation, Im satisfied it included the outstanding balance to pay 
(£3,348) and it included an early rebate amount (£708), meaning Ms L needed to pay around 
£2,600 to settle the loan. So I dont agree with Ms Ls comments that she didnt receive a 
rebate in settling the loan early. 
Even though Trusttwo was entitled to around £2,600 to settle the loan, they agreed to accept 
a reduced payment of £1,923 (the amount incorrectly told to Ms L). I note there is nothing in 
the terms to say Trusttwo must accept a reduced amount but as theyve explained, they did 
so due to their errors and the impact on Ms L. This meant Ms L paid around £700 less to 
settle the loan than what she was contractually obliged to pay. I consider that to be a 
considerable amount. They also agreed to pay £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. On that basis, I find Trusttwos resolution to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ive also thought about the other service related issues Ms L complained about such as the 
failed call-backs, being given conflicting information as to whether the account could be 
returned from the third party debt company, etc. I accept the level of service provided by 
Trusttwo shouldve been better and based on the number of calls and emails from Ms L to 
them, it was clear the situation was causing her upset and worry. However given the 
significantly reduced amount to settle the loan and the offer of £50 compensation, Im 
satisfied Trusttwo has done enough to put things right. So I wont be asking them to 
compensate Ms L for the days she had taken off work or to increase their overall 
compensation amount. 
I understand Ms L will be disappointed by my outcome but I hope she accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo should pay 
£50 compensation to Ms L for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman