DRN-3029816
The complaint
Mr W complains Coventry Building Societys approach to strong customer authentication 
means that his internet accounts are no longer truly internet accounts. He says that 
means there are times when he wont be able to use his accounts when he should be able 
to.
What happened
Mr W has two online savings accounts with Coventry Building Society  one of which he 
opened in 2013 and the other of which he opened in 2020. He can only withdraw money 
from these accounts by transferring to another account with Coventry Building Society  in 
other words, an internal transfer  or to a nominated account in his name. One account 
allows withdrawals at any time without notice, charge or loss of interest. The other account 
only allows two withdrawals a year without charge or loss of interest. He also has a current 
account with another bank who allow him to authenticate using a token. Hes told us that he 
doesnt have a mobile phone.
In April 2019 Coventry Building Society says it began to inform its customers of changes it 
would be making to the way they logged into and used its online services. Shortly afterwards 
Coventry Building Society says it wrote to Mr W asking him for his mobile number as it didnt 
have one for him on file. Mr W says he replied to Coventry Building Society in May 2019 
saying that he couldnt provide it with a mobile number as he did not have, nor want, a 
mobile phone. He says he asked Coventry Building Society how it was going to ensure 
customers could still operate their accounts as internet accounts and made a number of 
observations and suggestions.
In February 2020 Coventry Building Society says it wrote to Mr W giving more details of the 
new way customers would need to log into their account explaining that it was introducing 
these changes in line with new regulations  its sent an example of the letter it says it sent. 
In the letter Coventry Building Society said it needed a Mr W to provide a home or mobile 
number to which an automated call could be placed when he logged in or used one of his 
accounts so it could confirm that its him. Coventry Building Society said that if it didnt have 
a home or mobile number for Mr W then he wouldnt be able to log into his account in the 
future. Coventry Building Society says it made the changes in June 2020.
In November 2020 Mr W complained to Coventry Building Society saying that he now 
needed to enter a code from his landline at home in order to access his accounts online. He 
said that this wasnt a viable method of authenticating online accounts because it would only 
work when he was at home. He said that he didnt have a mobile phone and that mobile 
phones werent in any event a viable way of authenticating in many situations for many 
different reasons. He asked Coventry Building Society to let him know what methods of 
authentication were or would become available to him to allow him to authenticate when, for 
example, travelling.
Coventry Building Society investigated Mr Ws complaint and said that it had looked into a 
number of different options and had decided that receiving a call rather than a text message 
was a better and more secure option for its customers. Coventry Building Society said that 
other solutions, for example, having a card reader werent an option as they didnt work with 
the cards it issued to its members. And the majority of its members didnt want to use a 
separate security token to authenticate as these could be easily lost or misplaced. Finally, 
Coventry Building Society said that it had provided the option of using a landline as well as a 
mobile and that there wasnt anything further it could or needed to provide.
Mr W wasnt happy with Coventry Building Societys response and, in particular, the fact that 
it had mentioned that it had provided a landline option given that hed already said why this 
wouldnt work for him most of the time. So, he complained to us. He said that hed opened 
internet based accounts with Coventry Building Society because he needs to be able to 
use them all over the world, particularly when he travels. He said that having to rely on his 
landline or a mobile phone meant his accounts were no longer internet based accounts. He 
also gave lots of reasons why a mobile phone doesnt work as an authentication solution.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
they thought Coventry Building Society had provided viable alternatives to a mobile phone  
namely an automated call to a landline. Our investigator said that Mr Ws account was a 
savings account, and not an account out of which he could make card payments, set up 
standing orders, direct debits or bill payments. In the circumstances, they didnt think the 
Payment Service Regulations applied or guidance that the FCA had published on strong 
customer authentication. They also took into account the fact that Mr W rarely accessed his 
account. Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings, saying that unless and until 
Coventry Building Society provided an alternative that worked when its customers had 
internet access only then there would be times when he wouldnt be able to access his 
accounts online. For example, when travelling abroad. He didnt think how hed used the 
accounts in the past was relevant either. So, I was asked to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coventry Building Society told Mr W in April 2019 and February 2020 that it was making 
changes to the way customers logged into and used its online services in line with new 
regulations. The new regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  
required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in 
certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations 
which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so, or firms who didnt have to make changes from changing their processes.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that the 
breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Coventry Building Society has gone about those checks  and the 
alternative ways of authenticating it offers (none of which Mr W says allow him to continue to 
use his accounts as internet accounts  is at the heart of this complaint.
Coventry Building Societys approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Coventry Building Society explained to Mr W in May 2019 and February 2020 that it would 
be making changes to the way its customers logged into and used its online services - it 
explained that these changes were in line with new regulations. Coventry Building Society 
told Mr W that hed need to supply a home number or a mobile number  as it needed a 
number to make an automated call to  and that he wouldnt be able to log into his account 
or uses it online services in the future if he didnt do so.
Coventry Building Society has told us that Mr W has a telephone password for both accounts 
that he can use if he wants to call up and, for example, check his balance. Coventry Building 
Society has told us that he can do this whenever he wants. In addition, Coventry Building 
Society has told us that although the accounts are online accounts, his telephone password 
can, for example, be used to enable a withdrawal via the telephone if there was an urgent 
need. Im satisfied that this is the case and that Mr W could, for example, withdraw money 
from his accounts and ask for the money to be transferred to the current account he has with 
another bank who allow him to authenticate using a token. Mr W would have to make sure 
that hed set this up as his nominated account assuming it isnt already. I accept that he 
would need access to a telephone in order to do this  whether that be a landline phone, 
mobile phone or an internet phone.Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has a number of internet accounts. Hes also told us that he 
opened these accounts because its important to him that hes able to manage his finances 
over the internet  that, according to Mr W, is what an internet account should by 
definition allow you to do. Hes given us lots of reasons why people generally, including 
himself, like to open internet accounts. For example, the convenience of being able to 
manage your finances online compared to the inconvenience of having to call your bank or 
visit a branch (particularly during Covid and in light too of the number of branches that have 
closed over the past few years and continue to close). But those are simply examples  his 
fundamental point is that its important that internet accounts can be managed over the 
internet with only access to the internet and that unless and until that option is available 
there will be scenarios when payments transactions will be rejected, blocked or interrupted  
something the EBA has warned against. 
Mr W has also told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and hes explained why even if 
he did it wouldnt help him manage his finances. He makes a lot of good points. Hes also 
told us that he owns a computer  this is the device he uses when hes at home  and that 
the computer he owns at the moment is a laptop. And finally, hes told us why in the past 
hes needed to manage his finances whilst away from home, and why this will be particularly 
important to him in the years to come.
Its clear from what Mr W has told us that his complaint about Coventry Building Societys 
approach to strong customer authentication is that it simply doesnt allow him to manage his 
finances when hes travelling. Hes able to log onto his account and use Coventry Building 
Societys online services when hes at home, as he has a landline to which the automated 
call can be made, but as he rightly points out this only works when hes at home and not 
whenever he has access to the internet. In the circumstances, I can see why Mr W says that 
his internet account is no longer operating like an internet account because of the way 
Coventry Building Society has approached strong customer authentication.
Mr W isnt complaining about Coventry Building Societys decision to update its processes in 
line with strong customer authentication - this is an important measure designed to combat 
fraud. And hes not complaining about having to complete additional checks either. He 
agrees that strong customer authentication is an important measure designed to combat 
fraud. Im satisfied that the only reason why Mr W complained was because he didnt feel 
Coventry Building Society had offered a method of authenticating that would allow him to 
continue to operate his accounts as internet accounts. He wouldnt have complained had 
Coventry Building Society, for example, offered him the option of authenticating using a card 
reader or a token. Coventry Building Society has, however, told Mr W (rightly or wrongly) 
that the cards it issues arent compatible with a card reader and that the majority of its 
members didnt want to use a separate security token to authenticate as these could be 
easily lost or misplaced. In other words, that these arent options it plans to offer.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Coventry Building Society have done more for Mr W?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA has 
published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Coventry 
Building Society should do more for Mr W and whether or not its actions are fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Theres an 
argument that the Payment Services Regulations and the guidance the FCA has published 
dont apply to Mr Ws accounts. Theyre both savings accounts, although one allows for 
unlimited withdrawals without having to give notice, albeit to a nominated account only. So, 
Ive taken that into account. Ive also taken into account the fact that Coventry Building 
Society has said it made changes to the way their customers log on and use its online 
services because of the Payment Services Regulations. And finally Ive taken into account 
what Mr W says, namely that if a business decides to implement strong customer 
authentication  or change its processes in line with strong customer authentication  then it 
has to follow the FCAs guidance and / or the spirit behind it including thinking about what 
the EBA has said on ensuring payment transactions arent rejected, blocked or interrupted.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Coventry 
Building Society to make changes to its processes following the introduction of strong 
customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud  to the extent that 
it needed to. Im very confident Mr W doesnt think so either. The main issue I have to decide 
is whether or not Coventry Building Society has offered Mr W a viable alternative to use 
when hes not at home  given that he wont be able to rely on his landline when hes not at 
home  and, in particular when hes travelling abroad. Having done so, and having taken 
everything else into account, I also have to decide whether whats happened here is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances or not. So thats what Im now going to do.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. I can see why the 
FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns a mobile phone, nor is 
everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these groups arent overlooked 
otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online banking or make online payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the only groups potentially 
affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be problematic, depending on the 
solution adopted. Mr W, given his background, is perhaps more knowledgeable than many 
when it comes to potential pitfalls here and has explained in detail potential problems that 
consumers might have in the future  particularly when travelling abroad. I agree with Mr W 
that this might well be an issue that will cause problems in the future. But I also have to 
remember that I am looking at this individual complaint and have to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr W has two accounts with Coventry Building Society. Theyre both savings accounts, 
although one allows for unlimited withdrawals without having to give notice, albeit to a 
nominated account only. As our investigator pointed out, neither of them are accounts out of 
which he can make card payments, set up standing orders, direct debits or bill payments.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any examples of when hes been unable to log onto or 
manage his savings accounts  he can still do so when hes at home. I can also see that he 
logged into or managed these accounts very infrequently in the past. Hes only ever made 
three withdrawals, for example, one of which was to move money from one of his savings 
accounts into the other. Mr W has said to us that the way hes operated his accounts in the 
past isnt relevant  he says the only thing thats relevant is how he wants to operate his 
accounts. I agree with Mr W to a degree  its clear hes likely to travel abroad far more and 
for long periods of time in the years to come. So, what hes done in the past is likely to be 
less relevant. I do, however, think I can and should take into account the type of account he 
has, and how it can be used. In this case, as Ive said, he has a savings account although 
one from which he can withdraw money from wherever he wants. And I also think I can and 
should take into account how hes used the account in the past and how hes likely to do so 
in the future  including how that might change. Mr W has said that the type of account 
shouldnt matter, and that if a business has decided to make changes to its processes 
because of strong customer authentication then it has to follow the FCAs guidance bearing 
in mind what the EBA has said about not rejecting, blocking or interrupting payments. I can 
see what Mr W is saying here, but I do also have to bear in mind that the Payment Services 
Regulations and the FCAs guidance both talk about payment service providers and 
payment accounts. More importantly, I also have to decide this case based on whats fair 
and reasonable.In this case, having taken the type of accounts Mr W has, the extent to which hes likely to 
need to access them at short notice in the future and the fact that he has a telephone 
password which he could use to make withdrawals to his current account should he need to 
access his funds urgently, I dont think I can say that Coventry Building Society has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. I should add that I accept Coventry Building Society has 
considered a number of authentication options, some of which dont work because of its 
systems and some of which its members didnt want, and that it has factored this analysis 
into its decision making process. In short, much as I can see where Mr W is coming from, 
and much as Im grateful for his comments and insight, I dont think it would be right to 
uphold this particular complaint. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman