DRN-2713109
The complaint
Mr D complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding account.
What happened
Mr D opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in January 2015.
Funding Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return
for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mr Ds complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a
way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by
way of a secondary market.
Mr D raised a complaint with Funding Circle about a new transfer payment it was introducing
in December 2019. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. Although Mr D wasnt opposed to the transfer payment applying to new loans on
the platform, he didnt think it was fair for Funding Circle to apply it retrospectively to existing
loans. He also felt he hadnt been given sufficient notice to sell his existing loans before the
transfer payment was introduced. He said he was now left with no choice but to wait until all
his loans had been repaid in order to avoid paying the transfer payment.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said:
The transfer payment isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a 
payment made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans.
So Mr D could access his funds whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched 
off his lending facility and withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Ds consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
Mr D didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
When agreeing to lend money to a business or individual through crowdfunding, an 
investor agrees and commits to lend this money for a set term. Funding Circle had 
put in place a secondary market to allow investors an opportunity to withdraw funds 
before this set term, but there is no regulatory requirement to have this facility 
available.
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new transfer payment, and it had given Mr D enough notice of this.
Ultimately, Mr D didnt have to sell his loan parts if he didnt want to incur the transfer 
payment.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said having the option to sell on a secondary
market in the short term and without incurring a fee was a main consideration when deciding
to invest with Funding Circle. He said one months notice was not long enough to allow him
to sell his loan parts without incurring the transfer payment as it was taking up to three
months to sell on the secondary market at the time. He felt hed become trapped as an 
investor, forced to pay a fee he never agreed to. As a result, he would incur a considerable
amount of financial loss would he ever need to access a large amount of his funds in the
short term.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. In it I said:
the regulatory and legal framework
Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the
FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are PRIN 2.1.1R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are COBS 2.1.1R (1)
which says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
And COBS 4.2.1R (1) which says:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and 
not misleading.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my provisional
decision.
introducing the transfer payment
Funding Circle sent Mr D an email in October 2019 explaining it was introducing the transferpayment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also explained that Funding
Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we no 
longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and it is common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr D doesnt think
it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I understand that Mr D feels quite strongly that the transfer payment Funding Circle has
introduced is a fee, which is to his detriment if he ever chooses to sell his loan parts on the
secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer payment is a fee. Instead Id
consider it to be a repricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from
the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual
loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers.
In June 2019 the FCA published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the
FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should re-price
loans. It implemented this way of introducing new rules into COBS which came into force in
December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of the
P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Ds case, Funding Circle introduced a transfer payment which only applied when
facilitating an exit for investors by way of selling their loan parts on the secondary market,
prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a regulatory requirement to
ensure the price offered is fair and appropriate. Its also apparent from the timing of Funding
Circles decision to update its terms, that it likely did so to adhere to the new rules introduced
in COBS.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold in
this way. So in order to determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to
understand what considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding it considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment would have on both the buyer and 
seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both Mr Ds submissions and from what
Funding Circle has told us, that sales queues on the secondary market were increasing and
it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts in this way.
And the introduction of the transfer payment clearly intended to combat these queues and to
reduce the time investors must wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, results published to
the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in loan parts sale
requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there was clearly a
shift in investors perceived risk and appetite to invest. And this uncertainty in the market is
an important consideration for Funding Circle when re-pricing loan parts on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are
fair and appropriate not only to investors selling, but also to the investors who intend to
purchase on the secondary market. So it follows that if the loan parts are perceived to be
riskier due to overall market conditions, then Funding Circle must ensure that the price
offered reflects this.
Its also important to consider that Mr D doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained, the
transfer payment is only triggered if Mr D decides to exit from his investment before the
maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.Furthermore, theres no guarantee that loan parts will sell on the secondary market 
something which Funding Circle makes clear in its terms and conditions:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so."
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied the introduction of the transfer payment
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied Funding Circle appropriately
considered the impact this would have on Mr D before implementing the changes; it gave Mr
D reasonable notice and he has the option to keep his investments without incurring the
transfer payment.
Responses to my provisional findings
Funding Circle accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments. Mr D didnt 
accept my provisional findings. In summary he said:
Investors dont invest for a specific period of time, only for a set amount.
Loans are entirely at the discretion of Funding Circle both in terms of which 
businesses money is lent to and for how long. So access to the secondary market 
was a vital consideration for him.
Whether the transfer payment is a fee or a repricing instrument, the net effect is to 
reduce the overall return on his investment.
Funding Circle failed to treat customers fairly as the transfer fee directly discriminates 
against existing investors. 
The variation clause Funding Circle relied on to introduce the changes didnt give it 
authority to do so. This is because the secondary market was an existing facility and 
the fee cant be defined as a product or service. 
Its disingenuous for Funding Circle to claim this transfer payment brought it in-line 
with its competitors, as other platforms made all such fees clear from the outset and 
did not apply them retrospectively.
He raised concerns about his freedom to exit if he didnt accept the changes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D feels strongly about his complaint. And I can confirm Ive read and 
considered his response to my provisional decision carefully. But having done so, Ive not
been persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. I hope Mr D wont take it as a
discourtesy that Ive not addressed every point or question hes raised in detail. Ive
focussed on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint, in order for me to
decide whether Funding Circle acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it introduced 
the changes. I remain of the view that, on balance, Funding Circle appropriately
considered the impact that the changes would have on Mr D before implementing them, and 
it was fair and reasonable for it to do so. 
Mr Ds point regarding investing for a set amount and not a specific time isnt strictly correct. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions explain:
8.8 Each Loan Contract is governed by the Loan Conditions (and includes the Key 
Contract Terms). When a Loan is successfully completed, a separate Loan Contract is automatically formed between each Investor that lends a Loan or Loan Part and 
the relevant Borrower. 
This means that when investors invest in loans, they enter into individual loan contracts 
which in-turn have individual loan conditions, such as the length of the loan term. As such, 
when Mr D invests in an individual loan, he agrees to lend to that borrower for a set term and 
must do so unless he is able to sell his loan part early. Whilst I dont dispute that having the 
ability to try and sell his funds by way of the secondary market was a main consideration for 
him investing, its clear that this option remained open to him at the time of complaining  
albeit that the transfer payment would apply. 
I also understand Mr D has raised concerns about his freedom to exit his contract with
Funding Circle having not accepted the changes. Funding Circles terms and conditions 
before explain:
16.3 Subject to clause 17.2, if you do not agree with any changes that we make to
these Investor Terms and Conditions you are able to close your Investor Account at
any time by contacting usBy continuing to access and use the Funding Circle
Platform after any changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions, you accept and
agree to be bound by the updated Investor Terms and Conditions.
16.4 If you notify us you wish to close your Investor Account but have Loan Parts
outstanding, you authorise us to immediately transfer these to other Investors by
selling them...
Its clear from these that Mr D was able to exit the contract if he didnt agree with the
changes. But as he had outstanding loan parts, he had to first sell these to other investors in
order to exit. Whilst I appreciate that, in doing so, the transfer payment would apply, I dont
think this prevents him from being able to exit. Ive already explained why introducing
the transfer payment was fair and reasonable in my provisional findings and I find no reason 
to depart from those findings. 
Ultimately, Mr D had agreed to lend money to borrowers for a set term and did so with the 
understanding that, if he was unable to sell on the secondary market, hed likely have to wait 
until the loans were fully repaid in order to access all of his investment. So it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for Funding Circle to allow Mr D to exit without first selling his loan parts to 
other investors.
I appreciate that Mr D has invested a substantial amount of money and so I understand the 
transfer payment would result in a large reduction to his overall return. However, as 
mentioned in my provisional findings, he doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary 
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. Its true that this would potentially 
mean having his money invested for the full term of the loans hes already invested in. But 
this was what he actually agreed to do when investing and there was never a guarantee that 
he could sell his loan parts early on the secondary market. 
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Funding Circles actions were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Funding Circle Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 Ben Waites
Ombudsman