DRN-2955737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) unfairly avoided their Farm Select commercial insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, reference to NFU will include anything done by its agent. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs F took out a number of policies with NFU through its agent. A 
few months later Mr and Mrs F claimed on one of their policies. NFU carried out some 
validation checks which showed Mr and Mrs F had previously had an insurance policy 
avoided (which means cancelled back to the start as though it didnt exist). NFU said it 
wouldnt have provided cover if it had known about their previously avoided policy and so 
avoided the new policies Mr and Mrs F had taken out. 
NFU kept the premiums Mr and Mrs F had paid for the policies as it thought they had 
deliberately or recklessly provided the incorrect information when buying the policy. It said 
Mr and Mrs F had amended an email from their previous insurer before forwarding it to 
NFUs loss adjuster, which it thought showed they were aware they should have declared 
the avoidance. NFU also said Mr and Mrs F declared their renewal date as 12 February 
2020. However, it said that wasnt correct, as the previous policy had been avoided, and this 
question would have given Mr and Mrs F another opportunity to mention that there wasnt a 
policy in place due to the avoidance. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair and complained. They said NFUs agent hadnt asked 
if theyd ever had a policy avoided when he sold the policy. However, they said they had told 
him about some County Court Judgments (CCJs) and the avoided policy and hed said the 
underwriters didnt have an issue with it. Mr and Mrs F also said that the insurance 
documents asked whether they had previously had a policy voided and this was different to 
a policy being avoided. 
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to us. They said theyd been told they didnt need to 
tell future insurers about the policy because it had been avoided and not voided. Mrs F 
explained the impact of NFU avoiding the policy and said she might have become confused 
by the terminology as she suffers from confusion and memory loss. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
didnt think Mr and Mrs F had made a fair presentation of the risk when buying the policy and 
thought it was fair and reasonable for NFU to say they had done so deliberately or 
recklessly. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said the agent 
had filled in the Fact Find rather than them and they also explained the difficult 
circumstances surrounding Mrs F at the time of buying the policy which meant she couldnt 
be expected to check documents that NFU sent through after the sale. Mr and Mrs F said 
they had told the agent that one policy had been avoided due to CCJs and thats why they 
had sent the agent the follow up email about them. Mr and Mrs F also said theyd amended 
the email because the previous policy had been avoided and not voided, so they removed 
the information they thought was incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) Mr and Mrs F had a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk when buying their policy. And for NFU to take any action it needs to 
show that Mr and Mrs F didnt do that and that they made whats known as a qualifying 
breach. To demonstrate a qualifying breach NFU would need to show that if Mr and Mrs F 
had made a fair presentation of the risk it would have either not offered them the policy or 
would have done so on different terms.
The sale of the policy took place in person and there isnt a recording of the conversation. 
Ive therefore had to consider what I think most likely happened and whether Mr and Mrs F 
told NFU about their previously avoided policy. 
The Fact Find form completed by NFUs agent asked whether Mr and Mrs F had ever had a 
policy cancelled or declared void (as though it had never existed). The No box next to this 
question is ticked. I think this indicates that the agent asked the question and Mr and Mrs F 
answered no. 
Mr and Mrs F said they told the agent about both the CCJs and the avoided policy and he 
said the underwriters didnt have an issue with it.
I can see from emails provided by NFU that NFUs agent became aware of the CCJs after 
doing a credit check before setting up the policy. The emails indicate that the agent wasnt 
aware of the CCJs and contacted Mr and Mrs F to ask them for more information. So, I think 
that suggests that Mr and Mrs F hadnt let the agent know about the CCJs and previous 
avoidance. 
Mr and Mrs F have pointed out that NFU did checks on them before setting up the policy. 
But this was a soft check and I havent seen anything to indicate that the initial checks 
showed that theyd had a previous policy avoided. 
 
However, even if NFUs agent didnt ask the question, NFU then sent Mr and Mrs F a copy 
of the Insurance Documents to check and correct if needed. The Statement of Insurance 
says:
You have told us the following about the business, everyone directly connected 
with the ownership or management of the business and everyone insured under 
this policy:
 No- one has ever had any insurance refused, cancelled, declared void (as 
though it never existed), renewal declined or special terms or conditions imposed 
by an insurer.
I think Mr and Mrs F had an opportunity to correct this information if they needed to, but I 
havent seen anything to indicate that they let NFU know theyd had a policy avoided. I 
understand Mrs F was going through a difficult time when the documents were sent to her 
and Mr F for checking. However, she and Mr F had a duty to ensure they made a fair 
presentation of the risk.I have considered Mr and Mrs Fs point that the document refers to a policy being declared 
void rather than avoided, but I think the wording clarifies that reference to a policy being 
void means as though it never existed. So, I think Mr and Mrs F should reasonably have 
known they needed to declare their avoided policy. 
As Mr and Mrs F had previously had a policy avoided, I dont think they made a fair 
presentation of the risk when buying the policy. NFU has provided information to show it 
wouldnt have sold the policy, if Mr and Mrs F had provided the correct information. So, I 
think they made a qualifying breach.
A qualifying breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. The Act
says that a qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured knew that it was in
breach of the duty of fair presentation or did not care whether or not it was in breach of that
duty.
NFU believe that Mr and Mrs Fs breach was deliberate or reckless, as they knew theyd had 
a policy avoided and think they amended an email from their previous insurer to hide that 
theyd had a policy avoided. Ive seen copies of the original email and the one that was sent 
to NFUs loss adjuster. The emails have the same date and time on them. The email which 
Mr and Mrs F forwarded to NFUs loss adjuster said: the policy which was lapsed from 
renewal was the motor insurance policy. However, the original email said In respect of 
the policy that was voided this was your farm combined the other policy which was lapsed 
from renewal was the motor insurance policy
I appreciate this email was sent after the policy was taken out and Mr and Mrs F said they 
amended it because they thought the information contained in the email was wrong. 
However, I think its fair and reasonable for NFU to say this indicates that Mr and Mrs F 
knew theyd had a policy avoided previously and didnt want NFU to know about it. If Mr and 
Mrs F knew theyd declared their avoided policy to the agent and thought NFU had agreed to 
cover them, I dont think its likely they would have tried to hide this information from NFU. As 
such, I think it was fair and reasonable for NFU to say the qualifying breach was deliberate 
or reckless.
Under the Act, the remedy for a qualifying breach that is deliberate or reckless is to avoid the
policy and keep the premium. This is what NFU has done, so Im not going to interfere with
its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman