DRN-4201971
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that WPS ADVISORY Ltd unreasonably delayed giving her advice 
about whether to transfer the benefits from her former employers occupational pension 
defined benefit (DB) scheme to an alternative pension arrangement. Mrs M believes she 
has lost out as a result.
What happened
Mrs M was a deferred member of her previous employers DB scheme. On 
11 February 2022 the scheme administrators prepared a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) quote of around £127,500. That quote was guaranteed until 10 May 2022. On 
17 February 2022 WPS wrote to Mrs M with an offer to give advice, funded by her employer, 
concerning her options in respect of accessing her DB scheme funds.
On 9 March 2022 Mrs M phoned WPS to make a telephone appointment to speak with an 
adviser. WPS didn't have any appointments available until May 2022. In a later phone call 
Mrs M told WPS shed been unable to receive a state pension forecast as that wouldn't be 
available until after her initial appointment. WPS sent Mrs M a welcome pack and asked her 
to complete a questionnaire and return it no later than seven working days before the 
scheduled appointment. Mrs M did so. 
Mrs M spoke with WPS adviser (the first adviser) on 6 May 2022. Amongst other things she 
explained she wasnt reliant on the income from the DB scheme as she had other savings 
and pension provision. She said she was concerned that, if she were to die, her husband 
would only receive 50% of her DB pension entitlement. She was considering transferring the 
pension to her existing self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The first adviser said that as 
Mrs M didnt need to access her DB funds she could leave it where it was without putting it at 
risk. But if Mrs M did choose to transfer, WPS may charge her additional fees. The first 
adviser said that if he were to make a recommendation to transfer then it would be to a 
specific named personal pension provider as it would charge lower fees than Mrs Ms SIPP 
But additional fees might be payable if she wanted to transfer elsewhere. The first adviser 
agreed to find out how much the charges would be to arrange a transfer to the SIPP and 
whether or not he could recommend it. 
Mrs M emailed WPS two days later. She said her preference was to transfer the DB funds to 
her SIPP. The first adviser sent Mrs M a questionnaire concerning her attitude to investment 
risk. He then sent Mrs M a fee schedule. That said there would be a fee of £1,500 for 
researching an off panel product. It added that WPS could charge a fee of £1,250 a year if 
Mrs M chose to take its ongoing advice service but that was optional. Mrs M replied as she 
wanted to know if the DB scheme would also charge fees for transferring out of it. She said 
she didnt want or need WPS ongoing advice service. She also said she understood WPS 
role was to provide regulated advice, paid for by her former employer. And, once WPS had 
given that advice it was up to her what she did with the funds. 
Mrs M spoke again with the first adviser. He said he was satisfied that Mrs M had sufficient 
capacity for loss to recommend that a transfer go ahead. He said the guarantee date from 
the CETV quote had expired and Mrs M would need to request a new one. They discussed 
the fees for WPS doing due diligence research on Mrs Ms SIPP. Mrs M said she didn't 
understand why she would have to pay that fee. 
Around a week later Mrs M spoke with the first adviser again. He asked Mrs M questions 
about the charges her current SIPP provider applied. But Mrs M thought his question related 
to WPS charges. He also sought some further information about Mrs Ms attitude to risk.
On 25 May 2022 the first adviser sent Mrs M an email which said she wasn't comfortable 
with any level of investment risk. 
On 26 July 2022, Mrs M complained about WPS service. She said her intention had always 
been to transfer the DB funds to her existing SIPP.
On 5 August 2022 WPS sent Mrs M a fee schedule that said it would charge her £1,000 
(plus VAT) for its advice including the initial advice process. A week later the first adviser 
emailed Mrs M. He said his role wasnt simply to do what Mrs M wanted him to do. And that 
the regulator required WPS to consider if the destination of the transferred funds was 
suitable. He said WPS has researched and created a panel of investment products that it 
recommends to clients. If Mrs M wanted to use one of WPS recommended product 
providers there would be no extra charge. But, if she wished to invest in an alternative 
product WPS will charge an additional fee for reviewing that product. He said that was 
because the economies of scale are lost and WPS incurs extra costs. So, if Mrs M wanted 
to use her own SIPP then she would need to agree to WPS fee. The adviser also set out an 
amended risk profile which defined Mrs Ms risk as moderately adventurous.
Mrs M emailed WPS. Amongst other things she said:
Why had WPS told her it would charge for its initial advice process when her former 
employer was paying for WPS service?
Why did it take WPS until 6 May 2022 to arrange the initial advice appointment? She 
said the CETV quote had fallen by around £12,000 since expiring.
She had initially provided WPS with a large amount of information which should have 
allowed it to complete its advice. 
She saw little benefit in WPS carrying out due diligence on her SIPP. 
The adviser hadn't answered her question about whether the DB scheme would 
charge her a fee but he had only replied concerning WPS fee.
She wasnt required to follow WPS advice and the decision about where to transfer 
her funds to was her own. 
The first advisers email saying she couldn't tolerate any investment risk was clearly 
wrong. 
The adviser hadn't explained whether transferring to the named personal pension 
provider would achieve her principal objective of avoiding a loss of benefit for her 
husband if she were to die before him. 
As the first adviser was off work because of illness a second adviser took over in September 
2022. He agreed a transfer was suitable but said WPS would charge Mrs M for its due 
diligence work if she wanted to transfer to her SIPP. The second adviser told Mrs M that it 
wouldn't progress a transfer if she didnt agree with its advice. Mrs M said there was no 
way she would pay WPS a fee for completing due diligence on her SIPP. The second 
adviser answered some of Mrs Ms questions about the named personal pension provider. 
Mrs M said she didnt want another pension pot as she already had a number of pensions. 
She agreed to call the second adviser back and tell him what she wished to do. The second adviser rang Mrs M; he said that as she hadn't agreed to pay its fee it would end the advice 
process. Mrs M emailed WPS and said that if it agreed to honour the original CETV sum 
then she would pay its fee for due diligence on her SIPP. 
On 24 October 2022 WPS replied to Mrs Ms complaint points. Amongst other things it said 
Mrs M had delayed the start of the process. WPS couldn't make a recommendation without 
considering the receiving scheme. It required a minimum of 12 weeks to complete the advice 
process. As Mrs M hadn't agreed to pay its fees it couldn't complete the process before the 
transfer value expired. 
Mrs M replied. In short she said she hadn't received the CETV until 21 February 2022 and 
she had responded to WPS information request within the timeframe it gave her. It had 
taken WPS over eight weeks to arrange the initial appointment. The first advisers failure to 
properly explain things had caused a delay. For example he hadn't said that transferring to 
the named personal pension provider would be equivalent to a transfer to her SIPP. She 
added that WPS fee information was confusing. 
WPS wrote to Mrs M again. It offered her £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
by its delay in arranging the initial appointment. But it said it didn't think it could have 
completed the advice process before the initial CETV had expired as Mrs M only wanted to 
transfer to her SIPP and didnt want to pay WPS fees for the extra work that would be 
involved. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didn't 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He noted that Mrs M hadn't yet transferred out of her DB scheme. 
He said WPS was responsible for some delays. But he thought its offer of £100 
compensation was reasonable to address those. He said that Mrs M didnt wish to pay WPS 
fees and so it was unlikely it could have completed the advice process before the CETV 
expired. 
Mrs M didn't agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint so it's been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Mrs Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of WPS' actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to direct WPS to 
take additional action for broadly similar reasons to those given by our Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that WPS should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Mrs Ms best interests.
Should WPS have completed the advice process within the original CETV guarantee date?
Mrs M said she received the CETV quote around 17 February 2022. She asked WPS for 
advice around three weeks later on 9 March 2022. So, by the time she contacted WPS for 
advice it had around nine weeks until the CETV expired. In its response to Mrs Ms 
complaint WPS said it requires around 12 weeks to complete its advice process. Mrs M 
pointed out that it hadnt told her that previously. I accept thats the case. And it certainly 
would have helped if, at the outset, WPS had explained the likely timescales involved and 
that it couldn't guarantee it would meet the CETV expiry date. But I dont think it did so.
Further, when Mrs M called to make an appointment, the earliest date it could offer her was 
two months away and only days before the CETV would expire. WPS has acknowledged 
that delay was too long. So I've gone on to think about whats likely to have happened if it 
had arranged the appointment sooner.
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) from other pension products available on the open market. And, as 
I've said above, the regulators guidance is that the starting point for advising firms like WPS 
is that a transfer will not be suitable for most people. So it should only recommend a transfer 
where there is evidence which clearly demonstrates it is in a customers best interests.
There are typically a number of stages involved in considering a DB transfer. As well as 
gathering information from Mrs M, the regulator required WPS to obtain an appropriate pension transfer analysis report (APTA) and to analyse Mrs Ms needs and objectives in 
retirement. The regulator also required WPS to make an assessment and suitable 
recommendation for the underlying investments where the DB funds were to be transferred 
to.
In this case Mrs M said her preferred destination was her existing SIPP. But the fact that 
Mrs M was happy with her SIPP as an investment vehicle didnt mean WPS could just 
accept her views on that. WPS explained that it had already researched a panel of pension 
providers. And it said it could most likely recommend the named personal pension provider 
as a suitable receiving scheme. If Mrs M accepted that option she wouldn't have to pay any 
further fees, as the cost was being borne by her former employer. But, if she insisted on a 
transfer to her SIPP, then WPS was required to do additional due diligence research into the 
SIPP to ensure it was suitable for her. And to complete that work, it would charge a fee. I 
think that was a reasonable explanation. However, Mrs M wasnt happy to pay WPS fee and 
complained. 
I've noted Mrs M later said there was no way she was going to pay WPS a fee for it to do 
due diligence on her SIPP. But she didnt have to pay that fee as she could have accepted 
the named personal pension provider that WPS mentioned as a destination for the 
transferred funds. But she didn't want to do that. In those circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for WPS to charge Mrs M for the extra work needed, which wouldn't be covered 
by its agreement with her former employer. And, as she apparently refused to pay WPS 
fees it said it couldnt continue with the process. I think that was a reasonable position for it 
to take. 
In coming to the conclusion above, I've noted that, from the outset, the first adviser told 
Mrs M that there might be extra charges for her to pay if the transfer went ahead. I think 
WPS could have been clearer about exactly what fees applied and why. And it certainly 
wasnt helpful that, at one point, it told Mrs M that its charge was for its initial advice, when, 
in fact the extra fee was for the additional due diligence work. 
But I think its likely that even if WPS had been clear from an early stage, Mrs M would have 
challenged the requirement to pay fees. I say that because, having listened to the calls 
between WPS and Mrs M, she seemed to believe that the destination of the transferred fees 
was her choice. And whilst it seems that she didnt understand why WPS would charge her a 
fee to research a product she already felt was suitable, Im satisfied that WPS did explain to 
her that the regulator required it to do the appropriate research and ensure her SIPP was a 
suitable vehicle before recommending a transfer. 
So, as WPS was required to assess the suitability of the proposed receiving scheme (which 
wasnt an investment vehicle it had already looked into) I think it was reasonable for it to 
charge a fee for the extra work that involved. But Mrs M was clearly resistant to that notion. 
Further, it wasnt the case that Mrs M could have arranged the transfer herself if she wanted 
to act against WPS advice. Thats because, in order for a transfer to go ahead its a 
regulatory requirement that Mrs M obtained a declaration from a suitably qualified financial 
adviser that she had received regulated advice concerning the transfer. But WPS couldnt 
have provided that declaration without doing the due diligence on her chosen SIPP. And 
WPS won't arrange a transfer on what's known as an insistent client basis if Mrs M had 
wanted to do so. That meant that, before a transfer could have gone ahead, Mrs M would 
have had to complete the advice process. And to do so she would have had to agree to pay 
WPS fee. I dont think, given what Ive said, Mrs M was likely to have accepted that she was required to pay WPS fee at an early stage. The other alternative would have been for Mrs M 
to engage another advising firm to provide the advice for her. But in those circumstances its 
likely shed have had to pay the advising firm a fee for all of the advice process and not 
simply the due diligence aspect of it, seeing as it wasnt the firm engaged to give advice by 
her former employer . 
So, I don't think that, even if WPS had arranged the initial process in a reasonable time 
frame it could have completed the advice process within the time available. For example, if it 
had arranged the first appointment within two weeks of Mrs M asking for it, that would only 
have left it around seven weeks to complete the entire process. And given the dispute over 
WPS fee I dont think that was likely to have happened. 
Further, even if it hadn't been for the fee dispute and any unreasonable delays I think its 
quite likely the original CETV would have expired before WPS had concluded its process. 
Thats because DB transfer advice is a heavily regulated process. It involves a number of 
steps. And only once WPS had gone through all the regulatory requirements can it make a 
personal recommendation to transfer. And most of the stages would require the involvement 
of WPS compliance team to ensure it wasnt falling foul of the regulators rules. So, while it 
might have seemed to Mrs M that this was a fairly straightforward process with an obvious 
outcome, that wouldnt have been WPS approach. Each of the DB transfer stages takes 
thought, careful analysis and awareness of the regulatory landscape. And all these things 
take time.
Its certainly not unheard of that even when advising firms like WPS provide advice in a 
timely manner without delay, the CETV guarantee dates might be missed. And, as Ive said, 
in this case, the CETV only had two months left at the point that Mrs M asked WPS for 
advice. So, it was always likely to be tight for WPS to be able to complete the advice process 
before the CETV expiry date. That was made all the more difficult once there was a fee 
dispute to be dealt with. There would also have been extra work involved in WPS carrying 
out the necessary due diligence work on Mrs Ms SIPP. On balance, I think the time involved 
in resolving those issues was likely to have always meant that the CETV would have expired 
before WPS could have completed the advice process. So I don't think it was responsible for 
missing the initial CETV expiry date.
Mrs M said she would have been prepared to pay WPS fee for the SIPP due diligence 
research. But only on the proviso that WPS honoured the initial CETV sum. However, that 
would have required WPS to make up the shortfall of around £12,000 in order to receive a 
£1,000 fee. I dont think that was ever a realistic prospect. 
In summary, WPS didnt get everything right. I think it should have been clearer about the 
likely timescales involved from the outset and theres no doubt its initial advice appointment 
was unreasonably delayed. I also think that the first adviser could have been clearer about 
what its charges were for and why. But, as I've said above, I think it was likely that Mrs M 
would have disputed those charges even if the first adviser had provided that clarity sooner. 
And, in those circumstances, I don't think  on balance  WPS would have concluded the 
advice process before the CETV expired. I note that WPS has offered Mrs M £100 to 
address the impact of its initial delay. I think that appropriately reflects the inconvenience 
caused to Mrs M in the circumstances, so I'm not going to instruct WPS to take any further 
action.My final decision
WPS ADVISORY Ltd has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that, unless it has already done so, WPS ADVISORY Ltd should pay 
Mrs M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman