DRN-2972554
The complaint
Mr O has complained to Fiscale Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) about advice he 
received to transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan.  
Mr O is being assisted with his complaint by a professional representative .
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Os employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr O was concerned and didnt know what to do so he sought advice from Fiscale as a few 
of his friends had also been to see this firm. Mr O initially met with Fiscale in August 2016. 
Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions to advise Mr O on the pension transfer. So, 
with Mr Os consent, Fiscale referred Mr O to another regulated firm with the relevant 
permissions. Ill refer to this firm as Firm J. 
After receiving advice from Firm J, Mr O transferred his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension. The agency for the personal pension was then switched to Fiscale. Fiscale then 
advised Mr O to invest his funds in line with his attitude to risk. 
In February 2020, Mr O with assistance from his representative, complained to Firm J about 
the advice he had received to transfer his pension. Firm J rejected the complaint. Mr O also 
complained to Fiscale at the same time. Fiscale issued its final response rejecting the 
complaint. It said that it hadnt provided Mr O with advice to transfer his pension. 
Mr O didnt accept what Fiscale said so he referred his complaint to our service for review. 
Mr Os representative provided detailed submissions to this service, setting out why Fiscale 
is jointly responsible or the advice Mr O received to transfer his pension. 
In summary, Mr Os representative has said that Fiscale and Firm J operated a joint venture, 
and their combined advice led to Mr O transferring his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. 
Both advisers endorsed each others work and played a role in the transfer of Mr Os 
pensions. Mr Os representative says Firm J and Fiscale were both involved in transferring 
large numbers investors out of the BSPS and their actions cant be viewed in isolation. The 
actions of Fiscale were such that neither company could have operated this scheme without 
the other, and both should be held responsible. The actions of Fiscale went beyond that of 
mere introducer to the point of being an integral part of a scheme. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but they concluded that Fiscale 
wasnt responsible for the advice given to Mr O to transfer his pensions. So they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr O has asked for the matter for be referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from 
the paperwork on file that Firm J gave Mr O that advice. Firm J had the relevant permissions 
to complete this transfer. The BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the 
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr O, the 
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Js involvement. Firm J has been declared 
in default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Therefore, any 
complaint against Firm J is now a matter for the FSCS; its not something this service can 
assist with. 
Although Firm J is responsible for the pension transfer advice, I have considered whether 
Fiscale should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr O to transfer out of the 
BSPS.  
After the initial meeting with Fiscale, Fiscale sent Mr O an email confirming what had been 
discussed. This email said that: 
As I explained at our meeting, Fiscale Financial Services Ltd does not have the necessary 
permissions to advise on pension transfers as this essentially is a specialist area. However, 
we do have contacts with independent financial advice firms that do undertake this type of 
work that we can refer clients to when appropriate.
We are happy to make a referral to the appropriate firm who will typically undertake an initial 
consultation on a free and without obligation basis. If they feel, having undertaken 
provisional analysis regarding your situation, that a transfer is in your best interests, they 
would agree a fee with you to undertake the work, that is preparing a suitability report 
detailing your options, recommending an appropriate provider to transfer the funds to, 
recommending an appropriate fund, outlining any costs etc. They would also deal with the 
British Steel Pension trustees regarding the transfer of funds.
Again as I explained at the meeting, should a pension transfer of your British Steel monies 
be in your best interests and go ahead, once the monies have been transferred, this is 
where Fiscale Financial Services Ltd would come back into the picture. Our agreement with 
the firm concerned is that if a transfer goes ahead and subject to your agreement, we would 
then take over the management of the pension funds to provide you with ongoing servicing 
and advice.
Important things to note
As Fiscale Financial Services Ltd are not providing pension advice in relation to the relative 
merits of transferring (or not), your British Steel Pension monies. Should you subsequently 
undertake a transfer of your pension funds to say a personal pension and then at some point 
down the line feel that this was not in your best interests, any potential complaint would be 
against the firm that provided you with the pension transfer advice, including associated fund 
advice, and not Fiscale Financial Services Ltd.
Fiscale Financial Services Ltd would however take regulatory responsibility once a change 
of agency letter has been submitted to the pension provider concerned for ongoing advice 
only.What I need you to do
I need you to drop me an email to confirm your understanding to the above at which point I 
can make the necessary referral to the firm concerned. Again as I explained at the meeting,
The firm I propose to refer you to is a similar type of firm to Fiscale Financial Services Ltd 
and I have known the Principal for approaching 23 years. In addition my experience is that 
his costs are competitive when compared with other firms who undertake work of this nature. 
However, it is clearly your decision if you wish to engage his services.
Once I have your email confirmation, I can make the referral. I would however point out, that 
the individual concerned is on annual leave at the moment, and therefore it is likely to be a 
period of time before he can come back to you. That said, I understand that you are currently 
in the process of obtaining a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value from British Steel that will be 
required by [Firm J] in any case
Mr O responded to this email confirming that he understood and wished to be referred so he 
could carry on with the possible pension transaction. I dont think there is anything within the 
email that could be construed as advice or a personal recommendation. And I think it was 
made clear to Mr O in these emails that Firm J would be assessing the suitability of the 
transfer. And, only if Firm J considered the transfer to be in Mr Os best interest, would it go 
ahead. 
By confirming he understood the content of the email, I think Mr O acknowledged his 
understanding that Firm J was the firm with relevant permissions to advise on the transfer 
and that Fiscale didnt have the relevant qualifications to so. Firm J gave Mr O the advice to 
transfer and without its involvement the transfer wouldnt have gone ahead.
 
I appreciate there was a meeting before the email was sent and I cant say for sure what was 
discussed between Mr O and Fiscale. Mr O has said that Fiscale sold him the dream and 
told him that hed be financially better off if he transferred his pension. And that he wouldnt 
be able to retire early if his pension went into the PPF and that he would only be able to 
meet his objectives by transferring. And he says that Fiscale endorsed Firm J and the two 
firms were essentially working together. 
I dont doubt Mr Os recollection of the discussion and I accept that Fiscale may have spoken 
positively about the transfer. And of course, it was hoping to provide Mr O with ongoing 
advice, should the transfer go ahead. So I think its likely that Fiscale would have hoped that 
Mr O would transfer. But in my view none of Fiscales interactions with Mr O in this regard 
ultimately caused the potential losses he may have suffered.
Mr Os representative has said that even if Fiscale didnt give advice, its still liable for this 
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its 
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers 
supports its argument that Fiscale should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm J.  
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right 
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances 
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a 
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts 
and merits relating to Mr Os dealings with Fiscale. 
Mr Os representative says Fiscale breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr O fairly 
and have due regard to his best interests when dealing with Firm J.  But Fiscale didnt have 
the required permissions to give advice on a pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to advise Mr O not to transfer. When a firm doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, 
its generally considered acceptable to refer clients to a firm that does. 
Mr Os representative says that it represents a large number of clients that transferred away 
from the BSPS after Fiscale referred them to Firm J. However, even if this was the case, I 
think on balance its more likely Fiscale referred customers to Firm J on the understanding 
that it would provide suitable advice, rather than on the premise that Firm J would 
recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. 
Its not reasonable to expect a firm who doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide 
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think Fiscale were allowed to rely on Firm J, who were 
regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, to 
provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Js obligation to provide Mr O with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr O to transfer, Firm J - as the experts in this field  ought to 
have clearly told him. And had they done so and provided reasons why, I dont think any 
previous discussions with Fiscale would have likely made Mr O go against Firm Js advice. 
Particularly as Mr O understood that Fiscale didnt have the right qualifications to advise on 
the transfer. So he was being referred to a firm that did.
In summary, I think it was Firm Js advice that caused Mr O to transfer and that its fully 
responsible for any losses Mr O may have suffered, if the advice was unsuitable. I dont think 
any loss Mr O may have suffered as a result of transferring away from the BSPS were 
caused by Fiscale. So I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman