DRN-3267421
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he was tricked into transferring 
to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr A received a call from someone pretending to be from a well-known retailer. The caller 
claimed that Mr A had been charged for a subscription in error and was due a refund. 
Though Mr A didnt believe that he had a subscription with the retailer, he agreed to fill out a 
form in order to receive the refund. He also allowed the caller to access his computer using 
remote access software. 
The refund was supposed to be £79.99, but the caller claimed that Mr A had filled out the 
form incorrectly, resulting in him being paid £7,999. Mr A was pressured into making three 
payments to the scammer totalling £1,990, without having confirmed that the payment had 
credited his account. When the caller provided a third set of account details, Mr A began to 
think something wasnt right and he contacted Barclays within an hour to report hed been 
the victim of a scam.
Barclays declined to refund him because it didnt think hed made the payments with a 
reasonable basis for believing the payee was legitimate (an exception to reimbursement 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code). It was, however, able to 
recover the second and third payments totalling £1,100. It also paid Mr A £150 to reflect its 
failure to respond to the complaint in time.
Our investigator agreed with Barclays, in their view Mr A hadnt done enough to verify who 
he was speaking to before going ahead with the payments.
Mr A didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It 
has argued that Mr A made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payee was legitimate. And, having thought about this carefully, I agree.
Mr A appears to have had some relationship with the retailer in the past  though hes never 
intentionally had a subscription. So, its possible, though unlikely, that it might have 
accidently charged him. Its also not implausible that in order to receive such a refund, he 
might have to fill out some kind of form (though I understand Mr A wasnt required to do this 
when he had previously cancelled a subscription he unknowingly signed up for).
I am concerned that the caller doesnt appear to have known anything more than his name 
and Mr A seemingly made no attempts to verify the identity of the caller or check his bank 
statements to see if he had accidently been charged. But in the initial stages of the call, I can 
see why Mr A might have felt he had little to lose by agreeing to fill out a form and receive a 
refund. He certainly ought to have been more cautious when downloading software that 
would give control of his computer over to the caller  but may not have understood the full 
implications of doing so. Again, I can understand why he might have believed the caller was 
simply being helpful in offering to guide him through the form. 
Mr A says a message popped up on the screen claiming that hed filled out the form 
incorrectly resulting in him being overpaid  presumably either the form was designed to do 
this or the fraudsters manipulated the screen using the control they had to show such a 
message. I can understand why this would, to an extent, have seemed convincing.
 
The banks notes suggest Mr A was then asked to logon to his internet banking  first on his 
mobile and subsequently on his desktop computer. I can see evidence of this in the banks 
electronic records with Mr A making two payments on his mobile application before logging 
onto online banking using his desktop computer. The final payment is subsequently made 
from his mobile banking application.
 
The fraudsters may have attempted to manipulate his screen and alter the balance of his 
accounts to apparently demonstrate the overpayment. But if this was what was intended, it 
does not appear to have been successful. Though Mr A says he didnt check at all whether 
hed received a payment into his account before going ahead  I think he would have seen, 
when making the payments, that the balance of his account had not increased.
 
Without being able to show that the funds had actually credited Mr As bank account, the 
fraudsters appear to have resorted to telling him that the amount would be credited within 48 
hours and simply pressured him into making the payments. I can understand that pressure 
would have been intimidating to Mr A  designed to make him comply without hesitation and 
threatening him with legal action. But, crucially, Mr A went ahead with the payments without 
having confirmed that he had or was going to receive a corresponding amount into his 
account.
   
Im afraid I cant agree that it was reasonable for Mr A to have started to repay the money 
until he could see it in his account. At the very least, at the point demands for money were 
made he ought to have sought to verify the caller  for example by calling back the retailer 
on a number he could verify belonged to it.
 
The requests for payment were odd too  not only was he asked to pay less than a thousand 
pounds to the first payee, but that payee wasnt obviously connected to the retailer. While, 
strictly speaking, Im considering Mr As belief in relation to the first payment (the others 
having been refunded), he appears to have found these payment requests increasingly 
unusual and the provision of a third set of account details by the fraudsters seems to have 
been enough to stop him believing the caller altogether. I think this indicates that Mr A wasnt 
particularly convinced by what he was being told either. But, in my view, that moment of 
disbelief ought to have come earlier  before he made the first payment. As such, I dont find 
that Mr A had a reasonable basis for believing the caller to be legitimate. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays ought to be responsible for the payment for any other 
reason. It has a duty to monitor accounts for unusual and out of character transactions to 
protect against the risk (among other things) of customers suffering financial harm from 
fraud. The CRM Code also requires Barclays to provide an Effective Warning where it 
identifies a scam risk in a payment journey.In this case, the payment Mr A made was relatively modest in size and wouldnt have stood 
out as being unusual or out of character. Nor, given the amount and the lack of any other 
indication Mr A was at risk of fraud, do I think Barclays were obligated to provide a warning 
to Mr A.
 
Finally, Ive reviewed information from the bank which received Mr As funds and I can see 
that almost all the money was spent within minutes of being received  so no action by 
Barclays could have led to that money being recovered. The remaining amount left the 
account about an hour later. Even assuming Mr A contacted Barclays immediately after 
making the final payment at 13:21, it was less than 15 minutes later that the remaining funds 
were spent  so I cant reasonably conclude that there would have been enough time to 
contact the receiving bank and secure the small proportion of the funds that remained.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays havent acted unfairly by refusing to provide a refund to Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman