DRN-3266382
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under his HomeCare policy when he had a problem with low water pressure in his heating 
system.
What happened
In 2008 Mr A had a new boiler installed. He says that from around 2017 he had to call out 
BG on numerous occasions because of problems with the pressure of his hot water system. 
When an engineer attended in March 2018, he recommended that "as a last resort Mr A 
should have a Powerflush before looking at getting a new boiler. Mr A says he was told that 
if this didnt work, the cost would be offset against the cost of a new boiler. Mr A paid for a 
Powerflush on 11 April 2018 but the low water pressure issues with the boiler continued. 
Mr A was reluctant to purchase a new boiler, but in December 2020 he was offered a 
friends and family discount on a new boiler by one of the BG engineers. He obtained a 
quote for a new boiler and whilst the friends and family discount was applied to this, the 
£800 hed spent for his Powerflush was not. Mr A complained to BG about this but his 
complaint wasnt acknowledged.
In January 2021 Mr A contacted the manufacturers of his exiting boiler. They expressed 
surprise that he was considering replacing his boiler given its age and the fact that spare 
parts for it were readily available. 
Mr A says that he didnt understand the Powerflush procedure and would have had no 
reason to proactively request it, or to question the engineer's technical knowledge and 
diagnosis. He also says that he was told by BG that a Powerflush would be an irrelevant 
solution for low water pressure but that he knew what he was signing up for. He maintains 
that the Powerflush was an unnecessary waste of £800 and did not resolve the water 
pressure problem he had. Nor did he need a new boiler on which he could have spent 
£2,000. He believes BG has treated him unfairly on two occasions.
Mr A wants to be reimbursed what he spent on a Powerflush and compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by BGs poor service and its attempts to sell him a new boiler that 
he didnt need.
In its final response to Mr As complaint, BG has said that a Powerflush was the correct 
course of action  a blockage had been noted at a visit on 8 February 2014. It denied there 
had been any agreement to apply the cost of the Powerflush towards a new boiler, and it 
apologised for any misunderstanding about this. A new boiler had been recommended due 
to the age and efficiency of Mr As existing boiler and hed been offered friends and family 
discount as a goodwill gesture as he wasnt actually entitled to this, which represented a 
greater reduction on the cost of a new boiler than the cost of the Powerflush. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaints and brought them to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that a Powerflush was 
necessary and recommended that BG should refund to Mr A the cost of the Powerflush and 
pay him interest on this. He didnt address the potential sale of a new boiler as Mr A didnt 
buy one and so hadnt suffered any financial loss. He also didnt address Mr As complaint 
about BGs handling of his complaint as he considered that this was outside the jurisdiction 
of this service.
BG doesnt agree with our investigators view and Ive considered the points that it makes in 
response to it. Mr A takes issue with the factual accuracy of some of what BG says in its 
response. 
Mr As complaints have now been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im partially upholding Mr As complaints and Ill explain why.
Ive seen from BGs internal correspondence that it accepts that neither the Powerflush nor a 
new boiler were appropriate to fix the problem that Mr A was experiencing with his pressure. 
Mr A says he was encouraged by BG to have both. In its response to our investigators view, 
BG says:
We then attended in 2018 and cleaned the pressure relief valve of muck. This can be 
attributed to pressure loss, but wasn't the reason for quoting for the Powerflush again, the 
reason was the quality of the water in the customers system.
Theres no direct evidence that BGs engineer told Mr A on 19 March 2018 that a Powerflush 
would address his pressure problem. The engineer is no longer with BG. But as a 
Powerflush was going to cost Mr A £800, I dont think it likely that he wouldve agreed to pay 
this if he hadnt been led to believe it would solve the problem he then had, and avoid the 
need for a new boiler. He says he was told by the engineer that a Powerflush was a last 
resort, which suggests it was a final attempt to address the pressure problem.
BG has said that a Powerflush was necessary, otherwise its engineers wouldnt have 
continued with one. BGs visit records dont show a history of problems that are usually 
associated with a lot of sludge in the system. A blockage was cleared in February 2014, over 
four years before the Powerflush was undertaken. Other than a record of a blocked pressure 
gauge in March 2018, there is nothing in BGs visit records that suggests a significant or 
ongoing sludge problem. So Im not persuaded that a Powerflush was necessary as 
opposed to being merely desirable.
Its therefore my view that a Powerflush wasnt going to address any problem that Mr A had 
at that time with his pressure, and that there was no pressing need for one. I consider that it 
would be fair for BG to reimburse him for the cost of this.
Turning to Mr As other complaints, Ive noted what he says about BGs attempts to interest 
him in a new boiler This was not on the ground that there was anything substantially wrong 
with his existing boiler but because it wasnt A-rated and therefore not efficient, and were it 
to break down a replacement part might not be available. Mr A says that the boilers 
manufacturers told him there is no problem with the availability of parts.
I agree with our investigator that as Mr A didnt end up replacing his boiler, he hasnt 
suffered any financial loss. His concerns about the level of discount he should receive are therefore academic. Mr A was inconvenienced by meetings to discuss a new boiler, but I 
agree with our investigator that compensation for his wasted time can be addressed by the 
payment of interest on what he had to pay for his Powerflush.
I also agree with our investigator that we cant look into complaints about complaint handling 
as this isnt a regulated activity and is therefore outside our jurisdiction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partially upholding Mr As complaints.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to reimburse to Mr A the sum he paid it for his 
Powerflush and to pay him interest on the sum payable at the simple rate of 8% a year from 
the date he paid this to the date payment is made to him.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from the interest payable, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman