DRN-1666236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that in 2010 Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-
sold them a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr and Mrs W paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in 
return. They think that Bank of Scotland should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest. 
They have also complained that prior to selling them the URCA, Bank of Scotland switched 
them between different types of fee-free account without telling them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have been customers of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of 
Scotland has told us that they opened a fee-free account in 1996, that it sold them the URCA 
in 2010, and that the URCA was still open until at least 2019. Its also told us that they 
changed the type of fee-free account they held several times between 1996 and 2010.
I believe that Bank of Scotlands records about this are probably reliable and I have taken 
them to be accurate. Mr and Mrs W have said that Bank of Scotland didnt tell them about 
any of the changes to their accounts, both those which were fee-free and the URCA. They 
have described this as totally unfair. In the case of the URCA, theyve added that Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell them about the monthly fees or any of the benefits. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that 
Bank of Scotland should give Mr and Mrs W any money back. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree 
with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has 
come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr and Mrs W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Before discussing the way Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr and Mrs W, I will explain 
my findings about their concerns that Bank of Scotland changed the type of fee-free account 
they held without telling them. 
I dont know a great deal about how Bank of Scotland came to change the fee-free accounts. 
But, as all these changes go back over ten years and some took place around twenty years 
ago, I dont find this surprising. I cant tell if Bank of Scotland sought and received Mr and 
Mrs Ws consent or what else it did or didnt do. However, as Mr and Mrs W didnt have to 
pay any fees and I havent seen any other way in which they lost out, I dont think Bank of 
Scotland owes them any compensation. So, I am not upholding this part of their complaint. 
With respect to the URCA, once again there isnt a great deal of firm evidence for me to 
consider. So, Ive looked at all the circumstances and what both parties have told us to work 
out what is most likely to have occurred. 
The crux of the dispute is that Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland switched them to the 
URCA without getting their permission and without telling them anything about its cost and 
potential benefits, whereas Bank of Scotland says it told them about the account, its costs 
and benefits, gave them a choice and they decided to buy it. 
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service, and mobile phone insurance. Bank of Scotland also applied lower 
interest rates and charges to overdrafts for customers with URCAs than it usually offered to 
customers with fee-free accounts. In some cases, depending on how customers used an 
account, with an URCA they could save more from lower cost overdrafts than they paid in 
monthly fees.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W travelled to Europe from time-to-time and drove a car. Bank 
of Scotland has also told us that they registered several mobile phones for the insurance 
cover and made claims for some of them. They also overdrew their account quite frequently. 
So, it seems to me that if Bank of Scotland had told Mr and Mrs W about the URCA, they 
may well have been interested in some of its benefits. 
 
It would be unusual for Bank of Scotland to change a customers account and to start 
charging them fees without permission. When selling URCAs to customers with fee-free 
accounts, Bank of Scotland usually told them about the benefits and cost, and then gave 
them a choice. I accept that Mr and Mrs W may not remember this happening, but after they 
had held fee-free accounts for so long, I doubt that Bank of Scotland would have switched 
their account without their agreement. And given their circumstance, it seems to me that they 
may well have chosen it. If Bank of Scotland advised them to take it, I also think this would 
have been reasonable advice. 
Mr and Mrs W have accepted that they registered quite a few mobile phones for insurance 
and made some claims, but they have said they only knew about this because a friend told 
them that Bank of Scotland would repair mobile phones at low cost. I accept they may well 
have discussed this with a friend, but I also think its highly likely that Bank of Scotland told 
them about it too. After all, it was trying to sell URCAs to its customers, and it was in in its 
own interests to tell them what they would receive in return for their monthly fees. 
So, in summary, I dont think that Bank of Scotland failed to tell Mr and Mrs W about either 
the URCAs cost or its benefits or denied them a choice; or behaved unfairly in any other 
way when it sold the URCA to them. 
Mr and Mrs W have also told us that they first complained to Bank of Scotland that they 
thought it had mis-sold the URCA to them during a phone call they made in 2015, but that 
nothing happened as a result. Banks of Scotland has a note of this call taking place but 
doesnt have a recording or many details. 
I fully accept that Mr and Mrs W made a call, but I dont think they told Bank of Scotland that 
they wanted to close the URCA at that time, particularly as they went on to register more 
mobile phones for the insurance cover. And as the call took place several years after Bank 
of Scotland had sold the URCA to them, whatever took place during the call obviously didnt 
affect the way Bank of Scotland had made its sale. 
Mr and Mrs W have also told us that they kept the URCA for so long because of the 
overdraft. Im not sure if they are referring to the lower interest rate and charges they may 
have received with the URCA or some other aspect of their overdraft. But since they bought the URCA some of the terms and conditions and some of the regulations affecting overdrafts 
have changed. So, if they are unsure what is the best arrangement for them, they may wish 
to discuss their current needs with Bank of Scotland and/or other lenders. This is, of course, 
entirely a matter for them. I cant give them any advice or tell them what to expect.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give them any money 
back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman