DRN-2127604
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim he made for new flight 
costs under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and his family were due to go on a fly-cruise package holiday. Their flight to join the 
cruise ship was made up of two legs. They travelled as planned on the first leg of their 
flight. But when they came to take the second leg of their flight, the airline denied them 
boarding, as the visa they needed to enter their destination country had been attached to 
their old passports. So they didnt have the right documentation. The airline cancelled both 
their outward and inward bound flights.
So Mr C called AXA to check whether hed be covered for new flights to reach the cruise 
departure point. AXAs call handler told Mr C these costs would be covered, so Mr C went 
ahead and bought new outward and inward bound flights. His new outward-bound flight was 
delayed and he missed the cruise departure. He and his family incurred additional costs in 
reaching the cruise. He made a claim on his policy for the costs hed incurred, both for the 
costs of the new flights and the costs hed incurred in reaching the cruise ship.
AXA settled the claim for Mr Cs costs in reaching the cruise ship following the flight delay 
under the missed departure section of the policy. But it initially turned down the claim for the 
replacement flights because the policy doesnt cover boarding which is denied due to visa 
issues. 
However, AXA reconsidered the claim after Mr C complained that hed been told his flights 
would be covered. It accepted itd given Mr C incorrect advice. So it agreed to cover Mr Cs 
outbound flight costs to reach the cruise departure point and paid him £250 compensation. It 
also incorrectly included the first leg of Mr Cs return flight in its settlement. It didnt pay the 
costs for the second leg of Mr Cs flight home though. It said the initial pre-booked flights had 
been cancelled by the airline, which isnt covered by the policy. And it said package holiday 
costs are also excluded from cover.
Mr C was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
AXA had confirmed to him that it would cover all of his additional flight costs.
Our investigator didnt think AXA needed to settle the costs of Mr Cs final inbound flight. He 
acknowledged that AXA had wrongly told Mr C his new flight costs would be covered. But he 
said Mr C had already been in another country when he was denied boarding to the second 
leg of the flight. So he said Mr C would have always needed to buy new tickets back to the 
UK. And he felt that the policy simply didnt cover Mr Cs situation. He also considered that if 
AXA had given Mr C the correct advice when he was denied boarding, hed either have 
flown home or had to pay for new flights to reach the cruise departure point. So he didnt 
think Mr C had lost out financially.
Mr C disagreed. He said another airline had offered to fly his family back to the UK for free 
when they were initially denied boarding. He didnt dispute that the costs werent strictly 
covered, but he felt this was irrelevant, as hed been told his flight costs would be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr C fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the 
circumstances of Mr Cs claim and the terms of the policy to decide whether I think AXA has 
treated Mr C fairly.
Is the claim covered by the terms of the policy?
Mr C says he accepts that the costs hes claimed for arent strictly covered by the policy. Ive 
looked carefully at the policy wording to consider whether this is the case. The only section 
of the policy which provides cover for denied boarding is Section Q  Travel Disruption. So 
Ive looked at what this section of the policy says.
The Travel disruption section provides cover of up to £5000 for the additional travel and 
accommodation cost a policyholder incurs on the way home in certain circumstances. The 
insured events this section covers are: the public transport (including flights) that a 
policyholders booked to travel on being cancelled, delayed, redirected or diverted; denied 
boarding because of too many passengers being booked on public transport; or the 
insolvency of the public transport operator.
In Mr Cs case, the flight wasnt cancelled or delayed  his tickets were cancelled by the 
airline because he didnt have the right documentation. The policy also includes specific 
things that arent covered. These include denied boarding if a policyholder doesnt have the 
correct visas or documentation. And this section also doesnt cover additional costs if the trip 
was booked as part of a package holiday. Mr Cs pre-booked flights were booked as part of 
a package holiday and its acknowledged that he didnt have the right travel documents.  So I 
dont think the costs of Mr Cs new flights were covered by the policy terms.
Should AXA accept all of the flight costs due to its mis-advice?
Ive listened carefully to the call between Mr C and AXA. I accept Mr C was told his new 
flight costs to reach the cruise would be covered. So I can understand why he feels AXA 
should be liable for all of his new flights. Im pleased AXA acknowledged its error and I think 
this was the appropriate response.
But I have to bear in mind what impact I think AXAs misinformation had on Mr C and his 
family. Mr C had already taken the first leg of his flight and was abroad when he called AXA. 
So if AXA had correctly informed Mr C his flights werent covered at this point, Mr C wouldve 
had to make the choice between paying for a flight to get back to the UK and foregoing his 
holiday or paying for flights to get to the cruise departure point. In either case, Mr C wouldve 
always necessarily incurred some expense.
Mr C now says another airline had offered to fly him home at this point for free. I havent 
seen enough evidence to show me this was the case. But even if it was, I still dont think Mr 
Cs lost out financially by AXA not paying for the final leg of his return flight home. Thats 
because, as Ive explained above, if AXA had told Mr C his costs wouldnt be covered, hed have had two choices. One to take the free flight home and lose the total costs of the cruise 
holiday, which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. The other choice wouldve been for 
him to pay for new flights to the cruise departure point and return flights back to the UK. In 
both cases, I think these amounts wouldve likely been significantly more than the cost of the 
final flight back to the UK. 
Mr C was able to join his cruise at AXAs cost and had the benefit of his holiday. AXA also 
paid out more than it intended to when it covered the first leg of his return flight. So overall, I 
dont think Mr C has lost out due to AXAs misinformation. And the flight costs simply arent 
covered by the policy terms. This means Im not telling AXA to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman