DRN-3052743
The complaint
 Mr K disputes charges FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) applied at the end of his 
Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like the charges waived. And compensation for late 
collection of the vehicle.
.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
I have reviewed the charges against the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
Guidelines (BVRLA). Mr K has told us he has never had these guidelines. FCAs 
letter dated 16 August 2020 advising Mr K of his contract coming to an end stated his 
vehicle would be inspected according to these guideless. I cant be sure if FCA 
supplied them or not. But they are readily available online. And Mr K was made 
aware damage would be assessed against these guidelines
I think the charges do fall outside of fair wear and tear and are reasonable. However, 
our investigator felt the charge for a scratched left-hand quarter panel (£113) should 
be amended to the cost of putting a poor repair right. I think this is reasonable as the  
photographic evidence shows a repair , so should be correctly recorded as such.
I appreciate Mr K feels the charge for replacing a floor storage lid is high.  Mr K could 
have chosen to replace this himself  and that may have been cheaper -prior to 
handing the vehicle back but didnt do so. 
In terms of the time taken to collect Mr Ks car from the customer notes t its clear the 
collection agents had problems contacting Mr K by phone . FCA has apologised for 
the delay and explained it was partly due to the current health situation which I dont 
find unreasonable. I appreciate Mr K would have incurred some ongoing insurance 
and road tax costs if he kept his car on the road, but he would still have had use of 
the car. Or  he could have chosen to register it as off the road and so reduced his 
costs. . FCA, removed the collection charge plus an additional £50 from the overall 
charges to reflect the collection delay which  I think that was reasonable
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd should amend the charge for the 
left-hand quarter panel to a charge for putting right a poor repair.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman