DRN-3049857
The complaint
Mr C complains that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to him when he took out a 
guarantor loan with it.
What happened
Mr C borrowed £5000 with UK Credit Limited in 2016 with a guarantor loan. He complained 
in 2019 that the loan had been irresponsibly lent to him as it was unaffordable and had 
Credit Limited completed sufficient checks, it would have been aware of this when it made 
the decision to lend.
UK Credit Limited looked at Mr Cs complaint and reviewed the information it assessed at 
the time. It also considered whether, had more information been requested from Mr C to 
verify his income and expenditure discussed, whether it would have made a different lending 
decision. It said even if it had reviewed Mr Cs bank statements at the time  which it didnt 
think it needed to based on the checks ahead of this  it would still have felt the borrowing 
was affordable on a sustainable basis. It said this because Mr Cs income on his bank 
statements was higher than had been given on the application and although there was a 
number of transactions it couldnt identify and cash withdrawals each month, it believed the 
borrowing was affordable. So even if further checks had been carried out, it doesnt think it 
would have made a different lending decision.
Our investigator looked at Mr Cs complaint and said that they felt more should have been 
done. And had further checks been completed when the loan was taken out, UK Credit 
Limited would have realised the loan was unaffordable. 
He felt that Mr Cs previous credit history should have been enough to prompt UK Credit 
Limited to undertake more checks to understand his financial situation and relying on what 
was said only in response to this information wasnt reasonable and proportionate.
He said had further checks been requested like asking to see Mr Cs bank statements, 
questions should have been asked to identify the spending that wasnt clearly identifiable 
from these. Had this been questioned it might have highlighted what Mr C told us, a 
significant amount of his monthly spending related to gambling transactions. And every 
month Mr C was spending all of his income with little disposable left after these transactions. 
He felt this demonstrated that it was unlikely that Mr C would have been able to repay his 
loan in a sustainable way for the duration of the borrowing. He recommended that it refund 
the interest and charges paid in relation to the loan and remove any negative information 
from Mr Cs credit file.
UK Credit Limited disagreed. It said that it had explained what outcome it would have 
reached had it carried out further checks such as requesting to see Mr Cs bank statements. 
They felt it was unfair to rely on what was being explained now as the reasonings for the 
spending on the account previously. The statement information gave no clear information 
that Mr C had been gambling. And even when allowing for its loan repayment, Mr C would 
have been left with disposable income after all his essential spending had been met. 
Overall it felt the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate for the size and 
duration of the loan and there was nothing from the checks it did carry out which gave 
justification for any further checks.
Because UK Credit Limited disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and will 
explain why.
This services approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending is detailed on our website and 
Ive followed this approach when considering Mr Cs complaint.
The FCAs relevant regulatory framework for lending is set out in the Consumer Sourcebook 
(CONC). This places an obligation on UK Credit Limited to lend responsibly and complete a 
credit worthiness assessment, giving consideration to whether the lending is likely to 
adversely impact the consumer and their situation.
UK Credit Limited has explained in some detail the checks it carried out to assess Mr Cs 
credit worthiness and why it feels these checks were reasonable and proportionate in 
relation to the size and duration of the loan.
There are no set checks that need to be completed, although CONC does give examples of 
the common things it expects to be considered. The checks should take account of the 
consumers individual circumstances and so it follows that what might be deemed reasonable 
and proportionate for one person might not be for another. Ive considered first of all whether 
I think the checks carried out by UK Credit Limited were reasonable and proportionate to 
determine whether it was likely Mr C was able to afford his loan repayments in a sustainable 
way.
When the loan was taken out, UK Credit Limited spoke to Mr C about his credit history and 
the information from his credit report. It highlighted two negative entries on the report, one 
default from five years earlier and a more recent CCJ entry in May 2015. Mr C explained that 
although he was the named borrower for these transactions, the loans were for his son and 
he hadnt been told payments had been missed and that they had defaulted until it was too 
late. UK Credit Limited accepted the rationale provided by Mr C for the negative information 
being applied and reviewed his affordability with Mr C confirming his contribution to 
household bills as well as his regular expenses.
Mr C was looking to borrow £5000 and when the application was made he already had 
lending of over £30,000. But his declared income and expenditure showed a healthy 
disposable income each month. I think this should have prompted UK Credit Limited to go 
further with its checks. And I dont think it was reasonable and proportionate to rely on 
Mr Cs declaration without questioning why hed allowed a CCJ to be registered for a 
relatively small amount compared to his income and why he regularly was at the limit on his 
overdraft or in excess of this. So I think it would have been reasonable to request more 
information from Mr C like his bank statements to verify his income and expenditure.
UK Credit Limited has said that even if it had requested the bank statements from Mr C at 
the time, its likely it would have deemed the borrowing to be affordable for him. Its based this on the fact that it feels the statements show he was managing his finances well and 
always meeting his regular direct debits. 
I dont agree that Mr Cs bank statements give a positive picture on how Mr C was managing 
his finances. 
The bank statements showed his income to be higher than previously disclosed, but his 
account also had a large number of regular transfers and cash withdrawals  and it never 
had a positive balance for the months prior to the lending. This meant that even with his 
higher income, Mr Cs account was still regularly heavily overdrawn. Although the account 
information showed he hadnt had direct debits returned, there had been occasions when 
these were paid with the overdraft limit being exceeded. And there was a clear reliance on 
the overdraft facility. 
Based on this, I think a reasonable question would be, what commitments or spending 
meant Mr C was unable to reduce this reliance on his overdraft based on his level of income. 
And did this mean it was likely he was able to afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
Mr C might not have disclosed to UK Credit Limited the reasons behind his spending. CONC 
explains that relying on self-declaration wont always be sufficient and so even if asked, 
further checks might have been needed. But I think the account usage demonstrated there 
was a risk of vulnerability with either compulsive spending or gambling  due to the volume 
of transactions and the amount of these each month when compared to the income. And the 
question should have been asked to determine the cause of this and to ensure there was no  
vulnerability which meant it was less likely Mr C was able to afford the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
In the absence of this and combined with the negative information on Mr Cs credit file and 
his reliance on an overdraft facility to meet his financial commitments each month, I think it 
was unlikely that Mr C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I agree with 
our investigator that the lending was irresponsible.
UK Credit Limited asked about statements from a second bank account Mr C held and 
questioned what this showed. Mr C hasnt been able provide any other statements and 
doesnt believe he has another account. He thinks the separation of his bank from one to 
another might have shown two accounts when theres only one. In the absence of anything 
else, Ive relied on the information that has been provide by both sides when deciding this 
complaint.
Putting things right
UK Credit Limited need to do the following to put things right with Mr Cs account and 
complaint.
1. It should refund all interest and charges Mr C has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, it should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated in step 1.
3. If, after step 2 a capital balance remains, UK Credit Limited should ensure Mr C isnt 
subjected to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if after step 2 a 
positive balance remains, this should be returned to Mr C with 8% simple interest* 
added.
4. UK Credit Limited should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges.*HM Revenue and Customers requires business to take off tax from interest. If this is the 
case, Credit Limited must provide Mr C with a statement of any tax paid upon request.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman