DRN-4183756
The complaint
Mr S complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) didnt do enough to 
safeguard him against fraud. Mr S is represented by his sister, Mrs G.
What happened
Mr S has a bank account with VM. He operated the account with support from his mother. 
When his mother passed away, Mrs G stepped in to support Mr S with the account. Mrs G 
found some historical transactions suspicious and concluded Mr S was being taken 
advantage of by a friend hed met online. She says between October 2020 and April 2022 
Mr S was deprived of about £4,500. Mrs G considers VM should reimburse Mr S because it 
didnt do enough to safeguard him. VM didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it declined 
Mrs Gs request for reimbursement. Mrs G asked our service for an independent review.
The Investigator didnt find VM had acted unfairly. He said, in summary, that he wasnt 
persuaded VM was on notice Mr S needed additional support, that the account was run well, 
that the disputed transactions didnt stand out, and that therefore VM werent to know Mr S 
was being coerced to make payments to a third party. Mrs G remained of the opinion VM 
should have known Mr S was vulnerable and noticed something was amiss through the 
locations, frequency and change in spending patterns. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G says the VM branch staff should have identified Mr S was vulnerable and someone 
whom, due to his personal circumstances, is especially vulnerable to detriment. VM says it 
wasnt aware Mr S needed any specific support. Im not persuaded VM knowing more about 
Mr S circumstances would have made a material difference in what happened here. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S has had an account with VM for many years. As I understand it, he only had access to 
a debit card. There was no credit facility. This is the sort of set up generally needed for day 
to day living/activities, hence the provisions of the Payment Account Regulations (PARs) 
2015. As far as Im aware, VM wasnt on notice, and still isnt, that Mr S isnt entitled to - or 
incapable of operating - a bank account. 
VM has a duty to monitor customer accounts for fraudulent  or otherwise suspicious  
activity. There are well known trends for this, such as, but not limited to; unusually large 
transactions; unusually large numbers of transactions, especially in a short space of time; 
new payees for online payments. I have reviewed Mr S account history and statements. I 
make the following observations:
- The bulk of Mr S alleged loss is from cash withdrawals at ATMs, usually for £250, 
over a roughly 18-month period. Mrs G says  and has provided some evidence to 
support  that this cash was posted by Mr S to his friend. Transactions of this type 
wouldnt ordinarily cause suspicion as they require the card and PIN. Im not 
persuaded they ought reasonably to have caused VM concern with Mr S account 
because of this, and because he often made similar withdrawals in the period before 
this matter is said to have occurred. 
- The other transactions were predominantly for takeaways. Theyre usually for around 
£30 and are spread out over about 15 months. While some of these had transaction 
details showing a city other than the one in Mr S locality, Im not persuaded this was 
enough to put VM on notice that Mr S was being coerced into making them and/or 
authorising them.
- Mr S managed his account well. His balance remained in credit throughout the period 
in question. He didnt go overdrawn. He didnt incur interest or charges. No payments 
bounced. And theres no suggestion of him borrowing money to maintain his 
outgoings. There were, in other words, no signs of hardship on the account which 
would require VM to intervene.
- In mid-2020 VM blocked payments to two money remittance services. This 
demonstrates it was monitoring Mr S account. These blocks led to a branch visit 
from Mr S. He said - according to the contemporaneous notes  he didnt make the 
payments. The payments remained blocked. 
Mrs G says the blocking of payments to the two money remittance services was a missed 
opportunity for VM to step in to support Mr S. VMs notes do show it thought Mr S might be 
vulnerable. However, when asked to attend branch, he did. And when he said he hadnt 
made the payments, this was acted upon. In the absence of any other specific concerns, Im 
not persuaded there was more VM could have practically done. Blocking fraudulent 
payments isnt uncommon. Suspending Mr S account wouldnt have been proportionate and 
would likely have caused him distress and, perhaps, harm. And there wouldnt have been 
enough to reasonably justify an intervention by the Police. 
I have a great deal of respect for the efforts of Mrs G in supporting Mr S, and Im sorry if he 
has lost out in the way she says he has. I must, however, approach this matter objectively. 
And having done so, I dont find I can fairly and reasonably require VM to reimburse Mr S 
given I dont find it is responsible for his alleged loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman