DRN-3465968
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M applied for a current account with Santander, and was asked to provide 3 
years worth of address history. He told Santander hed been at his current address since 
mid-2017, and a previous address since mid-2013. Then Santander found defaults and a 
county court judgement (CCJ) at two other addresses from late 2013 and early 2014. They 
registered a CIFAS marker against Mr M for not disclosing the addresses with adverse data.
Mr M says he found out about the marker when his mortgage offer got withdrawn. He says 
he gave Santander his address history as best he could, and he was unaware of the adverse 
data at the older addresses. He pointed out that Santander had only asked his address 
history of the last 3 years, and the addresses with the adverse data were from longer ago 
than he was asked for.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked Santander for more 
details about the application and their checks, and asked Mr M for any evidence he had of 
when he was at each address.
I sent Mr M and Santander a provisional decision on 7 April 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this marker should be removed  Ill explain why.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show that 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed 
or attempted, backed up by evidence which would support reporting this to the authorities.
The current account application said: We need to know where youve lived over the last 3 
years. And from what Ive seen, Mr M gave Santander the two addresses hed been living at 
for the past 3 years at the time. The application then said, in effect, that no further data was 
required. The defaults and CCJs were from over 5 years before the application. And Mr M 
wasnt asked about his address history that far back. So Santanders assertion that he was 
deliberately withholding address data doesnt seem to hold up. He wasnt asked about his 
addresses that far back, and wouldnt have necessarily known that they were relevant.
Further, Santander never spoke to Mr M about this or gave him any chance to clarify things 
before registering the CIFAS marker. I dont think this was good practice. And it makes it 
difficult for them to now show this was not simply a mistake, misunderstanding, or oversight. 
It's hard to see how Santander can think they have such strong evidence that they could 
report this to the authorities, when they didnt make any attempts to check Mr Ms answers at 
the time.
Indeed, Santander seems to have quite little evidence to back up this marker. The defaults 
and CCJs are for accounts that started in 2012. Theres every chance that the accounts 
defaulted or went to court after Mr M had moved out. So Santander has only really shown 
that Mr M was at those addresses in 2012. They havent provided anything to show that 
Mr M was still there in 2013 or 2014, such as electoral roll data. Indeed, Mr M says he was 
unaware of the defaults and CCJs because hed left those respective addresses by then.
Mr M explained he doesnt still have things like his old tenancy agreements for those 
addresses, which is understandable given the time thats passed  he moved in up to a 
decade ago or longer. But he was able to provide historic payslips, which showed that from 
at least July 2013 onwards, his address was indeed the second address he gave Santander, 
and not the older ones with the adverse data. This tends to suggest that Mr M really did 
move out of those addresses before that adverse data was added.  And again, it bears 
repeating that he was only asked for the last 3 years worth of addresses  which only went 
back to mid-2016 at the time of the application. So it would be quite understandable if he 
didnt think to include addresses hed moved out of 6 or more years before, nor consider 
them relevant.
It follows that I currently think Santander did not have sufficient grounds to add this marker, 
and that it should now be removed.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, too  to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had. Mr M explained that he missed out on a 
number of financial products, and specifically a business loan and mortgage. Ive thought 
carefully about this. I cant normally consider losses to Mr Ms business, which would be a 
separate entity to Mr M himself. And I understand that Mr M was since able to get the 
mortgage after coming to our service  though of course it would have been most distressing 
to have his offer withdrawn at first. I also need to bear in mind that Mr M had other negative 
data which may well have hindered him from getting certain financial products anyway. But 
given the severe effects a CIFAS marker commonly has, I do think its most likely that this 
one had a significant effect on Mr Ms ability to get credit. 
Ive also taken into account the considerable distress, upset and worry the marker caused 
Mr M, as well as the efforts he had to put in to sort things out. Santander need to put all that 
right. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be 
consistent with those. Taking everything into account, I currently think Santander should pay 
Mr M £450 compensation.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 May 2022. But neither Mr M nor Santander sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK Plc to:
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute; and-
pay Mr M £450 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and direct Santander UK Plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman