DRN-3512922
The complaint
Miss S complains that Capital Com (UK) Limited allowed her to open a contracts for 
difference trading account without giving her any training.
What happened
Miss S opened a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with Capital Com (UK) 
Limited (CapCom) in May 2021 and proceeded to trade until July 2021 when she 
experienced a margin close. She says her positions were closed without any warning so she 
contacted CapCom to complain the same day. I have summarised the key complaint points 
below:-
- She felt forced to sign up because of the number of adverts she was seeing
- She wasnt given any training prior to trading
- She wasnt given any assistance in setting up the account or any warnings
- She says they havent taken any responsibility for not helping to understand the 
risks involved.
- Her positions were closed out without any warning and lost around £1230 whilst 
trading 
- She doesnt feel theyve considered her personal circumstances 
To resolve the complaint, she would like her original positions to be reopened or her initial 
investment to be refunded to her.
CapCom issued a final response letter in July 2021, saying an appropriateness assessment 
was done when her account was opened. They say the answers she gave in the 
assessment showed she didnt have the experience of this type of trading. They gave her a 
risk warning and she proceeded to open the account.
They also say the margin hadnt been maintained at the required 50% so this triggered the 
margin close out. They say the positions were closed in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. They rejected her complaint, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the merits of this complaint and agreed with CapCom. He 
considered whether the account was appropriate for Miss S and whether the risks of this 
type of trading had been explained. He didnt think CapCom had done anything wrong in 
opening the account or in closing her positions and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Miss S that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
this complaint and for the same reasons as the investigator. I will explain further.
Appropriateness of account
As a regulated firm, the rules by which CapCom must conduct their business are outlined in 
the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. COBS 
10.2 outlines the requirements that CapCom had to follow:-
COBS 10.2.1 R 01/11/2007 
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client. 
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm: 
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded; 
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to those particular 
investment services or transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the 
client is classified as a professional client. 
CapCom were required to gather relevant information to establish whether their client has 
the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service and 
product offered  to decide if it was appropriate for them. There is no dispute that the Miss S 
didnt have experience of CFD trading but she did pass CapComs internal scoring which 
meant if she decided to continue with the account opening after being given an additional 
warning, she would not be prevented from doing so. 
To be clear, there was no requirement that CapCom had to decline her application simply 
because she lacked the relevant experience. The rules require them to give an enhanced 
warning about the risk and let Miss S decide for herself if she wished to proceed. She was 
presented with the following warning before being able to proceed.
Your Capital.com account has been created! Though you do not have sufficient 
experience with CFDs, you can start trading with caDital.com by accepting the risk 
warning below.
I understand your warning that trading in CFDs may not be appropriate for me as it 
may lead to a loss of my entire invested capital. 
So, I am satisfied that CapCom did fulfil this element of their regulatory obligations in 
opening the account. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the risks of CFDs and warnings had been given to her and I 
think CapCom did enough to warn Miss S of the risks involved in CFD trading. The form she 
completed when opening the account gives clear risk warnings, as well as the Risk 
Disclosure Statement she agreed to and the main trading website. The risk notice would 
have been given at the account opening stage and the numerous trading risk notices would 
be clearly visible. In addition to this, she agreed to the terms and conditions of the account 
which do highlight the high risk nature of CFD trading and using leverage. Its clear from what Miss S says she did expect some sort of training or support in trading but 
I havent seen anything to suggest they would provide training. CapCom provide an 
execution only service and so I would not expect they would have provided any training prior 
to opening the account. The onus is on Miss S to familiarise herself with the terms and 
conditions of the account as well as the various risk warning so that she was aware of the 
requirements and obligations of each party. She agreed to the terms and conditions of the 
account and to the risk warnings presented to her, so, I am satisfied based on what Ive seen 
that CapCom did enough to make her aware of the risk involved in losing more than her 
initial deposit amount. 
Given that she would have been given the risk warnings, passed the appropriateness test at 
account opening and proceeded with the account suggests she understood the risks 
involved. With this in mind, it would be difficult for me to see why the account wouldnt be 
appropriate for her or that CapCom should have prevented her from opening the account, so 
I dont think they needed to do anything differently.
Pressure to open the account
Miss S has mentioned concerns that she felt pressured to open the account with CapCom 
because of the number of adverts she was seeing. Whilst I appreciate that she may have felt 
overwhelmed into exploring this account, I cant see that there is any actual evidence of 
CapCom pressurising Miss S to open the account. 
I understand the strength of feeling she has particularly with everything that she has been 
through but my role here is not to tell a business how it should operate, that is the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. If she continues to have concerns over the way 
CapCom have been advertising, I suggest she contacts the FCA to discuss this further. 
Margin call
The terms and conditions of the account clearly outline CapComs position in this respect. 
Miss S was required to maintain the margin at 50% and she failed to do this, so it triggered 
the margin close out. I appreciate Miss S feels she wasnt given any warning, but the terms 
of the agreement do not require them to do this. Although not required to, the evidence Ive 
seen shows that Miss S was sent a margin call warning. In addition to this, she agreed to the 
Leverage and Margin Policy when she signed up to the account suggesting she understood 
how the margin requirements worked. 
I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses shes 
suffered and significant impact this has had on her. I have considered all the information 
thats been provided to me and havent seen anything that would suggest there has been a 
breach of the terms of the agreement or the COBS rules so I am not persuaded that any 
wrongdoing on CapComs part has been established. 
For these reasons, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Capital Com (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman