DRN-3296778
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wrongly suspended access to his online 
banking account.
What happened
Mr L holds a bank account with HSBC. Around mid-June 2021, Mr L reported to HSBC what 
he believed to be fraudulent activity on his account. HSBC say that when Mr L initially called 
to report the fraudulent activity, he was accidentally transferred to the wrong department. 
Access to his online banking portal and telephone banking was also suspended. HSBC say 
this was as a precaution to protect his account, as at that stage, they didnt know whether his 
account had been compromised. Full access to Mr Ls account was re-instated in late June 
2021.
Mr L complained to HSBC as he was unable to access his account online for around two 
weeks. He believes he should receive £5,000 compensation. 
HSBC, after looking into his concerns, apologised for his experience while reporting the 
possible fraudulent activities and for him not having access to his account, when he should 
have. As an apology, they credited his account with £50 compensation. HSBC later offered 
to increase the amount of compensation to £150, but they say Mr L declined the offer.
Mr L, unhappy with HSBCs response, brought his complaint to our service. He says he 
missed out on an investment opportunity as a result of not having access to his online 
account. Mr L believes the compensation HSBC gave, including the additional amount 
offered is not enough and would like £5,000. HSBC has confirmed the offer of £150 
compensation in total is still available to Mr L.
The investigator explained that he thought it would be unreasonable to ask HSBC to 
compensate Mr L £5,000 as there was no guarantee that his investment opportunity he says 
he was planning to make would return that amount. He also explained that the £150 
compensation HSBC offered is a fair amount for Mr L not having access to his online 
account for around two weeks.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings. He believes that by not having access to his 
online account, he could have put himself in danger by withdrawing large amounts from an 
ATM machine so that he could make payment for the investment opportunity. This complaint 
has now been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and my reasons are broadly similar to that of 
the investigator. Ill explain why below.
The first thing I must consider is whether HSBC has treated Mr L unfairly by restricting online 
access to his bank account and to the telephone banking facility. HSBC say they restricted 
his access as a precaution to protect his account, as at the time, they were unaware whether 
Mr Ls account had been compromised.
But having also seen HSBCs internal notes, I can see that they shouldnt have suspended 
Mr Ls online banking or telephone banking as those details werent compromised and the 
payments Mr L was saying were fraudulent werent made via those channels. I can also see 
HSBC should have transferred Mr L to the correct team to deal with his issue.
As a result, I can see Mr L had to chase HSBC to regain access to his online banking and 
telephone banking facilities.
HSBC has acknowledged Mr Ls experience could have been better. They say they should 
have been able to help sooner with him reporting the possible fraudulent activity on his 
account. And they say they should have reinstated his online and telephone banking sooner. 
HSBC offered £150 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. HSBC has already 
credited Mr Ls account with £50. Mr L declined the additional £100 HSBC offered. As it isnt 
in dispute that HSBC has made a mistake, Ive gone on to consider whether this is a fair 
outcome.
Mr L was without access to his online and telephone banking for around two weeks, before 
the issue was rectified. Mr L also says he had to call HSBC on occasions and complain to 
them to get the issue sorted. Mr L says he lost out on pursuing an investment opportunity as 
a result of his online account suspension.
Mr L says compensation of around £5,000 would be more appropriate. But I dont think that 
amount of compensation would be fair to HSBC as I dont think the impact of their mistake 
would reasonably be as high to warrant an award of £5,000. 
Mr L says he wouldnt have felt comfortable withdrawing large amounts from an ATM 
machine to make payment into his investment, as he would be putting himself in danger of 
robbery. Mr L also hasnt provided evidence of what investment opportunity he says he has 
missed out on over the period his online banking was suspended. But even if he had 
provided this information, Im mindful that Mr L could have still visited a local branch if the 
investment opportunity was time sensitive. Im also mindful that I havent been provided with 
any evidence from Mr L to suggest that the investment he wished to make has resulted in 
him missing out on £5,000 worth of profit.
Considering HSBC resolved the matter by reinstating full access to his account within a 
fortnight and acknowledged their mistake to Mr L, I think an award of £150 in total is a fair 
amount in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, I think HSBCs offer is fair in the circumstances.
In full and final settlement of the complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr L 
compensation totalling £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This includes the 
£50 HSBC has already credited to Mr Ls account.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman