DRN-2894887
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie SCA (PayPal) handled a dispute she 
raised in relation to an item she bought but didnt receive.  
What happened
Mrs S ordered an item from an online retailer in November 2020. The item was due to be 
delivered by a company, which Ill refer to as F throughout this decision.
Around a month after ordering, Mrs S contacted the seller as she hadnt yet received her 
item. She attempted to resolve the matter with both the seller and the retailer but wasnt able 
to. So, she took her complaint to PayPal and asked for a refund of the item under its Buyer 
Protection Scheme. PayPal reviewed matters and said that the details for the item tracking 
number the seller had provided showed the item status as delivered. So, it wouldnt be 
refunding her.
Unhappy with PayPals response, Mrs S contacted F directly to get some more information 
about what had happened to her item. F explained that it had actually declared the item as 
lost however, it was unable to amend the status on its system which showed that the item 
had been delivered. Mrs S was able to get an email and a reference number from F, which F 
said would support the fact that the item had been declared as lost. 
Mrs S provided this information to PayPal, however its decision remained the same. Mrs S 
spoke with a PayPal adviser who explained it couldnt accept the email she had provided. 
The adviser confirmed that it would review the dispute again, should Mrs S be able to 
provide an official document from F outlining that the item had been declared as lost. Mrs S 
says she got this letter, with some difficulty, and provided it to PayPal. But to her surprise, 
PayPals decision remained unchanged.
Mrs S was unhappy that shed provided additional information, which she felt changed 
matters, yet PayPals response didnt make any reference to this. So, she brought her 
complaint to this service. Whilst the complaint has been with this service, PayPal offered to 
pay Mrs S £65 compensation to cover the cost of the item shed purchased, and also £20 
compensation for the inconvenience that the matter caused her. 
One of our investigators reviewed things and thought this was a fair resolution in the 
circumstances as the item cost was refunded, and he thought the £20 compensation fairly 
recognised the inconvenience the matter caused Mrs S. PayPal didnt dispute our 
investigators opinion, but Mrs S did. In summary, she said she didnt think the compensation 
offered was enough to recognise the inconvenience the matter caused her and the effect of 
the matter on her health.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal originally declined Mrs Ss request for a refund as the seller was able to evidence 
tracking information which included a delivered status, and a delivery location showing a 
town and county matching the shipping address Mrs S provided. The document also shows 
the item appeared to have been signed for by an individual with the same surname as 
Mrs S, on 21 December 2020. 
PayPals requirements under its Buyer Protection Scheme state that a claim for an item not 
being delivered wont be successful if the seller has provided proof of delivery. It then goes 
on to give further information about what would be considered as valid proof of delivery. 
Having reviewed these requirements and the initial tracking information, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that PayPal initially relied on the information it had been provided with, which 
suggested that the item had been delivered.
Matters then progressed when Mrs S was able to get additional information from F the 
following week. It confirmed that a search of its systems showed that it had actually declared 
the item as lost. However, it said it wouldnt be able to amend its systems that were still 
reporting the initial status of delivered. Its clear there was some conflicting information 
recorded about the delivery of Mrs Ss item. However, whilst Fs systems couldnt be 
amended, I think the information it later provided Mrs S clearly showed the item had been 
recorded as lost. So, I think Mrs S provided PayPal with persuasive information to support 
this  with a reference number and email from F outlining this information and more recently 
a formal letter with Fs letterhead on it, supporting the position.
Mrs S is unhappy that PayPal didnt consider this additional information sooner than it did. 
She explained that she was inconvenienced by having to contact F and investigate the 
matter further herself. Yet when she did provide the new information, PayPals response 
remained the same. Mrs S has also detailed the effects PayPals service had on her and 
said the matter had a negative impact on her health.
I was sorry to hear about how the matter had affected Mrs S, and I can understand her 
frustration in the outcome of the dispute remaining the same despite providing information 
which, in my opinion, ought to have been considered sooner than it was. Since then, PayPal 
acknowledged this and offered to pay Mrs S a total of £85 compensation - £65 which it says 
covers the cost of the item Mrs S paid for and £20 compensation for the inconvenience of 
the matter. 
Having thought about this carefully, I think the compensation it has offered to pay is 
reasonable. I say this because whilst I acknowledge Mrs Ss frustration that PayPal didnt 
initially consider the additional information she provided, it did so around a month later and 
made an offer which recognised the impact caused to Mrs S during that period. So, whilst I 
agree PayPal couldve resolved matters sooner than it did, I think its made a reasonable 
offer to put things right in the circumstances.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie SCA to pay Mrs S a total of £85 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience of the matter, if it hasnt paid this already.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman