DRN-3660171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about QIC Europe Ltd (QICs) handling of a claim they made 
under the contents section of their home insurance policy.
What happened
Both Mr and Mrs H are named policyholders. But the claim and complaint have been made 
by Mr H. So, for ease of reference, Ill only refer to Mr H moving forward.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr H made a claim for damage to his laptop. It was 
deemed beyond economical repair, so QIC paid a cash settlement.
Mr H wanted the laptop to be returned to him, in addition to the settlement, but QIC advised 
that would be betterment. Mr H arranged for QICs supplier to return the laptop, in exchange 
for a salvage fee of £40.
Mr H complains that the policy terms arent clear regarding salvage and that it wasnt 
explained to him at any point prior that he would be charged for retaining the laptop. He 
wants the £40 returned and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered as a result of QICs handling of the claim.
Our investigator considered this complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
didnt feel that QIC had acted outside the terms of the policy or treated Mr H unfairly by 
taking ownership of the damaged laptop. She also said it was fair for QIC to charge a 
salvage fee, and that this is standard practice in the insurance industry.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy terms state that QIC can decide how to settle a claim, and that this will be by 
either, 
a) repairing or reinstating the item: or b) replacing the item; or c) paying you the cash 
equivalent.
The policy also explains that QIC will, 
Arrange the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements and dispose of any damaged 
items appropriately.
Based on the above terms, Im satisfied that QIC was entitled to settle the claim by paying a 
cash settlement, and that it was entitled to take ownership of the laptop in order to properly 
dispose of it.
I agree with Mr H that the term around taking ownership could be clearer, and that it could 
set out that QIC would charge a fee if the policyholder wanted to retain the damaged item 
(salvage). But Im not upholding his complaint based on the fact that it doesnt.
I say this because, regardless of whether its specifically stated in the policy or not, its a 
standard principle of insurance that once an insured item is a total loss (ie beyond 
economical repair) and the insurer settles the claim, that the damaged item becomes the 
property of the insurer. 
Insurance is there to provide indemnity. That is to put the policyholder, as closely as 
possible, back in the position they would have been in had the loss not occurred. QIC paid 
Mr H a cash settlement which was sufficient to replace the damaged laptop and in doing so, 
indemnified him for his loss. Had Mr H been allowed to retain the damaged laptop, in 
addition to the cash settlement, he would be in a better position than he was in prior to the 
loss. And QIC would be at a loss as it would have settled the claim and given away property 
that it owned, and that it could have sold for salvage.
As the laptop was Mr Hs property prior to the loss, I would have expected QIC to allow Mr H 
to retain the damaged laptop if he wanted it to  which it did, via its supplier. But I dont 
consider it to be unfair that Mr H was asked to pay the salvage value of the laptop in order 
for it to be returned.
Ive completed my own investigations into the salvage value for Mr Hs damaged laptop. And 
based on what Ive seen online, Im satisfied that the £40 he was charged is in line with the 
accurate salvage value, and so is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs concerns about the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a 
result of this claim. But as I dont think QIC has handled his claim poorly, or reached an 
unfair decision, I dont think it needs to take any further action or pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against 
QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman