DRN-3663916
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the overdraft fees and charges that TSB Bank plc (TSB) applied to 
his account. And how it responded to his financial difficulties and the impact of this to his 
mental health.
What happened
Mr C held a current account with TSB which had an overdraft attached to it. In January 2020, 
TSB wrote to Mr C to let him know it would be removing the arranged overdraft facility. It 
said it would replace this with an unplanned overdraft to cover the outstanding balance. 
In October 2020, Mr C contacted TSB and let it know a direct debit had been paid out of his 
account and so he couldnt access a Universal Credit payment that had been paid into his 
account. Mr C let TSB know this was causing him stress and he explained the impact to his 
mental health. During the call, TSB raised a direct debit indemnity and told Mr C his 
Universal Credit funds were available for him to withdraw. TSB also paid Mr C £100 as an 
apology and to cover any costs he had incurred.
In December 2020, TSB wrote to Mr C and said it had contacted him a number of times and 
asked him to repay his unarranged overdraft. It said as Mr C hadnt repaid this, he would 
now need to repay the full amount of the unarranged overdraft. Following this, Mr C 
complained to TSB. 
TSB looked into Mr Cs complaint. It said when it set up a repayment plan, Mr C agreed to 
the repayment amount. It apologised for the difficulty Mr C had when he said he had tried to 
contact it. And it accepted it had incorrectly told Mr C it would only take 15 days to resolve 
his complaint. It clarified it had eight weeks to look into Mr Cs complaint. TSB credited Mr 
Cs family members account with £50 and said it would be happy to consider any additional 
costs Mr C had incurred as a result of the difficulties he had encountered, upon Mr C 
providing evidence of these.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He explained that as a result 
of TSB denying him access to his Universal Credit, this impacted his mental health and his 
personal life and led to him entering an involuntary arrangement (IVA). And he said he was 
unhappy with the service TSB provided in response to his financial difficulty and personal 
circumstances. He also said TSB provided him with a payment holiday which lasted three 
months, but it didnt agree to any further requests to extend the payment holiday.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought TSB acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft fees to Mr C from June 2019. She said this should have 
been apparent to TSB because by this point, Mr C hadnt maintained a credit balance for an 
extended period of time. She recommended TSB re-work Mr Cs current overdraft balance 
so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from June 2019 onwards were removed. 
And she said if this resulted in Mr Cs account having a credit balance, TSB should pay 8% 
simple interest on any overpayments made from the date the overpayments were made until 
the date of settlement.
TSB responded and said it would agree to remove the interest and charges applied to the 
account after June 2019. Mr C said he was unhappy that our adjudicator didnt recommend 
TSB paid any further compensation to him. He said when TSB didnt accept a repayment 
plan of £10 less a month, this was detrimental to his mental health. 
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 21 July 2022, in which I said the following:
In this case, both parties agree that no further overdraft fees should have been applied to 
Mr Cs account by TSB after June 2019. As both parties agree on this point, I wont consider 
the overdraft fees applied by TSB to Mr Cs account as part of this decision. 
In addition, quite some time has passed since Mr C made his complaint. This decision will 
only focus on the events that TSB occurred before TSB issued its final response letter in 
December 2020. That said, Ive looked at whether I think TSB acted fairly and reasonably 
when Mr C told it about his financial circumstances and about his ongoing health 
circumstances. 
Overdrafts are repayable on demand. So TSB was entitled to remove the arranged overdraft 
when it did. However, given Mr C had told it about his circumstances at the time, TSB was 
obliged to treat Mr C with forbearance and due consideration.
Mr C says that he wasnt able to access his overdraft on a number of occasions and 
because TSB wouldnt accept a repayment plan of £10 lower each month, this impacted his 
mental health substantially. He says he told TSB about the extent of his mental health issues 
and that he wasnt able to work as a result of this. He doesnt think the £100 TSB has offered 
is fair.
Ive looked through the history of Mr Cs account and the communication between TSB and 
Mr C. Having done so, Mr C appears to have told TSB he was struggling with making 
repayments in October 2019. I can see at the time TSB asked Mr C to provide an income 
and expenditure and with medical evidence. It didnt hear from Mr C, so it removed the 
overdraft in January 2020. 
I dont think TSB have acted unfairly here. I say this because TSB attempted to contact Mr C 
to obtain details of his financial circumstances and medical evidence. These are the steps I 
would expect it to take, to help it understand how best to support Mr C. However, as it didnt 
hear from Mr C, I dont think it did anything wrong when it removed the overdraft in January 
2020.
Following this, in February 2020, Mr C called TSB to let it know he owed a number of 
creditors and so he was in his overdraft. TSB at the time offered to set up a payment plan for 
Mr C, but Mr C said he would call them back. TSB also allowed Mr C to access funds in his 
account. Later that month, an income and expenditure assessment was carried out with Mr 
C. This showed that Mr C was unemployed but receiving funds from Universal Credit. At the 
time, he told TSB he was up to date with his bills and offered to pay £100 a month. TSB 
agreed to this and set up a balance reduction plan for six months of £84 per month. TSB 
also allowed Mr C access to funds. During this call, Mr C said he was suffering from stress, 
but explained this was as a result of the work he was doing and not due to his health. 
In April 2020, Mr C called TSB and let it know he had quit his job. He told TSB he was 
expecting a payment into his account from Universal Credit and he was applying for jobs. 
TSB applied a 30 day hold to the account. He called it later that month and a new payment 
arrangement was set. During this call, Mr C agreed to repay £110 per month and TSB 
allowed Mr C access to withdraw funds he had recently received. It also increased the 
balance reduction plan to reduce to £95 each month.
TSB didnt receive any payments agreed under the payment plan from Mr C, so it tried to call 
him. It was able to speak to him in late June 2020 and Mr C said he would refer his 
complaint to this service. TSB allowed Mr C access to his funds and placed the account on 
hold for 28 days.
In July 2020, Mr C called TSB. Mr C said he had recently been diagnosed with severe 
depression and he wasnt in a position to set up a repayment plan. He told TSB he would be 
entering an IVA and he complained about the support it had provided. TSB allowed Mr C access to his Universal Credit, placed a hold on Mr Cs account for three months and froze 
interest and charges for three months. It also allowed Mr C access to his funds each month, 
by providing a temporary limit, between August and November 2020. 
Having reviewed the conversations between TSB and Mr C after February 2020, I think TSB 
have acted fairly. I say this because TSB is required to act with forbearance and due 
consideration when its made aware a customer is in financial difficulty. TSB went through Mr 
Cs income and expenditure on two occasions and the balance reduction plans it set on both 
these occasions were lower than Mr C had offered. Mr C didnt keep to these plans, but TSB 
still allowed Mr C access to his funds each month, despite it removing the overdraft. 
I appreciate Mr C was diagnosed with severe depression and Im sorry to hear this. I can see 
he made TSB aware of this. However, given that TSB allowed Mr C access to the funds 
each month even when it had removed the overdraft, and it set repayment plans that Mr C 
had agreed to, I think it has acted with forbearance and due consideration. And so, because 
I think its acted reasonably, it follows that I dont require TSB to pay Mr C any further 
amounts in compensation.
Having said this, I understand that Mr C may still be suffering from financial difficulties, so I 
urge TSB to continue treating Mr C with forbearance and due consideration.
My provisional decision
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue a final decision saying that I think 
that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for TSB 
Bank plc to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after June 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr C is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with TSB to reach a suitable 
agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs 
credit file, TSB should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2019. TSB can also 
reduce the overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr C over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. TSB can also reduce Mr Cs overdraft 
limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB Bank plc to take off tax from this interest. TSB must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB responded to say it didnt have any further comments to make in response to the 
provisional decision. Mr C responded and said he didnt agree with the provisional decision. 
He said TSB hadnt asked him for medical evidence before it removed the overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says TSB didnt ask him for medical evidence before it removed the overdraft. However 
Ive already explained Im satisfied it did this following Mr C telling it he was struggling to 
make repayments in October 2019. And because Mr C didnt respond, the overdraft was 
removed. 
As Mr C hasnt provided any new information in response to my provisional decision, it 
follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusions than set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc is required to do the following:
Rework Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after June 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr C is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with TSB to reach a suitable 
agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs 
credit file, TSB should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2019. TSB can also 
reduce the overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr C over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. TSB can also reduce Mr Cs overdraft 
limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB Bank plc to take off tax from this interest. TSB must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman