DRN-2499828
The complaint
Ms I (by way of a representative) complains Morses Club PLC (Morses Club) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Morses Club has told us Ms I had a further loan, taken out on 4 August 2007, but this was 
sold by a different lender. This loan does not form part of this decision as it appears Morses 
Club isnt responsible for the sale. So, I wont be making a finding about it. The remaining 11 
loans, which do form part of this decision, are:
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1*
 2*
 3*
 4*
5 £150 24/01/2013 25/04/2014
6 £300 28/02/2013 outstanding
7 £300 02/05/2013 outstanding
8 £300 16/05/2013 outstanding
9 £500 04/07/2013 outstanding
10 £250 25/07/2013 outstanding
11 £600 01/08/2013 outstanding
*I understand that Morses Club doesnt hold any information about loans 1 to 4, as it didnt 
sell them. 
Morses Club has said that the outstanding balance for loans 6 and 11 was sold to a third 
party in October 2016. It is my understanding that when the complaint was referred to this 
Service there was still an outstanding balance to pay on some, or all, of these loans. 
Our adjudicator thought this Service could only consider loans 5 to 11 as loans 1 to 4 were 
sold by a different lender, who I will call Lender B, and not subsequently purchased by 
Morses Club (who did buy some loans from Lender B). I understand Morses Club has 
accepted responsibility for loans 5 to 11. 
Having reviewed loans 5 to 11, the adjudicator didnt think Morses Club was wrong to lend 
loans 5 to 7. But he felt the remaining loans (8 to 11) shouldnt have been given. 
Morses Club accepts that something may have gone wrong when it provided loans 8 to 11. 
As Ms I hasnt paid any interest towards these loans, it has explained that no refund of 
interest will be payable to her. But it has agreed to remove all the interest that was due to be 
paid for these loans, this means Ms I only has to repay the principal she borrowed.
Morses Club has also agreed to remove adverse information about loans 8 to 11 from Ms Is 
credit file once the outstanding balance has been repaid. 
Ms I disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. She doesnt think the offer is fair because 
of the number of loans lent. Ms I also feels that Morses Club wouldve known how much she 
was struggling at the time. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
To be clear, I am only considering loans 5  11 in the loan table above. 
Morses Club had to assess Ms Is remaining applications for borrowing to check if she could 
afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this 
in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Morses Clubs checks could have 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments and Ms Is income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Morses Club should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms I. These factors include:
Ms I having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms I having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms I coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms I.
At the time, it appears that Morses Club was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). 
The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Morses Club needed to check 
that Ms I could afford to repay her loans sustainably.
The guidance states that creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely 
ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And it states that this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question. 
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Is complaint.loans 1 to 4
Morses Club has no information at all about these four loans. As a result, it says that its 
likely these loans werent purchased from Lender B, but probably settled prior to the 
acquisition of loans 5 to 11 (which it does have information about). Ms I also doesnt seem to 
have any information about the first four loans either. 
I think Morses Club has provided a plausible explanation as to why it doesnt think the loans 
were purchased from Lender B. So, I accept that its a possibility Morses Club didnt 
purchase them from Lender B, which is now in administration. 
Even if I thought Morses Club was responsible for these loans, in the absence of any 
information about them (such as the loan amount, start date and repayment history) it would 
likely be difficult to make a finding about them.  
Considering this, I am not considering loans 1  4 any further. 
loans 5 to 7
Morses Club has accepted responsibility for the sale of all remaining loans. 
I appreciate Ms I was unable to repay loan 5 on time. I say this because Morses Club has 
told us it was due to be repaid over 50 weeks  so, when it was repaid in April 2014 it was 
several weeks over the contractual repayment date. Morses Club has also told us loans 6 
and 7 were referred to a third party to collect the balances in October 2016. 
But, Ive not been able to establish that when loans 6 and 7 were lent in February and May 
2013, Ms I was already experiencing repayment difficulties. There is limited information 
about these loans. So, when she applied for loans 6 and 7, Im not able to say the 
repayment history at that time would, of itself, have alerted Morses Club to question whether 
it should continue to lend or complete additional checks. Ive not seen evidence, for 
example, that Ms I had defaulted on the loans, paid any late fees, or been unable to make 
regular payments before each lending decision was made. 
Ive also thought about the affordability of these loans, although there is no information from 
Morses Club about its checks at the time. Through the representatives complaint 
submission, Ms I indicated her income and expenditure at the time of these loans left her 
with a disposable income of around £370. If this information was declared at the time of 
lending, with the repayment of these loans being over 50 weeks, the weekly instalments for 
loans 5 to 7would probably have seemed affordable and sustainable.
Im sorry to hear that Ms I was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. But based on the limited information available, Im not able to say that loans 5 to 7 
were not properly lent. 
loans 8 to 11
As Morses Club has agreed that loans 8 to 11 shouldnt have been lent, the issue for me to 
decide is what Morses Club should do to put things right considering, for example, Ms Is 
repayment history.  
It may help if I explain our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a business has 
made an error  either because it accepts one has been made, or we decide something has 
gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer should be put back into the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However, that is not always 
possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this one, this service must acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally wed 
expect the consumer to have to repay at least this sum and ask the lender to refund any 
extra that has been repaid by a consumer, for example interest and charges. We also direct 
an additional interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This 
has the effect of providing the consumer with an interest free loan. 
But sometimes a consumer hasnt repaid the money theyve received by the lender. And so, 
it might be the case that there is still an outstanding balance to pay even when considering 
any payments made.
  
Now turning to the specifics of this case, as the adjudicator has explained, because Morses 
Club shouldnt have given Ms I loans 8 to 11, she shouldnt have to repay more than the 
principal sum she borrowed or have the loan affect her credit file in a negative way.
I understand that Ms I hasnt made any interest payments towards these four loans. If this is 
still the position, then no refund will be due to Ms I. Morses Club has though agreed to 
arrange for the interest payable to be removed. It will ask the third party who administers the 
debt to remove it. So, this will then mean that Ms I will only needs to repay any outstanding 
principal for loans 8 to 11 that remains. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances as   
Ms I has had the benefit of this money. 
Morses Club has said that once the outstanding balances are repaid it will instruct the third 
party to remove any negative information about loans 8 to 11 from Ms Is credit file. But as it 
has agreed these loans shouldnt have been provided, the adverse information recorded on 
her credit file should be removed as soon as possible. 
Considering everything, I dont think I can fairly ask Morses Club to do any more. So, for 
clarity, Ive included below what Morses Club needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms I from loan 8, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms I may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms I in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms I would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses Club shouldnt have given Ms I loans 8 - 11. Morses says it has sold the outstanding 
debts, then it should (if it can) buy these loans back and then carry out the following steps. If 
Morses Club is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
Morses Club should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the balance of 
loans 8 - 11, and treat any repayments made by Ms I as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in M I having made 
overpayments then Morses Club should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is still an outstanding balance due then the amounts calculated above can be 
used to repay any balance remaining on any other outstanding loans  assuming 
Morses Club has repurchased the loans. If this results in a surplus then this should 
be paid to Ms I. However, if there is still an outstanding balance Morses Club should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms I. But Id remind Morses Club of its 
obligation to treat Ms I fairly. 
Morses Club should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Is credit file in 
relation to loans 8 -11. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses Club should 
give Ms I a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if Ms I asked for one. 
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Is complaint, in part.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms I as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman