DRN-3240347
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that N26 Bank GmbH registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr Y opened an account with N26. He paired his mobile phone with it, and 
activated his card. Then over the following weeks, Mr Ys account was used to receive 
fraudulent funds and spend them through cash withdrawals and point of sale payments.
Mr Y says this wasnt him. He said his wallet was stolen when hed left it in an unlocked gym 
locker, and it had contained his card and a record of his PIN. It also contained another bank 
card, money, his drivers licence, and a bus pass. He said he opened the account for a 
holiday, but didnt notice his card was missing because he then went on holiday, had left his 
wallet at home, and wasnt checking the account. He said he noticed things were wrong 
when he checked his account while on holiday, but wasnt too concerned about this card and 
didnt want to run up phone costs by calling N26. Alternatively, he said he didnt notice things 
were wrong until he got back from holiday and saw his wallet was missing.  Either way, Mr Y 
did not report anything was wrong to N26.
N26 registered a CIFAS marker against Mr Y.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, they found the following:
Mr Ys account details were not on his card, so if someone stole it they would not 
have had the necessary details to pay money into his account
It was unlikely Mr Y wouldnt have noticed his wallet was missing until he returned 
from holiday, and hed not reported it as stolen
Mr Ys account had been accessed online throughout the period of the fraud, and 
that could not have been done using the card and PIN. So it seemed Mr Y was aware 
of what was happening or even had an active role, but didnt report it. And he didnt 
have to phone N26 from abroad, he couldve just emailed  or at least reported 
things on his return
Mr Y appeared to have started live chats with N26 where he didnt dispute the 
account activity and instead tried to make sure his card was not blocked
The fraud happened over a relatively long period, and the person using the account 
did not seem concerned that Mr Y would get the account blocked
Mr Y didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr Y and N26 a provisional decision on 8 December 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, N26 were not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt 
that Mr Y had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to believe 
that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which had 
appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think N26 did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the possibility that an unknown party (i.e. someone who Mr Y didnt 
know himself) stole his card, paid fraudulent money into his account, checked his online and 
mobile banking, and withdrew or paid out the funds.
In order to pay the fraudulent funds into Mr Ys account, the person arranging the payments 
needed his account details. But Ive looked at a template of the card for Mr Ys account type. 
And it doesnt have any details on it that would allow someone to transfer money into his 
account  such as the account number or sort code. So it would not have been possible for 
an unknown party to have paid Mr Y this money even if they stole his card and PIN.
Mr Ys mobile banking app and online banking were used throughout the period of the fraud. 
Looking at the series of events, it appears that they were used to check when certain 
fraudulent funds had come in.
The mobile app was paired to Mr Ys phone  and according to the technical records, that 
was the only device paired to this account. But Mr Y never mentioned losing his phone, and 
did not respond when we asked him if anything had happened to it. He gave our service the 
same mobile number he used for N26, so it doesnt seem like his phone went missing. 
Further, given how important a smartphone is, I think Mr Y would have noticed if his got 
stolen, and would have mentioned it in his testimony. And its unclear how an unknown party 
could have accessed Mr Ys phone, as it would usually be protected by a passcode or 
fingerprint and so on. Again, Mr Y did not answer our questions about this.
Then in order to access Mr Ys online or mobile banking, one needed either the login details 
 which were wholly different from the card details and PIN, so the unknown party would not 
have known them; or biometric data such as Mr Ys fingerprint  which could only reasonably 
have been done by Mr Y himself.
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
It is possible that someone known to Mr Y may have used his account without his 
permission, such as a friend or family member. But I dont think thats likely either. No one 
had made any payments into Mr Ys N26 account before this, so its not clear how theyd 
have known his account details without discussing it with him. It would not have been 
realistically possible for someone to have used Mr Ys phone so frequently over the weeks 
without him noticing what they were doing. As far as Mr Y has told us, he didnt share his 
online banking details or keep a record of them, so I cant see how a known party would 
have learned them. And they would not have been able to access Mr Ys account using his 
biometric data without his knowledge or consent. Lastly, Mr Y has not told us about anyone 
he knows who he shared his security details with or who he thinks could have done this.
Finally, Ive considered the possibility that the fraudulent activity was carried out by either 
Mr Y himself, or by someone who hed given his permission to.As I explained above, it looks like only Mr Y himself  or someone hed given his login details 
to  could have been accessing his online and mobile banking during the fraud. Mr Y would 
have also received push notifications from the mobile app for each transaction on his 
account. And while the fraud was going on, Mr Ys account was being logged into from some 
of the same IP addresses that Mr Y used when he first set it up. This strongly suggests that 
Mr Y was aware of how his account was being used during the period of fraudulent activity. 
And given that Mr Y never made any payments in or out of the account outside of the fraud, 
any activity should have rung alarm bells for him. But he never reported anything was wrong 
to N26. Even if he was abroad, he could have used email or live chat  he didnt have to 
phone. And he didnt report it when he came back, either.
According to the contact records, it looks like Mr Ys account had three live chats with N26 in 
2019. One was after the fraud had finished, where he asked for his account to be closed. But 
he did not report anything was wrong there. The other two live chats were during the period 
of the fraud, after some incoming fraudulent funds had got blocked. During those chats, its 
recorded that Mr Y checked his account was not blocked and could still be used. This 
suggests he was actively trying to make sure the fraudulent funds could arrive. 
Mr Y did not report his wallet as stolen and has not given us any correspondence to show he 
reported any of the items as stolen  even his other bank card. In fairness, Mr Y did send us 
a picture of a new bus pass and a copy of an email following a driving licence application. 
But theres nothing in that evidence to indicate those are replacements, as opposed to just 
applying for new cards as normal. Indeed, the bus pass he sent was one for an academic 
year, and was dated for the upcoming year after the fraud  it is not a replacement of a pass 
that wouldve been in use in May 2019. So its not clear if he really did lose his N26 card.
Mr Y was also unable to provide any substantial evidence that he was on holiday at the time, 
such as flight records or the stamps in his passport. And things like that should have been 
really quite straightforward to find. He only provided some holiday photos, which could have 
had the dates added after the fact. Further, according to the technical records, Mr Y was 
accessing his mobile app from UK IP addresses, and not from abroad. Of course, this is a 
more minor point  as even if Mr Y was on holiday, he could have still given someone else 
access to his account before he left. But it does call his testimony into question.
Indeed, Mr Ys testimony has been rather inconsistent or implausible at points. For example, 
he said he opened this account for use on holidays, but also said he didnt notice the card 
was missing because he was on holiday. That seems contradictory. Mr Y has also not 
answered what he was doing for money while his holiday card, normal bank card, and the 
cash in his wallet were all missing. And it doesnt seem plausible that he wouldnt notice his 
wallet was missing for weeks on end  its contents were both varied and important. Mr Y 
also gave contradictory testimony about when he noticed things were wrong. This makes it 
very difficult for me to accept any of his versions of events.
Its also worth noting that this account was not used for anything other than receiving and 
passing on fraudulent money. As far as I can see, Mr Y opened the account, got everything 
activated, and then it was used for fraud almost straight away. And the fraud took place over 
quite a few days, so the person using Mr Ys account does not appear to have been 
particularly worried that he would discover what was going on and get the fraudulent money 
frozen. These are more minor points, but they do not support Mr Ys claim that this was a 
genuine account intended for genuine use. However, it fits well with the possibility that Mr Y 
opened the account in order to help pass on fraudulent money. Lastly, I appreciate why Mr Y would like us to get CCTV footage of his card being used. But 
even if the footage were still available after all this time, it wouldve only shown what the 
person making the transactions looked like. It would not have shown whether they had 
Mr Ys permission or not. And as I explained above, there wasnt a plausible or likely way 
that someone could have carried out the fraudulent activity without Mr Ys knowledge or 
consent. So even if it wasnt Mr Y making the transactions himself, it would have been 
someone who had his permission.
In summary: based on the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way that someone would 
have been able to learn Mr Ys account details and security details, access his mobile and 
online banking, and gradually spend fraudulent funds, all without Mr Ys knowledge or 
consent. Mr Y would have been aware of the activity at the time, but did not report it to N26, 
and appears to have even made sure his account was not blocked so the fraudulent activity 
could continue. Mr Ys testimony has not been consistent with itself or some of the wider 
evidence. And Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that 
Mr Y couldve authorised the fraudulent activity or given someone else permission to use his 
account. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Mr Y knowingly and willingly helped 
pass on fraudulent funds. In which case, I think its fair that N26 registered the appropriate 
marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Mr Y to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, 
Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 January 2022. But neither Mr Y nor N26 sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman