DRN-1655565
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in February 
1996 alongside a loan. The PPI was paid for by way of a monthly premium and cost Mr C 
£20 a month and provided cover for him in the event of unemployment or sickness or 
disability. 
Mr C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr C, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear 
the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr Cs agreement to take it out. Mr C says that 
he didnt know he had PPI and it wasnt made clear to him that it was being added.
Nationwide cant provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. So Ive considered Mr Cs comments alongside what we know in general 
about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have happened. 
And based on what I know about how Nationwide sold PPI I wouldve expected there to have 
been conversations with Nationwide about the PPI and paperwork wouldve had to be 
completed to confirm the level of cover and to set up the policy. 
Following these discussions, it seems Mr C wouldve had to sign a loan agreement. 
Nationwide has provided a sample copy of a loan agreement that would be similar to the one 
Mr C wouldve been given. This outlines the monthly the cost of the optional credit 
insurance. I wouldve expected Mr C to query this if he wasnt sure about it and didnt want it 
before signing his loan agreement. 
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional, although I can understand why Mr C may not remember this as it was so long 
ago.
Mr C says Nationwide recommended him the PPI. Nationwide says it didnt provide advice.
Ive looked at the complaint on the basis Mr C was advised to take out the PPI as this places 
a greater level of responsibility on Nationwide as it wouldve had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr C. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I 
say this because:Mr C was eligible for PPI.
It doesnt seem he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
 like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Mr C says he wouldve received any employer benefits at the time, which was six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay if he was off work sick. The PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Mr C was off work unwell. And for up to 12 
months if he lost his job. Mr C was taking on a significant financial commitment. So 
think having the security that his repayments wouldve been made if he was unable 
to work or lost his job wouldve been important to him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr C. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have amended or cancelled the policy if it no 
longer met his needs.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, including his comments in response to the 
adjudicators view. Mr C says his wife was working at the time and they had savings set 
aside. But the PPI wouldve allowed them to keep their savings intact if Mr C was out of 
work. Mr C has also referred to his parents who mayve been able to assist. But 
circumstances change and assistance from friends or family cant be guaranteed should the 
need arise. Mr C has also mentioned he had other accounts and none of these had PPI. 
However, each case is looked at on an induvial basis and the fact he had other credit 
facilities without PPI doesnt mean he didnt agree to take it out with this particular loan. 
So Mr Cs points dont change my decision  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
 
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman