DRN-4464010
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled a claim on his car insurance policy and the impact its had on his premiums.
What happened
Mr B had car insurance cover with Advantage. The policy was a joint one, and Mr B was a 
named driver on his wifes policy.
In November 2021 he was hit from behind by a third party and he made a claim.
Advantage kept the claim open as it wasnt able to recover its losses fully from the third 
party who collided with him. 
This meant that Mr B had to declare hed had a fault claim to his subsequent insurers. Hes 
asked these insurers what impact this has had on his premium and its told him its cost him 
an extra £89.86 this year. 
Mr Bs wife also complained about how Advantage handled the claim and its impact. Her 
complaint reached this service and has already been dealt with separately.
Mr B complained to Advantage about the length of time it was taking to settled the claim and 
the impact on him. It didnt respond directly to his complaint, but it responded by writing to 
his wife. Mr B wasnt happy about this and he made a further complaint. 
Mr B approached this service. He asks that Advantage pays for his increased premium 
(£89.86) and apologises to him for its service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and said she could examine the delays in the 
claim only from December 2022 to March 2023 when Advantage issued its final response. 
This was because the earlier part of the claim and its impact had already been considered 
under Mr Bs wifes earlier complaint. 
She also considered Advantages complaint handling as an ancillary part of his complaint 
about its handling of his claim.
She didnt think it would be upheld. She thought Advantage had provided evidence about 
why the claim took time to settle. And the impact of the claim being open was for Mr B to 
discuss with his current insurer. She looked at the way Advantage had handled his complaint 
and said she thought its service could have been better, but she thought the impact on Mr B 
was minor as he was aware of his wifes complaint and how it had progressed.
Mr B didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly Ill deal with the outstanding claim. I can see from the file that Advantage said it 
recovered its costs in April, and the claim was closed in August 2023. 
Mr B has said it was a simple claim for which he was clearly not at fault. Its important he 
understands that the word fault relates to whether an insurer has recovered its costs from a 
third party. And in Mr Bs case, Advantage struggled to complete this process.
I can see Mr B says Advantage should have been demanding payment every two weeks 
from the third party. But its also the responsibility of an insurance company to mitigate its 
costs and it can reasonably choose how it does this. I dont think this is unfair.
Advantage said it had received partial payment around the time Mr B complained, and had 
to instruct a solicitor to recover the remainder. Once it had done this, it would be able to 
close the claim, which in turn would allow Mr B to update his current insurer. 
Ive looked at Advantages actions in how it dealt with his claim from December 2022 to 
March 2023 and I dont think they were unreasonable.
In his response to the view, Mr B has said he was able to recover £35 from his next insurer 
by updating his information. If hes unhappy about the amount hes received, hes free to 
make a complaint to that insurer, and this service in due course if he remains unhappy.
Mr B has also raised issues about the way the insurance industry operates. He thinks its 
unfair that he, effectively, had to carry some additional costs until the claim was settled. This 
service isnt the regulator. Were an informal dispute resolution service. If Mr B has further 
comments about the industry then hes free to approach the regulator, which is the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
He also says he is still waiting for a response from Advantage about his complaint. I think it 
would be useful for Mr B to understand why Advantage wrote to his wife seemingly in 
response to his complaint. Under her policy with Advantage, she had full authority for it. In 
other words, when an event took place under it, she would be the person notified. The 
outcome of this is, Advantage emailed her (which was her communication preference) 
instead of writing to Mr B (which was his communication preference). 
I think its fair I say Advantage should have done better here, despite what its said about the 
way the policy was set up. It seems to me that the fair response would have been for it to 
respond to Mr B telling him why it was carrying out the actions it was.
Ive considered the impact on Mr B. From the evidence I have, he was aware of his wifes 
complaint and it seems likely this was reciprocal. And although I think Advantage could have 
improved its response, I cant see theres been a detriment to Mr B caused by its handling of 
his complaint.
Mr B has also raised with this service that he thinks Advantage may have contravened the 
Data Protection Act by writing to his wife rather than him. Were not the experts on data 
protection and the General Data Protection Regulations. But Ive looked into what Mr B has 
said about his data being shared with his wife and again I cant see a detriment to him as the 
file seems to show me that information was being passed between them about the claim and 
complaint. So taking everything into account, I cant say Advantage handled the claim or his complaint 
unfairly and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman