DRN-3250211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that a refund they are due has not been credited to their account with 
Bank of Scotland plc.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a joint account with Halifax  which is a trading name of Bank of Scotland 
plc. 
In November 2017 they bought a vacuum cleaner from a retailer, C. It cost £299.99 and they 
paid using a debit card linked to the joint account. 
In or about November 2020 the vacuum cleaner failed, and Mr and Mr J returned it to C. 
Because it was still under warranty, they sought a refund. C agreed that they were entitled to 
one and said that it had been processed. 
Mr and Mrs J did not receive the refund. Because of the time which had passed since the 
purchase, the card to which the refund had been made was no longer valid. 
Mr and Mrs Js daughter, who is representing them, has explained that she has had several 
calls with both C and Halifax but that they have not been able to arrange a refund. Halifax 
did make a modest payment to recognise the inconvenience and to cover telephone costs. 
Mr and Mrs J referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. 
She accepted that Mr and Mrs J were due a refund but did not consider that Halifax had 
done anything wrong. It was for C to process the refund, and the investigator provided 
information about a similar ombudsman scheme to which C subscribes. 
Mr and Mrs J did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There does not appear to be any dispute that C has agreed to a refund. It is therefore 
primarily for C to ensure that one is made. And, whilst it would be usual for any refund to be 
made to the card used for the original payment, that is not the only way in which C can make 
a payment. There seems to be no reason why it couldnt make a direct transfer or send Mr 
and Mrs J a cheque. I have no power to consider any complaint about C, however; I can only 
address the complaint about Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs Js daughter has said that her mother has had four different debit cards since 
2017, which may explain why a refund has not been possible. It would also be usual for debit 
cards to be issued to each account holder, and that appears to have been the case here. 
The number of different cards which had been linked to the account since the purchase are 
likely to have added to the confusion.
So, whilst I think it likely that C has tried to make a refund, it does not appear to have done 
so in a way which enables Halifax to apply it to Mr and Mrs Js account. I do not believe that 
I can fairly conclude that Halifax is to blame for that. It is perhaps unsurprising that it has not 
been able to apply any refund made by reference to an expired card  as this one would 
have been. 
The investigator considered as well whether Halifax could have submitted a chargeback 
request in order to obtain a refund. She said that, by the time the refund was claimed, the 
relevant time limits had passed. Chargeback is a process for challenging certain card 
payments, including those where a refund has been agreed but has not been made. The 
time limit for making a claim generally runs from the date of the payment, depending on the 
card scheme and the type of claim. But, on any basis, the time limit here expired long before 
November 2020, so it was in my view reasonable of Halifax not to make a chargeback 
request. 
As I have indicated, I think the primary responsibility for the refund here lies with C. I am not 
persuaded that Halifax has received a refund in a way which enables it to process it and to 
apply it to Mr and Mrs Js account.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman