DRN-3570415
The complaint
Mrs P, on behalf of the estate of Mr P, complains that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited unfairly avoided Mr Ps term assurance policy, and declined a claim following his 
death, on the grounds of misrepresentation. 
Mrs P has been supported in her complaint by a professional representative. But for 
simplicity, Ill only refer to Mrs P in this decision.   
What happened
Mr P applied for a £100,000 level term assurance policy (the policy) with Legal and General 
in November 2011. Cover started in December 2011. 
Mr P sadly died in January 2019 and Mrs P contacted Legal and General to make a claim 
under the policy. 
Due to the cause of Mr Ps death, Legal and General obtained information from his GP to 
assess the claim. On receipt of this information, it avoided the policy (declined the claim and 
cancelled the policy from the start). It considered Mr P had misrepresented his true alcohol 
consumption at the point of application. It said had it known Mr Ps true alcohol consumption 
it wouldnt have offered him any cover. It returned the premiums paid to Mrs P. 
Mrs P referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She didnt agree Mr P had 
misrepresented his alcohol consumption at the point of application. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied Legal and 
General had fairly and reasonably demonstrated, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr P 
had most likely misrepresented his alcohol consumption at the time of applying for cover. 
She was also persuaded Legal and General had demonstrated that, had it known about 
Mr Ps actual alcohol consumption, it wouldnt have offered him any cover. So, she 
concluded it had acted fairly by avoiding the policy and declining the claim. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for her complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. She said there was no conclusive evidence that Mr P drank more than he declared 
when he applied for cover. She noted that Mr P had declared quite a high level of 
consumption at the point of application (seven drinks three times a week) and so Legal and 
General had already accepted the risk of insuring him. She also disagreed with both 
Legal and General and our Investigators interpretation of the medical evidence. She said 
while the evidence from Mr Ps GP and Community Addiction Practitioner indicated a high 
level of alcohol consumption in 2012/13, this couldnt be conflated to mean hed been 
drinking this much the year before when he applied for cover.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs P, and her family, for the tragic loss of 
her husband. Its clear the family has been through an incredibly difficult time. And I can see 
that pursuing this claim has been particularly upsetting for them all. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise this will come as a bitter disappointment to Mrs P. Id like to reassure her 
that I havent taken this decision lightly. I appreciate this complaint has arisen from some 
very difficult circumstances, and I dont underestimate the emotional toll this case has taken 
on her and her family. I dont want to add to the distress theyve already experienced. But for 
the reasons Ill explain I dont think Legal and General was unreasonable to avoid the policy 
or decline the claim. So, I dont think Mrs P has been treated unfairly.
While reviewing this complaint Ive taken account of the relevant laws, regulatory rules and 
codes of practice  the main one here being the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers 
Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness 
and Income Protection September 2019 (the code), which was in force at the time Legal and 
General issued its final response. The code mirrors the Financial Ombudsmans 
longstanding approach to cases like this. 
The code sets out to ensure insurers act fairly and consistently when they discover, at the 
point of claim, misrepresentations that occurred during the application process. It sets out 
the remedies an insurer can reasonably take if it is established that a misrepresentation 
occurred due to the consumer failing to exercise reasonable care. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
When applying for the policy, Mr P was advised of the importance of answering all questions 
honestly, accurately and to the best of his knowledge. The application form carried a warning 
that any future claims could be declined and the policy cancelled, if the answers provided 
were incorrect. 
After the application was completed, Legal and General sent Mr P a Checking Your Details 
form (CYD), along with a copy of his application form. The CYD warned If your answers or 
any other statements made about your application are not correct, incomplete or are out of 
date we can refuse any claim and cancel your policy or policies. Mr P signed and returned 
the CYD on 12 December 2011, confirming his answers were true and complete. 
As such, Im satisfied Legal and General did enough to draw Mr Ps attention to the 
importance of answering all questions truthfully and accurately, and the potential 
consequences if he didnt do so. 
As part of the application Mr P was asked: 
How often do you have a drink containing alcohol? 
On how many days during a typical week do you drink alcohol? 
On a typical day when you have alcohol, please tell us how much beer, strong beer, wine, 
spirits and other alcohol you drink.
Mr P declared that he drank alcohol weekly, and that he typically drank seven drinks of 
normal strength beer, lager or cider three times a week. Legal and General considers that 
Mr P misrepresented the true quantity he drank, as his medical records show that, within a 
year of applying for cover, he sought medical help due to alcohol abuse. It noted that on 
5 December 2012 Mr Ps GP had recorded he consulted regarding heavy alcohol abuse, taking 8+ cans of beer every day for months, lost business in recession, not working, partly 
related wants to address alcohol issues. Advised re referral to community addictions.
In February 2013 Mr P was seen by a Community Addiction Team. In a letter to Mr Ps GP 
the Community Addiction Practitioner, who Ill refer to as Ms H noted He reported an 8 year 
history of heavy drinking, drinking up to 10 cans of beer nightly. He was offered inpatient 
admission to the Addiction Unit [] but declined this.
There is no clear, explicit evidence of how much alcohol Mr P was consuming at the point he 
applied for cover.  And sadly, we cant ask Mr P for his recollection of events or for a further 
explanation about his alcohol consumption at the time. As such, all were left with is the 
available medical evidence. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
While I can appreciate this may feel unsatisfactory, or even unfair to Mrs P, Im satisfied this 
is the appropriate standard of proof, as it is in line with the civil standard of proof. 
As such, the issue Im considering is not whether Mr P was recorded to have drunk more 
alcohol than he declared, rather whether the evidence supports that its more likely than not 
that he consumed more alcohol than he declared. Ive also considered whether he could and 
should reasonably have disclosed this in response to Legal and Generals application 
questions. 
In the absence of more compelling evidence, I consider the letter from Ms H likely provides 
the most reliable record of Mr Ps alcohol consumption. I say this because the evidence 
shows Mr P had proactively sought support with his alcohol issues. In the circumstances, 
given Mr P seemed motivated to change his behaviour, I think its more likely than not he 
would have engaged openly and honestly with the Addiction Team about his true alcohol 
consumption. And its recorded he reported an 8 year history of heavy drinking, drinking up 
to 10 cans of beer nightly. 
I appreciate that the words up to means that there were likely some fluctuations in Mr Ps 
alcohol consumption. But I think its significant that he reported drinking nightly, which was 
significantly more than he declared on his application form i.e. that he drank three days a 
week. It is also consistent with the GP records which noted that he had been drinking every 
day. While the GP records say this level of drinking had happened for months, I dont think 
this necessarily contradicts what Ms H later reported. I also dont think its unreasonable to 
think Mr P may have provided a more candid account of his alcohol consumption to the 
Addiction Team than his GP. 
Ive given very careful consideration to Mrs Ps suggestion that the relevant sentence in 
Ms Hs letter (as quoted above) should be interpreted as being two distinct statements i.e. 
that Mr P had an eight year history of heavy drinking, and that at the time of receiving advice 
he drank up to ten cans of beer nightly. But I dont think that interpretation is the most 
reasonable in the circumstances. Had Ms H wanted to make two separate points I would 
have expected her to do so in two separate sentences. Or, alternatively, I would have 
expected Ms H to add in something to link what she was saying to the current timeframe, for 
example by saying recently he has been drinking up to 10 cans of beer nightly. 
Mrs P has also suggested that Mr P may have significantly increased his alcohol intake 
sometime after applying for the policy, but before seeking help in December 2012. While I 
accept this is a possibility, theres no evidence to suggest that most likely happened. For 
example, Im not aware of any incidents in between the policy starting and Mr P seeking help that may have precipitated an increase in his alcohol consumption, and again theres nothing 
to suggest this narrative in either the GP records or the letter from Ms H. As such, I think it is 
more likely than not Ms H simply summarised how Mr P had described his drinking habits 
over the previous eight years, which included nightly drinking and drinking up to ten cans of 
beer a day. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Ps own recollections of Mr Ps drinking habits. I can 
see that when Legal and General asked her about Mr Ps drinking habits she thought hed 
drank in similar quantities to what hed declared on the application form  i.e. a few beers 
three days a week - which would on the face of it appear persuasive. But I must also factor 
in that Mrs P was not aware that Mr P had been referred to the Addiction Team, and so I 
think its likely she wasnt aware of the true extent of his alcohol consumption. 
While we are unable to know for certain what Mr Ps drinking habits were at the time of 
applying for cover, given the available evidence, I think Legal and General reasonably 
concluded that hed most likely misrepresented his true alcohol consumption. It seems more 
likely than not that Mr P was drinking both more frequently than he disclosed, and a greater 
number of drinks than he disclosed. 
What difference would the misrepresentation have made to Legal and Generals decision to 
offer cover?
Without clear evidence to show exactly what Mr P drank at the point of application, it is 
impossible to know with certainty how the policy would have been underwritten. But Legal 
and General has provided us with its underwriting guidance and commentary which 
demonstrates that had Mr P disclosed he drank 10 drinks of normal strength beer every day, 
in line with what he told Ms H, it would have been unable to offer him any cover. But even if 
hed disclosed that he drank fractionally more than he disclosed on the application (seven 
drinks three times a week) it would have required more information, including a medical 
examination and blood tests. As such, Im persuaded the misrepresentation did induce Legal 
and General to offer the policy on terms it otherwise wouldnt have offered. 
The code sets out the remedies an insurer can take when it discovers relevant information 
was misrepresented at the point of application. The remedy depends on how the 
misrepresentation is classified - either deliberate or reckless or careless. Legal and 
General considers Mr P acted deliberately or recklessly when he answered the questions 
relating to his alcohol consumption. The code sets out that where there has been a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation the insurer can avoid the policy (treat it as though it 
never existed), and therefore decline any associated claims. 
The code explains that a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation occurs when on balance 
of probabilities, the customer knew, or must have known, that the information was both 
incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or the customer acted without any care as to whether it 
was either correct or relevant to the insurer. The code goes on to explain since lifestyle 
information is usually more familiar and easier for customers to understand, it follows that 
customer should give a particularly credible and convincing explanation for clearly evidenced 
misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or reckless. Having carefully considered 
all the circumstances, including the fact that Mr Ps alcohol consumption was best known to 
him and noting the clear warning hed been given about the importance of providing accurate 
information, Im unable to conclude Legal and General acted unreasonably by classifying 
Mr Ps misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. It therefore follows that I consider it was 
entitled to avoid the policy. 
Overall, while I can understand Mrs Ps disappointment that the claim has been declined, Im 
satisfied Legal and General has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by avoiding the policy and declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman