DRN-3851872
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of goods supplied to him by Telefonica UK Limited under a 
fixed sum loan.
What happened
Telefonica supplied Mr T with a mobile device financed by a fixed sum loan in June 2021. I 
understand that Mr T subsequently raised issue with the quality of that device directly with 
the manufacturer and it was replaced in April 2022. 
Its my understanding that Mr T then raised a complaint with Telefonica regarding a fault with 
the replacement device hed been provided by the manufacturer. Telefonica responded in 
August 2022. It said that Mr Ts device was no longer covered by any warranties or 
insurance products associated with Telefonica, so it declined to take further action and gave 
referral rights to this service. 
Mr T referred the matter here. He said that he believed relevant law says he is entitled to 
expect the goods to last for a reasonable amount of time, and they havent.
 Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr T hadnt reported any issues 
with the device to Telefonica until August 2022, at which point it was outside of Telefonicas 
warranty period. They accepted that relevant legislation said the goods supplied to Mr T 
needed to be of satisfactory quality, but they werent persuaded that was the case. Overall, 
they concluded that Telefonica had no responsibility to repair or replace the goods as Mr T 
had requested. 
Mr T disagreed. He suggested that a lifespan of 13 months on such a device isnt 
acceptable, highlighted that the replacement device went wrong after three months, and said 
that theres a reasonable expectation for it to work for the duration of the associated airtime 
agreement he was sold  two years.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it explaining why I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said;
Mr Ts complaint is about the quality of goods provided under a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Thats a regulated agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a 
complaint about.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this case. It implies terms into the 
agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. Thats defined as meeting 
the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account the 
description of the goods, price paid, and other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality 
also refers to durability.
Mr T was provided with a brand-new mobile phone, so Id expect it to be free from faults for 
a considerable period of time. Theres no obligation for Telefonica to ensure that the device 
worked correctly for the duration of Mr Ts agreement with it  either the fixed sum loan used 
to finance the purchase or the airtime agreement which allowed Mr T to access a mobile 
network.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was 
present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for Mr T to show that the goods were not of 
satisfactory quality.
I cant say for sure whether the original device supplied by Telefonica was of satisfactory 
quality. Thats because it was replaced by the manufacturer within a year of Mr Ts 
ownership, and Mr T hasnt given any specific details as to why the manufacturer took that 
step. On the basis that the manufacturer replaced it, I think its reasonable to accept that it 
likely wasnt of satisfactory quality.
That being the case, if the matter had been presented to Telefonica at the time  and it 
doesnt seem it was  Id have expected it to take steps to put things right, such as repairing 
or replacing the device. That happened, albeit without Telefonicas involvement.
Despite the device being replaced under what seems to have been a warranty claim, 
Telefonicas still answerable for a complaint about its quality  the repair or replacement of 
such a device by the manufacturer doesnt absolve Telefonica its obligations. To uphold that 
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the second device supplied to Mr T was not of 
satisfactory quality  taking into account the time passed and events which have happened 
since the start of the agreement.
In determining whether thats the case Ive carefully considered the evidence which Mr T has 
provided. It seems that when his device was replaced, the manufacturer gave Mr T a 
warranty on it. Mr T has provided evidence from the manufacturer which, having inspected 
the device, has declined to repair or replace it on the basis that it has been damaged or 
modified in such a way that it is not covered by the manufacturers warranty.
I think its reasonable to rely on the manufacturers inspection of the device. It seems to 
blame the devices failure on having been damaged or modified. Mr T hasnt offered any 
alternative evidence as to the failure. So, in the absence of any persuasive evidence which 
contradicts the manufacturers findings, I cannot fairly conclude that device was not of 
satisfactory quality. So, taking all of the above into account, I dont intend to require further 
action of Telefonica.
Mr T suggested the manufacturer found the devices (charging) port was corroded as a 
result of water damage. He said hed asked for a check of the inbuilt moisture sensors, but 
the manufacturer refused. Mr T said the device had not been misused and the problem hed 
experienced was commonly occurring in that particular model.
Telefonica said that it wasnt aware the manufacturer had replaced the device it had 
originally supplied to Mr T.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further points made by both Mr T and Telefonica but they 
havent caused me to change my mind on the case. Ill explain why.As my provisional decision covered, I might have required further action from Telefonica if 
Mr T could persuade me that the device he was provided with wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
taking into account the time passed since the start of the agreement. 
However, Mr T has provided comments from the devices manufacturer which suggests that 
the devices failure was due to having been damaged or modified. Mr T has not provided 
what I consider to be persuasive evidence  specific to his device  to the contrary. I think 
its reasonable to rely on what the manufacturer found when it inspected the device. 
That being the case, and for the reasons explained above as well as in my provisional 
decision, I cannot fairly require Telefonica to take further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman