DRN-3155503
The complaint
Miss B (through a representative) has complained Naylors Finance Limited (Naylors) kept 
giving her new loans without checking whether the lending was affordable for her. 
Miss B also says it wasnt explained to her how much the loans would cost to repay them.
 
What happened
Miss B took five loans from Naylors between January 2020 and August 2020. A summary of 
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Naylors can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment
1 £100.00 30/01/2020 26/05/2020 27 £6.00
2 £100.00 26/05/2020 04/08/2020 27 £6.00
3 £100.00 05/07/2020 01/04/2021 27 £6.00
4 £200.00 04/08/2020 01/04/2021 27 £12.00
5 £100.00 27/08/2020 01/04/2021 27 £6.00
From around the middle of October 2020 Miss B had some repayment problems. And it 
seems, based on the statement of account, that loans 3 - 5 may have been repaid on 1 April 
2021. However, it is also possible, these accounts have been marked as dormant  as the 
statement of account says or passed to a third-party collection agency. Naylors final 
response letter does suggest an outstanding balance remains. 
The weekly repayment amount in the table above, is the cost per week per loan. So, if more 
than one loan was running at the same time Miss Bs weekly commitment would be greater. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said Naylors had carried out 
proportionate checks for loans 1  4 and these checks showed Naylors that Miss B could 
afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
He did say that by loan 5, Naylors needed to do further, more in-depth checks. But he wasnt 
able to say what Naylors wouldve seen had it carried out these further checks. Finally, he 
also didnt think Miss Bs loan history on its own, suggested to Naylors that it ought to not 
have provided the loans.  
Naylors didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Bs representative didnt agree with the adjudicator. In response it said;
The loan history was a sign that Miss B was reliant on these loans. 
From loan 2, Miss B had more than one loan running at the same time. 
By loan 4 Miss Bs indebtedness had increased indicating she was having financial 
difficulties and the lending was now unsustainable for her. 
Further checks needed to have been carried out by loan 4. 
No evidence has been provided to show Naylors carried out further checks for the 
later loans. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss Bs representative and explained that while she did have 
a number of loans running at the same time, the repayments were low compared to Miss Bs 
declared income and expenditure. 
The adjudicator was still satisfied that further checks needed to be conducted when loan 5 
was approved, but he wasnt able to say what further checks wouldve shown Naylors 
because this Service didnt have any information about Miss Bs financial situation at the 
time. 
Miss Bs payment history was good while these loans were approved. She got into difficulties 
but not until after loan 5 had been granted. 
Miss Bs representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
So, the case has now been given to me to issue a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided.
Naylors needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Naylors should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that Naylors was required to establish whether Miss B 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication aconsumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Loans 1- 4
For each of these loans it seems that Naylors asked Miss B about her income and 
expenditure. She declared a weekly income of between £605 and £426 and weekly 
expenses of between £235 and £115.
It also looks like for the first loan, that Naylors at least saw some online bank statements. But 
it hasnt noted on the form what statements it saw or for what time period. I would add, that 
Ive not seen the statements the income and expenditure form refers to. So, I dont know 
what else Naylors may have seen in the statements. 
Given the fairly modest weekly amounts that Miss B was committed to paying Naylors, I do 
think it carried out a proportionate check for each of these loans. And the checks it carried 
out highlighted to it that Miss B would likely be able to afford the commitments she was 
having to make. 
I appreciate Mis Bs representative has said that by loan 4 further checks needed to be 
done, but I dont agree. She did have two loans running at the same time, and while loan 4 
was her largest capital loan to date, the repayments of it were still modest compared to what 
she had declared about her expenses. 
But as it was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Naylors to have gathered the level of information needed to show it these loans were 
unaffordable. So, for Miss Bs loan I think Naylors carried out proportionate checks which 
showed Miss B was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making.
Finally, for these loans, I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely 
Naylors was made aware of any financial problems Miss B mightve been having. Or 
anything that wouldve prompted Naylors to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think 
it was reasonable for Naylors to rely on the information it obtained and approve these loans. 
Loan 5
Our adjudicator concluded that by this loan Naylors needed to do further checks into 
Miss Bs financial circumstances. So, he was satisfied that relying on Miss Bs income and 
expenditure was no longer enough  even though this showed Naylors the loan was likely to 
be affordable. I agree with the adjudicator, however, that doesnt mean I can uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about this loan. 
I agree with the adjudicator that Naylors needed to carry out further checks when it approved 
this loan. Miss B had been indebted to Naylors for around 8 months and she was coming 
back for another loan and extending her indebtedness for a further 17 weeks. By loan 5, Miss B was committing to pay Naylors £24 per week, a significant increase on her 
previous loans. This was mainly because, by the time of loan 5, she had three outstanding 
loans with Naylors. 
Looking at the application form Naylors was still aware that Miss B was receiving £450 per 
week in benefits and had weekly outgoings of around £104. So, the payment of £24 (to take 
into account the repayments for loans 3  5) wouldve still looked affordable. 
But by loan 5, I think Naylors needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of 
Miss Bs financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for 
evidence of her income and then asked for evidence of what bills she had.
Alternately, Naylors couldve requested copies of Miss Bs bank statements which wouldve 
given it an accurate picture of her financial position and wouldve highlighted any financial 
difficulties she may have been having.
Naylors didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 5. But that isnt 
the end of the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Naylors shouldnt have given this 
loan, I have to be satisfied that not only did Naylors not carry out a proportionate check, but 
by not carrying out a proportionate check has this caused Miss B a loss  that being the loan 
ought not to have been approved because it wouldve found out that it was unaffordable.
I havent been provided with any evidence from Miss B as to what her financial position was 
at the time either through bank statements or a credit file. Without this evidence I cant 
conclude that Naylors wouldve discovered that Miss B couldnt afford this loan. 
Therefore, while Naylors havent carried out a proportionate check, I dont know what it may 
have discovered, Im therefore not upholding Miss Bs complaint about this loan. 
Unsustainable lending 
Ive also considered whether the lending was unsustainable for Miss B.  Ive thought about 
whether her lending history up to loan 4 and beyond was an indication the loans werent 
sustainable. But like the adjudicator I dont quite think the lending pattern was enough to 
uphold the complaint. 
Miss Bs commitment to Naylors was still quite modest compared to her declared income 
and expenditure, and while by loan 5 she had 3 loans running concurrently  which may 
have been a cause for concern. That, on its own, isnt enough for me to uphold the 
complaint. 
However, there wasnt any obvious repayment problems at this time. Neither is there 
anything in the regulations to suggest that having more than one loan running at the same 
time isnt allowed. So, I agree, with the adjudicator that the lending history wasnt quite yet at 
the point where I think it wouldve shown Naylors that the lending was now unsustainable for 
Miss B. 
Finally, I can see from the credit agreement for each loan that it set out how much Miss B 
was borrowing, the term of each loan, how much her weekly commitments were as well as 
the total amount that she needed to repay. So, I think, given the credit agreements, that 
Naylors did provide sufficient information to Miss B to show her the cost of the credit. 
Overall, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate that Miss B will be disappointed 
with the outcome of her complaint, but I hope my explanation has been helpful in explaining 
the reasons why Ive come to this decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman