DRN-4063923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc cancelled their motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr and Mrs J took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by Covea in 2022.
When taking out the policy, they were asked whether theyd made any claims in the 
preceding five years. They declared one, from 2021.
After the policy began, Covea became aware of a second claim, from 2018. It sent a 
letter and an email asking Mr and Mrs J to pay an additional premium or let it know if 
they thought the second claim information was wrong. It gave them seven days to get 
in touch  or the policy would be cancelled and a fee would be charged. When they 
didnt get in touch by the deadline, Covea cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs J werent happy with this. They questioned why Covea hadnt called 
them before cancelling the policy. And they said their previous insurer hadnt asked 
for this level of claim information, which is why they didnt provide it. They thought it 
was unfair to pay a cancellation fee, higher premiums for a new policy, and have to 
declare the cancellation in future. Overall, they thought Covea had cancelled the 
policy without giving them a reasonable chance to pay the additional premium.
Covea didnt change its position. It said it had correctly followed its process. And it 
was entitled to ask for different information to other insurers.
Our investigator thought Covea had acted fairly. She said it had been clear about 
what information should be provided and the consequences of not doing so. And as it 
had contacted Mr and Mrs J by two different methods, that was sufficient.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They said the email had gone into a junk folder, so it wasnt 
seen. And the letter was dated and arrived after the cancellation date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says Covea is entitled to cancel the policy by sending seven days written 
notice to your last known address for a number of reasons. Im satisfied that 
includes this situation, where an additional premium and/or information is due in 
order for the policy to continue. It also says it will charge a £55 cancellation fee. Im 
satisfied these terms are clear. Theyre also consistent with other insurers.
Like any insurer, Covea is entitled to ask whatever questions it thinks are relevant 
when deciding whether to provide motor insurance  and on what terms and at what 
cost. Whilst Mr and Mrs Js previous insurer may not have wanted to know about the 
claim from 2018, Covea did. And the question it asked was clear about that.
It doesnt seem to be in doubt that Mr and Mrs J did have a 2018 claim and didnt 
declare it. When Covea found out about it, it gave Mr and Mrs J the opportunity to 
pay the additional premium to maintain the policy. It also set out the key details about 
its cancellation process if Mr and Mrs J didnt get in touch by the deadline. Im 
satisfied Covea acted in line with its policy and the relevant rules.
The crux of this dispute is about how Covea communicated this. It followed its own 
policy by sending a letter giving seven days notice. It went a step further, by also 
sending an email. Both were sent seven days prior to cancellation. Given the 
importance of the message  and the risk of a letter not arriving in time  I think this 
was a reasonable thing to do and in line with best practice. Whilst I can see why Mr 
and Mrs J may have appreciated a call, I dont think Covea was obliged to do this.
Ultimately, the email was received on time. I cant hold Covea responsible for the 
email going into a junk folder and not being seen by Mr and Mrs J. Its unclear when 
this letter was received. The letter Mr and Mrs J say was dated and received after the 
cancellation is a different one  this is confirmation of what happened, which is why 
its dated later.
As Covea didnt hear from Mr and Mrs J before the deadline, it was entitled to cancel 
the policy. It wasnt obliged to later reinstate the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied Covea acted fairly when it cancelled the policy.
I know having to declare a policy cancellation has consequences for Mr and Mrs J. 
But as Covea acted fairly, I dont hold it responsible for those consequences.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman