DRN-1194321
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC acted when it was asked for advice with a 
possible scam on his accounts, then when it was notified that there had been a scam 
affecting the accounts and asked to help.
What happened
This complaint is one of three, brought by Mr and Mrs S dealing with their individual and joint 
accounts. Although I will produce three decisions on these complaints, the responses are not 
substantively different. This decision deals with the couple's joint complaint.
On 22 May 2019 a call was made to the home of Mr and Mrs S, from someone claiming to 
be a television services provider. Some information about Lloyds accounts was disclosed 
during that conversation. 
Mr S twice contacted Lloyds after this call, on behalf of himself and Mrs S. He told Lloyds 
that information about accounts had been disclosed on a call, which he now understood 
wasn't genuine. Mr S was told by Lloyds there was very little that a fraudster could do with 
these details. He said either Lloyds call handler should have transferred him to the fraud 
team, or should have told him about the different types of fraud that Lloyds is aware of that 
follow this pattern. That would have meant the couple were less likely to fall victim to it. 
Lloyds accepts this.
Another call was made to Mr and Mrs S later that day, and the couple were persuaded to 
move their money. This was a scam. Fortunately, none of the money was ultimately lost, but 
it was not immediately clear that this would be the case. This was an extremely stressful 
time for Mr S.
Mr S then experienced repeated problems with internet banking, and although he asked 
Lloyds what was wrong, it didnt link this up to the previous fraud problems straight away. 
These accounts are being monitored because of that fraud, and Lloyds said that it was sorry 
it hadnt told him this right away. 
Lloyds accepts that it has made mistakes, and missed opportunities to prevent fraud. It also 
accepts that it failed to support Mr S appropriately when it was alerted to the fraud. It has 
moved money back to the original accounts.
Lloyds has paid Mr S £500 to say sorry for what went wrong. 
Our investigator agreed that the service Lloyds gave shouldve been better, but he said that 
he thought compensation of £500 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S replied. He felt the service shouldve been much better. Mr S said he was made to feel 
humiliated on his third call to Lloyds, after he realised there had been fraud. He said the stress of this affected his health at the time. Mr S thought that Lloyds payment to him should 
be £1,000. He said that he wasn't even supported after the event.
Because Mr S didn't agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Lloyds has let Mr S down. Like our investigator, I think that this is particularly 
true of the calls that were made before any money was moved. I think that Lloyds missed an 
opportunity to help its customers avoid being scammed. 
I also think that Lloyds shouldve provided better support after the scam. It didn't deal 
sympathetically with the issue or offer the practical help I would expect. I think this caused 
additional stress to Mr S, at what was already an extremely difficult time. 
I can see that Lloyds accepts its failings in this case. Its said sorry, and it has paid Mr S 
£500. Mr S says thats not enough. 
I think this was an awful experience for Mr S, and Lloyds missed opportunities to either avoid 
it altogether, or to lessen the stress he was experiencing. He was concerned a large amount 
of money might be lost forever. Fortunately, it was all returned, and Lloyds has said that it 
will cover the lost interest from Mr Ss regular saver that it cant pay the money back into. 
I dont wish to downplay the unpleasantness of this. But I do think that what Lloyds has paid 
Mr S is the right amount to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. He might 
like to know that he has received an amount that our service would consider a substantial 
award. 
I think that what Lloyds has paid is in line with what I wouldve awarded, if this payment 
hadnt already been made. 
I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but because I think Lloyds has already done enough to 
say sorry for what went wrong, I dont think it has to do any more. And that means I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman