DRN-2004589
The complaint
Mr W complains that Equifax Limited unnecessarily obstructed his request for access to his 
credit file and took too long to respond to his complaint. He wants an explanation and 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W tells us that in November 2019 he tried to access his Statutory Credit Report through 
an online application via Equifax. He says that his application failed due to him being 
required to provide evidence of identity and to contact Equifax. He feels the process followed 
by Equifax was too complex and that it was too slow in responding to his complaint.
Equifax told us that Mr Ws account had been locked due to security reasons. And that it had 
required him to verify his identity. It accepted there had been a delay in responding to his 
complaint. It offered to send the credit file by post and £50 compensation for the delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
various aspects of Mr Ws complaint were outside the jurisdiction of this service and more 
appropriately dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And he felt the 
request for confirmation of identity was reasonable. He thought Equifax apology and offer of 
£50 for the delay was fair.
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I accept that it would be frustrating for Mr W to face delays in accessing his credit record 
online. And that having been unable to complete the process, it would be annoying to face 
further delays before having the complaint resolved and being provided with the requested 
information. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen that our investigator explained the limitations of the role of this service in dealing 
with all aspects of Mr Ws complaint. I shant comment in detail on this other than to say I 
agree with the information provided.
Its a matter for each business to determine how to comply with the need to protect private 
information. I think its entirely reasonable for the identity of an individual seeking to access 
personal and financial information to be ascertained. When Mr Ws identity couldnt be 
verified immediately it was reasonable for Equifax to seek further proof. 
Ill deal with other issues raised by Mr W, in his initial complaint and when he replied to our 
investigators view and sought an ombudsmans decision.
In terms of Equifax systems and staff training these are not matters which fall within the 
jurisdiction of this service to determine.
Regarding the delay in resolving Mr Ws complaint, he suggests the timelines mentioned in 
the investigators view were distorted. I disagree.
Equifax issued a final response letter (FRL) within the time permitted by the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP). DISP 1.6.2 requires this to be done within eight weeks of the 
complaint being received. That response might not have resolved the complaint to Mr Ws 
satisfaction, but it met the requirements of the relevant rule. These include advising a 
complainant that a complaint has been rejected and providing reasons. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and the ICO. And Equifax later sent a further 
response on 23 April 2020 in which it said it would send the SCR by post and offered £50 by 
way of compensation for the delay.
I agree that it would have been preferable if such a solution had been offered before. But the 
nature of any complaint process inevitably involves more delay than is ideal.
In terms of the compensation offered by Equifax, our investigator correctly explained that the 
role of this service is not to impose penalties upon a business even if service levels fall 
below expected standards. And not every complaint where an error is revealed requires a 
business to make an offer of monetary compensation. Particularly so where no direct 
financial loss has arisen due to any error or delay.
Taking the overall circumstances of this complaint which fall within the scope of this service, 
the offer of £50 compensation by Equifax is more than I wouldve been minded to award had 
it not already been offered. In my view an apology would be sufficient. And this was also 
provided in Equifax response of 23 April. I shant be asking Equifax to do anything else. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman