DRN-3833904
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1997. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Miss B did not agree with that view. She said she had not agreed to buy a PPI policy and 
that the cover had been added without her knowledge. Miss B also told us that she did not 
need a PPI policy because she had access to significant savings if she ran into financial 
difficulty. 
As Miss B did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I have to apply the balance of 
probabilities. That means I must decide what most likely happened based on the information 
and evidence before me. 
Halifax could not tell us precisely when PPI was sold to Miss B. It said it had treated the sale 
as being at the same time as the mortgage started in September 1997. Miss B told us she 
recalls taking her mortgage out in a face to face meeting with a Halifax representative. She 
does not recall PPI being sold at that time. As I said above, Miss Bs complaint is that the 
PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. 
I accept that what Miss B told us is what she honestly remembers about what happened. But 
I also have to be mindful that its difficult to remember precisely what happened around 25 
years ago. I think its most likely that policy documents would have been sent to her shortly 
after the policy sale. And I can see that the repayments also appeared on Miss Bs mortgage 
statements. On that basis, if Miss B was unaware that PPI had been sold at the point of sale, 
I think she would have queried what those insurance documents and PPI premiums were 
for. The evidence doesnt suggest she did. On balance, I think its most likely Miss B did 
know about the PPI policy at the point of sale. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means Halifax had to take extra steps to check the 
PPI was suitable for Miss Bs needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what Miss B told us 
about her personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Miss Bs mortgage repayments 
would have been covered if shed been off sick from work or if shed lost her job. Each claim 
could have lasted for up to 12 months. 
I can see Miss B would have been entitled to some sick pay from her employer. But it looks 
as though the PPI would have lasted for longer than that cover. And with a PPI policy, Miss 
B could have used her sick pay on her other essential expenditure at what could have been 
a very stressful time for her if she was off work. 
Miss B told us she had access to a significant amount of savings that were held by family 
members on her behalf. She said that she could have relied on those funds that were worth 
more than her entire mortgage if she was in financial trouble. But there is some 
inconsistency as to the amount of the savings. I can see in her PPI questionnaire to Halifax, 
Miss B said she had savings of considerably less than the value of her mortgage. In any 
event, regardless of the value of those savings, it is not clear to me whether those funds 
were readily accessible to Miss B. 
I say this because looking at the information provided from Halifax, it looks as though Miss B 
did get into some financial difficulty in or around 1999. From the information Ive seen, it 
looks as though she may have missed some repayments and made an arrangement with 
Halifax to cover those arrears. I can see she told Halifax at that time that she did not have 
access to any savings. Halifax also recorded that Miss B was in arrears with a loan and that 
she was thinking of increasing her mortgage to consolidate her loans. If the funds were 
available to Miss B when she had financial difficulties, it is not clear why she would seek to 
secure debt on her property to consolidate other borrowing. 
On balance, it seems most likely that if Miss Bs savings were as she recalled, she wanted to 
keep those savings intact. Otherwise, I think shed have called on them when she did run 
into some financial problems.  
Ive next checked whether Miss B would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions. I understand Miss B was in good health at the time PPI was added to her 
mortgage. So I dont think shed have been affected by any of the policys limitations around 
medical conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual about her wider employment 
circumstances that would have made it more difficult for her to make a claim if she needed 
to. 
I must stress that this borrowing was secured on Miss Bs home. And if she fell behind with 
her repayments, her property could have been at risk. In light of what Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied the policy was suitable for her needs. 
That said, Halifax still had to give Miss B enough information about the PPI cover so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept it is possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss B everything it should have done about the 
PPI policy. But Ive set out above how the policy could have been helpful to Miss B if she 
was out of work. And so I cant reasonably say more or better information about the PPI 
would have caused Miss B to refuse cover. 
Overall, I cant say the PPI policy was mis-sold. I dont need to tell Halifax to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman