DRN-3818722
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled her request 
for help to recover money following a payment she made to stay at a holiday home. 
What happened
In early October 2021 Miss A booked a holiday home for a couple of days for her family and 
two others. She used a booking agent, who Ill refer to as V, to arrange the booking and paid 
the full amount of £1,789.20 using her Barclaycard. The trip was scheduled for the end of 
October 2021.
Just under a week before the trip was due to happen, a member of Miss As family caught 
Covid-19. At this time, she messaged the holiday home owner, who Ill refer to as D, to 
enquire about either cancelling the trip  Miss A realised this was outside of the terms and 
conditions for a refund  or changing the dates. D responded to say that he would try and 
re-let the holiday home for the dates in question, and if he could, he would arrange a refund 
for Miss A. He didnt answer her question about the possibility of changing the dates of the 
trip.
Over the next couple of days Miss A messaged D several times to ask if he had managed to 
re-let the holiday home or if it was possible for her to amend the dates of the booking. D 
didnt respond to those messages, so the day before the trip was scheduled Miss A 
messaged him again to say that, as D hadnt responded to her messages about re-letting the 
holiday home or changing the dates, the other members of the travelling party would be 
making use of the booking as intended. At this point, D replied to say that he hadnt been 
able to re-let the holiday home, but Miss A had asked to cancel the booking and the holiday 
home was no longer available. He told Miss A to let the other guests know not to travel. 
Miss A continued to speak to D as she wasnt happy about this. D said that the cancellation 
policy was clear from the outset and no refund would be given. Miss A also spoke to V about 
this, as they had been used to make the initial booking, but they werent able to help. 
Unable to resolve the situation with D or V, Miss A got in touch with Barclaycard. She 
completed a disputed transaction form and asked them for their help in getting her money 
back. Barclaycard said they were unable to help. They said they couldnt consider a claim 
under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as there wasnt a debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) relationship in place to allow a claim to be made. They didnt raise a 
chargeback claim for Miss A, as Barclaycard didnt think it had any prospect of success. 
Miss A brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. She said she didnt 
think the messages Miss A had sent to D confirmed that she wanted to cancel the booking. 
She said Miss A was enquiring about the options available to her, including cancellation or 
changing the dates of the trip, but D hadnt responded to those requests. As D hadnt 
responded and Miss A hadnt confirmed she wanted to cancel the booking, our investigator 
said she thought Barclaycard had enough information to raise a chargeback claim for Miss A 
as she hadnt received the service shed paid for. She asked Barclaycard to refund Miss A 
the full amount, backdated to 24 November 2021. She also asked them to reconstruct 
Miss As credit card account to reflect this, and refund Miss A if she would have been in 
credit at any point. She said 8% simple interest should be paid on those amounts from the 
date she wouldve been in credit to the date of settlement. 
Barclaycard didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said they didnt think success for a 
chargeback could be guaranteed as Miss A had mentioned cancellation on her dispute form 
and there was insufficient evidence to be certain of what happened. 
As Barclaycard didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visa. In certain circumstances 
the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Miss A made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the DCS relationship and that the 
purchase meets a certain cash price. 
In Miss As case Barclaycard chose not to raise a chargeback when her disputed transaction 
form was received. They have told our investigator that they feel it had very little chance of 
success as Miss A had mentioned her intent to cancel the booking on the form. But Im not 
persuaded that is the case here. And I do think Miss A had a chance of success had a 
chargeback been raised. Ill explain why.
Miss A paid V for her booking, and, for the purpose of chargeback, they are the merchant of 
record in this situation. So, theyre responsible for chargebacks where the service paid for 
has not been received. And I think Barclaycard should have raised the chargeback since the 
agreed service wasnt provided. I say this because, having looked at the communication 
between Miss A and D from the time in question, Im satisfied that Miss A didnt confirm she wanted to cancel the booking. From the outset of her communication with D, Miss A 
explained that one member of her family had caught Covid-19 and she wanted to explore the 
options she had available to her and the other travellers. I accept that she did ask about 
cancellation of the stay, but that was done alongside other potential options, such as 
amending the booking to a later date. At no time have I seen anything to confirm Miss A 
cancelled the booking, either with D or via Vs website. Indeed, the booking still showed as 
confirmed on Miss As account with V until the date it was due to go ahead. 
D did explain that, should Miss A cancel the booking she wouldnt be entitled to a refund 
under the terms and conditions of the booking. I dont think Miss A disputes that, or that a 
refund wouldnt have been applicable had she cancelled the booking at that time. Thats why 
she was exploring other options available to try and make use of the booking. But Im 
satisfied that it was only Ds interpretation of events that led to the holiday home not being 
available on the date it was booked for. D originally explained that he would try and re-let the 
holiday home for the dates in question and, if he could, he would then provide Miss A with a 
refund  its possible that had he been able to do that, then Miss A would have proceeded to 
cancel her booking. However, D didnt get back in touch with Miss A to discuss a way 
forward. It was only when Miss A confirmed to D that the other travelling members of the 
party would be making use of the booking, due to his lack of response, that he replied to say 
he had cancelled the booking as she had requested, so the other members of the party 
wouldnt have access to the holiday home. 
Having considered all the information in this case, Im more persuaded than not that Miss A 
had a prospect of success had a chargeback been raised by Barclaycard. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Miss A requested to cancel the holiday home, and I dont think V would 
have been able to provide anything had the chargeback been raised with them. Because of 
that, I think Barclaycard have incorrectly denied Miss A the chance to receive a refund 
through the chargeback scheme. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard should have pursued the chargeback claim with the information 
they had, I would normally now ask them to look at raising the chargeback, provided it was 
still within the time limits specified by the rules. But in this case, its now outside of those 
time limits. So, I think its fair to ask Barclaycard to refund the total amount of £1,789.20 to 
Miss A. They should make this refund to her credit card at the time they declined her claim 
by reworking her account and paying 8% simple interest on any periods of positive balance 
that come about as a result of the rework of the account. Barclaycard should also explain 
their workings to Miss A when they confirm settlement to her in writing. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard should have raised a chargeback when Miss A got in touch with 
them, and Im persuaded she had a good chance of success, I havent commented on the 
s75 aspect within this decision. My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must:
Refund Miss A the total amount of £1,789.20.
Pay Miss A 8% simple interest on any periods of positive balance that come about as 
a result of the reworking of her account, as outlined above.*
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss A how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman