DRN-3284030
The complaint
Miss W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly applied for a County 
Court Judgment to be applied against her for a debt that she accrued on a student (and later 
a Graduate) account.
To resolve this complaint, Miss W has asked that the County Court Judgment (CCJ) record 
on her credit file is removed.
What happened
In its final response, HSBC agreed to pay Miss W £150 compensation, but it said it was not 
able to remove the CCJ or Default entries from Miss Ws credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that HSBC should 
remove the CCJ or Default either.
Miss W disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Since then, Miss W has told us that the CCJ entry on her credit file has been removed, but 
she still wants our service to consider whether the default was fairly applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything that Miss W and HSBC have provided, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint. I will explain why.
Miss W says that her account exceeded her arranged overdraft, and subsequently ended up 
being defaulted, because HSBC changed her account from a Student account to a Graduate 
account without telling her, during the summer of 2018. 
HSBCs records suggest that Miss Ws account was not changed to a Graduate account 
during the summer of 2018. HSBCs records indicate that it changed on 8 November 2018. 
Nevertheless, the reason why Miss Ws account experienced difficulties was not because 
the account type had changed. Instead, it was because the balance on her account 
exceeded her £1,500 overdraft limit and then Miss W stopped paying money into the 
account from early July 2018 onwards. As such, the issues arose because of Miss Ws 
account usage, rather than because HSBC had done something wrong.
HSBC has provided evidence to show that it repeatedly wrote to Miss W in June, July, 
August and September 2018. These letters explained that Miss Ws account had exceeded 
her overdraft limit (so was in an unarranged overdraft) and that some payments were being 
returned unpaid. The letters asked Miss W to make a repayment on the account to get it 
back into an arranged overdraft. And as Miss W had not responded to the letters or had 
credited any money into the account, the letters requested that Miss W get in contact to 
repay the amounts owed.
Miss W says that she didnt receive these letters. Miss W says that HSBC had not updated 
her postal address which resulted in the letters being sent to the wrong address. But even if 
that were the case, I think that Miss W was aware that her account had exceeded its limit 
and Miss W had stopped paying money into the account for a number of months. I say this 
especially as the account was significantly overdrawn the last time Miss W credited money 
into the account and I cant see that Miss W had cancelled the regular payments that were 
coming out of the account. I can also see that Miss W had a number of payments that were 
returned unpaid too, and I think its likely that she was aware of this, given that one of them 
was for over £500.
HSBC then sent a final demand letter to different addresses. Its not clear why HSBC did 
this, although it seems that Miss W did receive at least one of these letters. Miss W says she 
called HSBC, but says she was not allowed to make a repayment plan. The account was 
eventually closed, put into default and the debt was passed to HSBCs recoveries on 10 
December 2018.
Miss W has said that she wants the default removed from her credit file. But for me to say 
that HSBC should do that, Id need to see that it was incorrectly applied in the first place. 
Miss W says that if she had received the letters, her account would not have been defaulted. 
But Im not persuaded by Miss Ws point. I say this because firstly, the account only entered 
into a default because Miss W had stopped paying money into the account and had allowed 
the account to enter into, and remain in, an unarranged overdraft for a prolonged period of 
time. Secondly, based on what Miss W has told us about her circumstances at the time and 
the fact that Miss W was not able to reduce the overdrawn balance on her account over a 
number of months makes me think it was likely her account wouldve ended up in default 
anyway, even if shed received the earlier letters. 
As such, based on what I have seen, I cant reasonably say that the default was incorrectly 
applied to Miss Ws account, even if it was the case that Miss W had not received the earlier 
letters that explained that her account was operating in an unarranged overdraft.
Finally, Miss W has also asked that a CCJ, that she says was registered against her for the 
debt that had accrued on the account in question also be removed. However, based on the 
evidence I have been provided with, Ive not seen any evidence to show that HSBC applied 
for a CCJ against Miss W about the debt. And Miss W has now confirmed that a CCJ entry is 
no longer present on her credit file, so it seems this matter has been resolved.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I therefore dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything else, beyond what it had already 
agreed to do in its final response letter, to put matters right.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman