DRN-1512184
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how UKI Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with her claim on her building 
and contents policy following water damage to her home. She says there were delays, 
contractors damaged her property, and an inadequate settlement was forced upon her.
What happened
Mrs B home and contents were damaged following a leak in the bathroom. She called UKI 
on 16 August 2017, reporting damage to the bathroom, hallway and kitchen and to clothing 
in the hallway at the time. UKI sent a contractor who found nothing leaking but suspected the 
toilet cistern. She called UKI the next day, complaining of a stench from the bathroom floor, 
saying the floorboards might need to come up.
UKI sent a drying contractor on the 19 August 2017. Its report led to various queries about 
the claim. It said Mrs B wanted more repair work done than was necessary and was trying to 
dictate the claim. She said flooring and carpets needed to be replaced. It said these were 
either undamaged or only required re-finishing. Mrs B said shed already disposed of 
damaged items, including a range cooker. The contractor said the kitchen ceiling and upper 
walls were stained but there was no damage to kitchen cabinets. It suggested UKI appoint a 
loss adjuster to act for it. 
A loss adjuster attended on 25 August 2017. There is disagreement over what happened. 
Mrs B says emergency expenditure and specific alternative accommodation (AA) was 
agreed. UKI says this wasnt authorised at this point. Mrs B called UKI numerous times in 
the following days chasing a payment and pushing for AA to be booked, but UKI had various 
queries. Mrs B felt the claim wasnt being dealt with properly and appointed a loss assessor 
(LA) to act for her on 30 August 2017. 
Mrs B says she disposed of damaged items and had a large amount of clothing dry cleaned 
soon after the incident. UKI says this prevented it from appraising items in order to validate 
the claim. Mrs B says the loss adjuster had seen the damage when it attended. UKI was 
concerned about inconsistencies in the claim, raising queries and asking for evidence to 
support the contents claim. Mrs B wasnt able to provide this and decided to remove some 
items from her claim. Discussions between the LA and UKI over the contents and their value 
continued into early February 2018. 
Several weeks into the claim it wasnt clear whether the leak had been repaired. Mrs B 
asked if her plumber could lift the bathroom floor to investigate. UKI wanted confirmation 
from the plumber, who then confirmed the leak was from the cistern. The drying contractor 
reported on the 20 September 2017 that it still wasnt clear if the cistern had been repaired 
and that Mrs B was still refusing to pay the £350 excess due on the policy. Drying was 
planned but then stopped by UKI as issues with the AA hadnt been resolved. The LA raised 
a complaint about the loss adjuster and the AA, which UKI didnt uphold.
Mrs B says a contractor damaged a wooden floor in September 2017, but didnt report this 
until January 2018. The contractor strongly refuted this, saying the floor was already marked. Mrs B says the same contractor also damaged the kitchen wall and a wooden post on her 
drive. She says this damage was seen by UKIs contractors.
Other contractors had been appointed to assess the property repairs. The claim was being 
cash settled and UKI emailed a settlement offer to the LA on 23 March 2018 and was 
accepted on 26 March 2018. The settlement offered was almost entirely in respect of the 
buildings claim with only £200 offered in respect of contents.
Mrs B complained to UKI in June 2019 raising many issues. UKI said many of these had 
been dealt with in the complaint made in 2017 so it wouldnt consider them. It looked into the 
other issues being; delays, the settlement offered, alleged damage and the threatening tone 
of the settlement offer. 
UKI rejected the complaint. It said there were no delays and other than the floor no damage 
was mentioned at the time. It asked Mrs B to provide evidence of the damage.  It said the 
settlement was fair and the wording used was its standard format which it didnt consider 
threatening. But it apologised if any distress had been caused. Mrs B provided a photograph 
of the replaced wooden post and an invoice from a builder. She said that UKIs contractors 
knew about damage to the wall. UKI said these didnt evidence any damage and it couldnt 
consider it further. Mrs B referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it. Mrs B included all issue she had initially complained about 
including from 2017 and raised some additional points not mentioned to UKI. Our 
investigator said not everything could be considered. She agreed with Mrs B and UKI that 
the complaint was about the following points, but did not uphold it:
There were delays in settling the claim. 
Our investigator said the timeline of the claim didnt show that it was at a standstill at any 
point. She said it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to want to validate the claim and to seek 
evidence and expert reports as necessary to do this.
The settlement offered was inadequate and the threatening tone meant Mrs B felt 
forced to accept it.
Our investigator said UKI had acted reasonably in wanting to validate items Mrs B wanted to 
claim for. Mrs B hadnt provided evidence to UKI and only provided our service with receipts 
for dry cleaning and laundry and some photographs of her wearing hats. Our investigator 
said these didnt evidence that the items were damaged by the water leak. As UKI hadnt 
been given the opportunity to inspect them or other items to validate the claim it wasnt 
reasonable to expect UKI to accept them in the claim 
Mrs B also provided a receipt for new clothes she had bought, but our investigator said there 
was no evidence that UKI had agreed this expenditure.
Our investigator didnt consider UKI settlement offer to be a threat. She noted it had been 
sent to the LA, was obviously following up on previous discussions and the LA had accepted 
on behalf of Mrs B without raising any issues with the settlement figure or the other content 
of the email at the time.
 
 
UKIs contractors caused damage to the propertyOur investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show that it was likely that the 
contractors had caused damage. As such UKI couldnt be asked to cover these costs.   
Mrs B responded at length, but our investigator felt there was no new evidence and so didnt 
change her view. As Mrs B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs B but I dont think UKI has treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably in handling her claim. She has raised many points but I havent seen any 
evidence to support her interpretations and arguments. 
What was agreed and the level of settlement
There is a note of the first meeting with the loss adjuster but I dont agree that it means what 
Mrs B says it does. She says matters were agreed in this meeting and the note proves it. 
UKI says they werent and I havent seen any evidence to suggest they were. Mrs B has 
argued that this is irrelevant as the loss adjuster had authority to agree the matters in any 
case.
Some of what is disputed is outside the scope of this decision. But when viewed as whole, 
what Mrs B says was agreed would have substantially increased the cost of the claim for 
UKI. Given that this was before the claim had been validated and there was no clear 
requirement for the expenditure to be incurred I dont think the loss adjuster would have 
agreed to it at this point. The note itself says:
We shall ask insurers to issue emergency payment for assistance
I dont agree that this can be taken as saying any expenditure or indeed any action Mrs B 
wanted to take was approved, which is what she effectively argues. If anything the note 
suggests that the loss adjuster didnt have the authority to authorise payment, only to 
request one. And Mrs B went further than emergency expenditure, she disposed of items 
and had others professionally cleaned. And some items were disposed of before this 
meeting.
The drying contractors initial report to UKI says damage was confined to the bathroom floor 
and kitchen ceiling and walls. As such the level of clothing expenditure and professional 
cleaning of clothing, where the combined receipts provided exceed £1,250, does appear 
excessive. 
It doesnt seem plausible that Mrs B and her family had no usable clothing after the incident. 
Or that so many clothing items came into contact with dirty water requiring professional 
cleaning given the limited extent of the water damage reported. Similarly £3,000 was 
claimed for carpets not recorded as damaged by the drying contractor. I dont agree that the 
loss adjusters note authorised these actions.   
I think there is too much uncertainty about what limited evidence has been provided. The 
copy of the clothing purchase receipt is less than originally claimed and omits the date. Five 
photographs have been provided which appear to show three different hats, although nine 
hats valued at £1,650 were originally claimed for. The photographs showing two of the hats were taken around nineteen years before the incident. 
Whilst removed from the claim, Mrs B told UKI shed disposed of a range cooker valued at 
£1,700 and other kitchen appliances. She did this between reporting the incident at 
lunchtime on the 16 August and the drying contractor attending on the 19 August. It is hard 
to see a valid reason why such items, even if they were damaged beyond repair in the 
incident, were disposed of so quickly.  
The terms of Mrs Bs policy contained very common and clearly set out provisions requiring 
her to evidence any claim by retaining items for examination by UKI. Or if this isnt possible 
for any reason, to provide other evidence of ownership and damage as appropriate. Mrs B 
wasnt able to do this. So I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably or unfairly in only settling 
the claim on the basis of what it could validate. And there isnt any suggestion in the 
complaint that the settlement offered in respect of repairs to the property was inadequate. 
The settlement offer was made to Mrs Bs LA, not directly to her. It was written as such using 
terminology which I wouldnt expect to be used directly with consumers. No objections were 
made and the only queries raised were about VAT and to request a copy of an expert survey 
report. 
Without evidence to the contrary I am satisfied that the settlement offered and accepted at 
the time without query was fair and reasonable.  
Delays
The LA has argued that this was a straightforward escape of water claim, needlessly 
delayed by UKIs unreasonable and unwarranted enquiries as to its validity. But UKIs 
records show it was still receiving information about Mrs Bs contents from the LA in early 
February 2018. On the evidence I have seen, I dont think UKIs actions were either 
unreasonable or unwarranted. The claim looks to have been actively progressed by UKI and 
I dont think there were unreasonable delays in settling it.
Damage to Property
Again there isnt any evidence of this. Under the circumstances of this claim and considering 
that Mrs B had retained a LA two weeks into it I think it is usual that any damage wasnt 
photographed and formally reported to UKI at the time.  
The only damage reported was to the wooden floor and even this was many weeks after the 
contractor had attended. This was investigated and firmly rejected by UKI at the time. And I 
note that the settlement offered by UKI on 23 March 2018 specifically includes provision for 
the replacement of this wooden floor. So, I dont think this should have been included in the 
complaint.  
Im not persuaded by the explanation provided as to how the wooden post was damaged. 
The receipt and photograph dont evidence damage. So, I dont think it is reasonable to 
attribute this to UKIs contractors.
Threat in the settlement, forcing acceptance 
Mrs B feels strongly that the email was a threat and she says she was forced to accept the 
offer because of it. But as I dont think UKI acted unfairly in the settlement offered some of 
this is academic. As noted the settlement offer was emailed to the LA. It is a professional to 
professional exchange following on from previous discussions and I think it reads as such. Mrs B says the settlement offered and tone of the email werent challenged at the time 
because it was obvious she was unhappy with the settlement. And was concerned about 
further delays and jeopardizing a separate claim being made with UKI at the same time she 
felt forced to accept it.
But Mrs B was professionally represented. The monetary offer could have been accepted 
but UKIs explanation for it challenged, it wasnt. The LA would be aware that a complaint 
about all aspects, including any concerns with the other claim, could have been raised with 
UKI. If necessary, it could have been referred to our service for impartial resolution, as it has 
been now.
In terms of the threatening tone Mrs B has focused on the wording of one sentence saying 
this is a threat to accept the offer or face the consequences.  But within the context of the 
email which summarises what was offered and why, I think it is an attempt to draw a 
disputed claim to a conclusion on that professional to professional basis. This is the 
sentence in question:
It must be noted however we remain deeply concerned over several aspects of the 
claim and if the settlement is not accepted we reserve the right to withdraw our offer 
and carry out further investigations as we feel necessary.
I accept the content of the email would have been difficult reading for Mrs B but I dont think 
it was anything more than a firmly worded first and final offer to Mrs Bs professional adviser. 
Whose reply was:
Hello .
I trust you are well.
I refer to your email below and am writing now to confirm that the Policyholder accepts 
your settlement figure of  £           
I would be grateful if you could please confirm that you have our mandate containing 
our client account details.
I look forward to hearing from you.
Best Regards
In summary, I am satisfied that the validation UKI sought was reasonable, the claim wasnt 
delayed and the settlement offered was fair. There no evidence that UKI contractors 
damaged Mrs Bs property or agreed to the expenditure she chose to incur. As I dont think 
UKI has treated Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably I wont be asking it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman