DRN-1300004
 
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a loan.
What happened
In 1996, Mr S applied for a loan with Nationwide. At the same time, it sold him PPI to protect 
his repayments if he couldnt work because of disability or unemployment. It also included 
life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mr S comments about the sale, including that he wasnt told 
anything about PPI. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold more than 20 years ago  in my 
view making it less likely hed be able to accurately recall any discussions that might have 
taken place at the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale. Nationwides 
provided a sample credit agreement which, it says, is at least similar to what Mr S would 
have seen. None of this is surprising considering how much times passed both since then 
and since the loan was repaid and the PPI cancelled.
In the absence of any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to consider 
that Mr S wasnt aware of the PPI at the time or that he didnt choose to take it out. I 
understand if he doesnt remember that now after all this time.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally, I dont consider it likely that Nationwide 
recommended the PPI to Mr S. That still meant Nationwide had to give him clear, fair and 
not misleading information about the PPI so that he could make a properly informed choice 
about it.
There might have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr S the information it should 
have done. But, taking into account his circumstances, I dont think better information would 
have put him off taking out the PPI. I say that because, for example:It seems Mr S would have been eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt look as though 
hed have been affected by its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mr S was entitled to some sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer but its 
not clear how much hed have got or for how long. On the other hand, we know the 
PPI benefits would have been paid on top of that pay and for up to 24 months per 
disability claim. It also covered him for up to 12 months per unemployment claim. So 
thinking about that, and bearing in mind the PPI protected a loan secured against his 
home, I think the extra security the PPI gave him could have been useful.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S would have found the PPI premium  of 
around £13 a month  unaffordable. And, if Mr S had decided he didnt want the PPI 
anymore, he could have cancelled it at any time and at no extra cost.
 
Overall, I dont believe Mr S has lost out because of how Nationwide sold him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman