DRN-3620985
The complaint
Ms S complains that Euroins AD has turned down a cancellation claim she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S was due to travel abroad in December 2021. In October 2021, she took out a single 
trip travel insurance policy through a broker to provide cover for the trip.
However, shortly before Ms S was due to travel, the government of her destination changed 
its entry requirements relating to Covid-19. This change in entry restrictions meant Ms S 
wasnt able to travel as shed planned and so she had to cancel her trip. She made a claim 
on her travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the cancellation of her trip.
Euroins turned down Ms S claim. It said the claim circumstances werent covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Ms S was unhappy with Euroins decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms S complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the claim was 
covered by the policy terms. And he concluded that cancellation due to change in 
government restrictions was specifically excluded from cover. So he felt itd been fair for 
Euroins to turn down this claim.
Ms S disagreed. She thought the policy advertising had been misleading.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this 
decision will only consider whether it was fair for Euroins to turn down Ms S claim. I 
appreciate Ms S has concerns about the way the policy was sold to her. However, the policy 
was sold by a broker  which is a separate legal entity to Euroins. Euroins wasnt 
responsible for the policy sale and so any complaint about the information Ms S was given at 
the point of sale would need to be made to her broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, I think it was fair for Euroins to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms S policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Euroins treated 
her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Ms S 
contract with Euroins. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the list of specific, 
defined events Euroins covers if a policyholder needs to cancel their trip:
1. the death, bodily injury or illness of you, a close relative, your travel companion or 
any person you have arranged to stay with during your trip; or
2. you, your travel companion or any person you have arranged to stay with during your 
trip receiving a diagnosis of coronavirus within 14 days of the start of the trip or in the 
case of being admitted to hospital due to coronavirus within 28 days of the start of 
the trip;
3. you being contacted by the NHS Test and Trace system and being told that you must 
self-isolate, within 14 days prior to your departure date, including on the date your trip 
is due to commence, or a member of your household receiving a positive coronavirus 
test result within 14 days prior to your departure date, which means that you are 
required to be self- isolating on the date your trip is due to commence;
4. your booked accommodation being required to close after you have checked in at 
your booked accommodation because of you, a guest or employee being diagnosed 
with coronavirus;
5. you or your travel companion being denied boarding following either a coronavirus 
diagnosis or receiving a temperature test or other medical test reading which falls 
outside of the transport providers terms of travel;
6. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
7. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
8. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire
9. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
10. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
I think Euroins has clearly set out the cancellation cover it provides. In this case, Ms S trip 
had to be cancelled because the government of the country she was travelling to changed its 
entry requirements. This isnt something which is covered by the cancellation cover Ive set 
out above. And so I dont think Euroins acted unfairly when it concluded Ms S claim wasnt 
covered.
Ms S considers that her claim should be met under heading 5  a policyholder or their 
travelling companion being denied boarding following either a Covid-19 diagnosis; receiving 
a temperature test or other medical test result which is outside the transport providers travel 
terms. I dont agree. Ms S wasnt denied boarding by her airline because of a positive Covid-
19 test or other result which might indicate illness. Her trip was cancelled prior to her 
planned departure due to a change in government entry requirements. I dont think I could 
fairly conclude that the circumstances of her claim fall within the scope of this particular 
insured event.
Euroins has also set out a list of things it specifically excludes from cover under the 
cancellation section of the policy. One of these is claims arising from the prohibitive 
regulations of any government. In my view, given the reason for cancellation of Ms S trip 
was a change in the border requirements of Ms S destination country, it was fair for Euroins 
to conclude that her claim was specifically excluded by the contract terms.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Ms S position, as I appreciate shes been left out of pocket, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Euroins to pay her 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman