DRN-2022356
The complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited (Trading as Green Flag Motoring Assistance) 
failed to identify the problem with her vehicle when it attended a call out.
What happened
Miss M had breakdown cover with Green Flag. In November 2019 she experienced a 
problem with her vehicle  she said it felt like the wheels were pulling in the opposite 
direction when she turned. She thought she might have a flat tyre and booked a call out with 
Green Flag to her home for the following day.
A Green Flag technician attended and inspected the vehicle. He said there was a puncture 
in one of the tyres. The technician fitted the spare tyre and told Miss M she would need to 
visit a garage to get the tyre replaced .
Shortly after this Miss M started to drive the car to the garage recommended by the 
technician. On the way, the car stopped moving. She called Green Flag again to recover her 
vehicle. When the technician attended, he said the suspension arm had corroded and 
broken. He also commented that the previous technician should have identified this when he 
inspected the vehicle. 
Miss M made a complaint to Green Flag. She said the first technician should have identified 
the problem. Further she said when the garage had fixed the problem, they said there hadnt 
been a puncture in the tyre the technician removed and had put it back on.
Green Flag didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said that when she had called out the first 
technician, she had said that the problem was with the tyres. So this is what the technician 
had checked. And he wouldnt be expected to inspect the whole vehicle to make sure there 
werent other problems. It said he had provided a temporary repair to get her back on the 
road, which is what the policy covers.
Miss M didnt think this was fair. She said she had to pay additional costs to get the vehicle 
fixed due to the fact the problem wasnt initially identified. She brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
She said that based on the evidence from the garage it seemed the first technician should 
have identified the problem. And the fact he didnt had caused Miss M inconvenience as she 
had to make a second call out. She recommended Green Flag pay her £50 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience.
Green Flag didnt accept this. It said that its technician provided the service covered under 
the terms and conditions so didnt accept that any compensation was necessary. It asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Green Flag said its technician was called out to examine a problem with the tyres on 
Miss Ms vehicle. It said it provided a temporary fix by replacing the tyre, which fulfilled the 
purpose of the policy  to get Miss M going again. I have considered this and I dont agree it 
did. Ill explain why.
When Miss M arranged the first call out, she was unsure about the cause of the problem. 
She had inspected the car and couldnt find evidence of a flat tyre. However she said the 
problem felt similar to when she had experienced one before, so she had assumed it was a 
problem with the tyres. 
Green Flag has said that as its technician was called out about a problem with the tyres, this 
is what he addressed. But I dont think its fair to expect policyholders to know what has 
caused a problem and for the technician to only inspect the area they suggest. It is the job of 
the technician to identify the problem or get the vehicle to a garage for them to do so. 
Further, although Green Flag provided a fix to the vehicle, Miss Ms car subsequently broke 
down just a few hundred yards from her property after driving it for the first time. So I dont 
think its fair to say Green Flag did get Miss M back on the road, as the policy requires. 
Miss M subsequently found out from the garage that the problem was with the suspension 
arm. And that the tyre that had been removed didnt have a puncture so could be put back 
on. Although I appreciate Green Flag has said its technician did find a problem with the tyre, 
the engineer has confirmed it was later put back on the vehicle. So I am satisfied that this 
wasnt a necessary fix and didnt solve the problem Miss M called Green Flag out for. 
Therefore I dont agree that Green Flag fulfilled the terms of the policy. 
In order to decide how it should put things right, I have considered the impact this has had 
on Miss M. She called out Green Flag in order to solve the problem with her car. But the 
vehicle subsequently broke down as the problem wasnt resolved. This would have been 
distressing, particularly as she had her four year old in the car at the time it broke down. She 
also had to arrange a second call out so the vehicle could be taken to the garage. This 
would have taken additional time and would have been inconvenient. So I agree that in not 
identifying the correct problem with the car, Green Flag has caused Miss M distress and 
inconvenience.
Based on this I agree with our investigators recommendation for Green Flag to pay £50 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Miss M has said that the cost of the repairs was greater than it would have been if the 
problem had been fixed before she drove the car. However Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest this is the case. Nor are Green Flag required to pay towards any long term repairs 
to the vehicle. So I dont think it would be fair for it to pay towards the repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss M £50 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. This should 
be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Miss M has accepted my final decision. If U K 
Insurance Limited pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman