The complaint
Mr W complains that a used car he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement from Moneybarn No1 Limited (Moneybarn) wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
contrary to the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr W entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car 
with Moneybarn. The car was then nearly six years old with a recorded mileage of 48,515 
miles. The cash price of the car was £14,999. Mr W paid a deposit of £4,000, and agreed to 
pay the balance, plus finance charges, by instalments of £360.59 each month over five 
years.
Shortly after he acquired the car, Mr W noticed a number of faults. He complained about 
these to the supplying dealer (SD), which arranged for the car to be inspected by a main 
dealer for this make of car. The car was inspected in May 2019 when the recorded mileage 
of the car was 56,237 miles. The main dealer issued a report which identified the following 
problems:
two worn tyres
worn windscreen wipers
worn brake pads and discs
wheels out of alignment
unsatisfactory dual battery fuse box and link lead
steering needing adjusting
suspect roof antenna/pod
water leak into boot requiring vents and boot to be stripped for investigation.
SD is situated in the North of England, while Mr W lives in the West of Scotland. SD agreed 
it would take the car in to look at the issues and would deliver a courtesy car to Mr Ws 
house for him to use in the meantime. Mr W says he was promised a car that was similar to 
or better than his own.
Mr W says the courtesy car that arrived was much inferior to his own and was in a poor 
state, with a dirty interior and covered in muddy paw prints and dog hair. So he refused to 
accept it and hand over his car. SD was unhappy at having driven the courtesy car a long 
way on a fruitless journey. So the relationship between Mr W and SD broke down.
Mr W complained to Moneybarn. In June 2019, Moneybarn responded to say that some of 
the items Mr W complained about, such as tyres, brake pads and discs, were wear and tear 
items, and at the date of inspection the car had covered some 7,500 miles since delivery. In 
DRN-1992957addition, the car had passed an MOT just four days before delivery, with no advisories. So 
Moneybarn didnt accept these items were faulty at delivery.
Moneybarn said SD was willing to review the car in its workshop with a view to resolving the 
non wear and tear items in the report. However the car would have to be delivered to it, and 
it wouldnt provide a courtesy car while this was done. However, Moneybarn said it was 
willing to provide a contribution of £150 towards the cost of a hire car.
Mr W was unhappy with this proposal and complained to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She accepted that 
some of the items in the report  such as tyres, brake pads, and discs - were wear and tear 
items for which at the date of the report Moneybarn couldnt be said to be responsible. But 
she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at delivery due to the other faults.
In the circumstances which had occurred, she didnt think Moneybarn had been given the 
opportunity to repair these faults. So Mr W wasnt entitled at this stage to reject the car under 
the CRA.
In November 2019 she recommended that Moneybarn:
allow Mr W to get the faults repaired at a local approved garage and cover the repair 
costs;
provide a courtesy car whilst the repairs were completed; and
pay Mr W compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
him.
 
Mr W said he was willing for the repairs to be carried out by SD provided this was done 
without inconvenience to him, that is by SD collecting his car from him and returning it, and 
leaving him with a courtesy car in the meantime.
Moneybarn was concerned that since SD offered to repair the car in June 2019 the car had 
continued to be driven and might have suffered further deterioration in the meantime. The 
investigator acknowledged that the responsibility of Moneybarn under this complaint was 
limited to repairing the faults identified in the May 2019 report.
Moneybarn said it wanted to know the current mileage of the car, and to discuss the situation 
with SD. Mr W confirmed that as at the beginning of March 2020 the car mileage reading 
was 67,072.
Moneybarn said it didnt feel it appropriate for SD to be held to an offer it had made some 
nine months previously. So it asked that this complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. It asked, in particular, that the ombudsman consider the responsibilities of the parties 
after this lapse of time.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional view to Mr W and to Moneybarn on 4 June 2020. In it I said that I 
agreed with the investigator that:the report of the main dealer who inspected the car in May 2019 confirmed that the 
car as supplied by Moneybarn to Mr W in January 2019 was faulty in a number of 
respects, and so was of unsatisfactory quality under the CRA;
although Moneybarn had sought to involve SD in the process of rectifying the faults, 
under the CRA it was Moneybarns primary responsibility, as the supplier under the 
conditional sale agreement, to rectify the faults; but
the wear to the tyres, brake pads and discs, and wipers, mentioned in the main 
dealers report after the car had covered some 6,000 miles were wear and tear 
matters. They werent mentioned in the MOT carried out at the time the car was 
supplied, and so I couldnt reasonably hold Moneybarn responsible for rectifying 
them.
 
Mr W had paid to have the wheel alignment carried out recently when he put new tyres on 
the car and replaced a wheel. In the circumstances I wasnt proposing that Moneybarn 
should reimburse that cost.
Moneybarn had expressed concern that in the time that had elapsed since SD proposed to 
take the car into its workshop and deal with the non wear and tear faults, the existing faults 
might have worsened, and further faults developed. So I had asked Mr W to describe the 
present state of the faults as listed in the main dealers report:
Dual battery fuse box u/s, also requires link lead
Mr W said this remained as described and seemed to be causing electrical faults.
Suspect roof pod/antenna u/s
He said this remained unsatisfactory. He thought there was water ingress from this under the 
roofline down to the battery modules inside the boot.
Instrument dials not illuminating
He said these still didnt always light up, and flickered sometimes. This might require the 
dashboard to be removed and new parts fitted.
Water leak into boot, require vents and boot strip to investigate
This still needed to be investigated and rectified.
DAB not working
Although not commented on in the main dealers report, this was mentioned in Mr Ws initial 
complaint to Moneybarn, and acknowledged in its letter to him of 23 May 2019. It started as 
an intermittent fault, and had since stopped working completely.
I said that these faults were all apparent at the time of Mr Ws original complaint. They 
needed to be investigated now, and repairs carried out appropriate to the present age and 
mileage of the car. By this I meant that it might be appropriate in some cases to fit 
reconditioned or compatible replacement parts rather than genuine manufacturer 
replacement parts.
I said Id seen nothing to suggest that the faults had significantly worsened because of any 
delay in dealing with them. Even if this were the case, I couldnt say Mr W was wholly 
responsible for this delay.Mr W said he was promised a like for like or better courtesy car by SD, which wasnt 
provided. I hadnt seen any evidence to support this. But Mr W had supplied photos showing 
the messy interior of the courtesy car which was supplied, and which he declined.
The relationship between Mr W and SD broke down after that, and I held both responsible 
for that. I also thought Moneybarn could have done more to bring matters to a satisfactory 
outcome earlier, rather than saying it was all up to SD.
I concluded, therefore, that Moneybarn was responsible under the CRA for repairing the 
above faults, and should:
1. arrange for the car to be taken, at its option and expense, either to SD or to a repairer 
local to Mr W and approved by him, for the above faults to be investigated and appropriate 
repairs carried out;
2. arrange for a reasonable courtesy car to be provided to Mr W at its expense while this 
was done. This car should be reasonably suitable for Mr Ws requirements, but neednt 
necessarily be of the same or similar make to Mr Ws car; and
3. pay Mr W £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the handling of his 
complaint had caused Mr W.
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision but said that, as an alternative, he would accept 
returning the car in exchange for Moneybarn ending the agreement and refunding all monies 
he had paid, including his £4,000 deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr W nor Moneybarn has provided any fresh information or evidence in response 
to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
I make no comment on the alternative resolution that Mr W has suggested. I dont think its 
appropriate for me to include this as part of my decision without Moneybarn having had an 
opportunity to comment on it.
However if, after my decision is issued, Mr W and Moneybarn wish to mutually agree 
an alternative arrangement of any kind in place of my decision, that is entirely a matter for 
them.
Putting things right
I think Moneybarn should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my final decision 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Moneybarn No1 Limited to:1. arrange for the car to be taken, at its option and expense, either to SD or to a
repairer local to Mr W and approved by him, for the above faults to be investigated
and appropriate repairs carried out;
2. arrange for a reasonable courtesy car to be provided to Mr W at its expense while
this is done. This car should be reasonably suitable for Mr Ws requirements, but
neednt necessarily be of the same or similar make to Mr Ws car; and
3. pay Mr W £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the handling of
his complaint has caused Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman