DRN-4038930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy QIC Europe Limited didnt accept their full claim following an 
escape of water.
Mr and Mrs B held buildings and contents insurance with QIC in joint names. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr B throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr B saw dripping and water staining on his kitchen ceiling. He traced the leak to a broken 
joint in the shower pipework behind the bathroom wall. Mr B fixed the leak and raised a claim 
with QIC for the cost of repairs.
QIC accepted the claim in part, but it declined cover for the wet and rotten joists underneath 
the bathroom flooring. QIC said the damage had happened over a longer period of time and 
the policy didnt provide cover for gradually occurring damage. Further, QIC said cover was 
available for the bathroom tiles damaged during trace and access, but the policy only 
provided cover for 50% of the undamaged tiles. QIC declined cover for the rendering 
because its surveyor said it was aged material.
Mr B complained to QIC. He said thered been no indication of a leak until the day he saw 
the water dripping, and he raised his claim the following day. Mr B thought QIC should cover 
the full repair costs and pay for all of the bathroom tiles. 
QIC said the level of rot in the joists wouldve taken a long time to reach that stage, so its 
likely that there wouldve been evidence of an escape of water on the kitchen ceiling much 
sooner. So, QIC it didnt think it should cover the costs of repairs. Further to this, QIC said 
the rendering came away due to age and gradual deterioration, therefore the policy didnt 
provide cover.
Our investigator accepted QICs explanation about the damage to the joists and he agreed 
that the policy only covered 50% of the undamaged tiles. However, our investigator thought 
QIC should pay the cost of repairs to the rendering, plus interest, and recommended £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC didnt respond, but Mr B disagreed. He repeated that the first evidence of an escape of 
water was the day before he raised the claim, so it was unreasonable to say he wouldve 
been aware of the gradual damage being caused by the leak. Mr B also said £100 wasn't 
enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and remained of the view 
that QIC should pay for all of the undamaged tiles.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Evidence of an escape of water
The issue here is that QIC thinks Mr B wouldve been aware of a leak much sooner, so it 
declined cover for the damage caused gradually in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr B said the leak only became evident the day before his claim, and he fixed it immediately.
Ive looked at the photos of the kitchen ceiling and Mr Bs bathroom which show the extent of 
damage. The water staining doesnt appear to be extensive. So, Ive thought about Mr Bs 
testimony that there is a middle layer between the bathroom floor and the kitchen ceiling. He 
refers to this as a suspended ceiling. Im persuaded that the suspended ceiling wouldve 
offered another layer of protection to the kitchen ceiling before the leak became evident. 
And, as Mr B had the ability to trace, access and fix the leak, I think its unlikely he wouldve 
ignored earlier signs of water damage. 
The photos show the bathroom to be in a good condition, and QICs surveyor didnt 
comment on any areas of the shower which mightve allowed water through, such as failed 
sealant. The leak was from the shower supply pipe behind the wall, so its unlikely Mr B 
wouldve been aware of the leak until he saw the drips and water marks on the kitchen 
ceiling.
Overall, Im persuaded that the rotten joists may have been caused by a gradual, ongoing 
leak, but I think its reasonable to say neither Mr B nor Mrs B wouldve been aware of it. In 
the circumstances, then, Im minded to say QIC should cover the cost of joist repairs.
Damage caused by trace and access
Mr B completed the trace and access work. Looking at the photos of the bathroom, I cant 
see anything to suggest Mr B removed more of the wall and floor tiles than was necessary to 
find and fix the leak. His report of the work he carried out seems reasonable and I note Mr B 
isnt trying to claim for his time to complete the trace and access. So, Ive thought about 
whether its fair for QIC to cover the full cost of repairing the damage caused in tracing the 
leak. 
The policy states:
We will also pay up to the buildings sum insured for reasonable and necessary costs to 
remove any part of the building to find the source of damage to your home caused by: i) 
water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus or pipes; 
As I think Mr B only carried out reasonable and necessary work to identify the leak, I see no 
reason why QIC shouldnt pay for the cost of repairs. I dont think QIC has disputed its 
liability for at least some of the repair costs.
In terms of the repairs necessary, the photos QIC provided show that one wall was affected 
when tracing the leak. Therefore, its reasonable to think QIC would cover the cost of retiling 
that wall. Mr B said the tiles are no longer available. The policy includes cover for undamaged 
matching items, as follows:
Pairs, sets and suites If you have made a successful buildings claim for an item which 
forms part of a matching set or suite, we will make a cash contribution of 50% of the cost 
of replacing or changing any associated undamaged item from the matching set or suite 
when a replacement of, or reasonable match for, the lost or damaged item cannot be 
found. By reasonable match we mean this may be similar but not an exact match. When 
we settle your claim, if we ask, you must give us any damaged or undamaged items 
which form part of the claim.
One of the four walls was affected, so QIC offered a contribution of 50% towards the 
undamaged tiles. Thats in line with the policy terms and conditions. I understand Mr B is 
unhappy with this offer and thinks QIC should pay the full cost of retiling. QICs liability is for 
damage caused by an insured event, and the policy provides for a contribution to the 
undamaged parts. I wouldnt expect QIC to pay for the full bathroom to be retiled. Arguably, 
just one wall could be retiled to provide the necessary watertight area around the shower. 
So, QICs contribution is in recognition of the loss of match. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that QIC should pay for more than is provided for under the policy.
Rendering
QIC doesnt think it should cover the cost of the render because the main cause of damage 
was age related deterioration. Looking at the survey report, the property is described as 
being in fair condition. Turning to the photos again, the parts of the bathroom not affected by 
the escape of water look to be in good condition. Theres no evidence that other tiles were 
coming away, and it appears that further tiles havent dislodged when removing those 
necessary to find the leak. If the rendering was of such poor condition, Id expect other tiles 
to have dislodged during the trace and access. But, the evidence suggests that the 
rendering was only damaged because of the trace and access, rather than the escape of 
water. 
Compensation
Mr B doesnt think £100 compensation is enough to address the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the way QIC handled his claim. I understand Mr B had the repairs done, so Ive 
thought about the likely impact of QICs decision to decline parts of his claim.
I accept that this experience wouldve been frustrating, but I must bear in mind that the event 
itself will have caused disruption. I see that there will have been a financial impact on Mr B 
because he paid for repairs which I think QIC shouldve paid for. So, Ill ask QIC to include 
interest on its payment of the repair costs to recognise the fact that Mr B didnt have use of 
that money. As that will address the direct impact, Im satisfied that £100 compensation is 
fair and reasonable for the way QIC handled Mr Bs claim. I dont plan to increase the 
compensation.
Putting matters right
In summary, I plan to ask QIC to reimburse Mr Bs repair costs for the damage caused by 
the trace and access, and the damage caused by the escape of water in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. That will include the joists and render. Mr B should provide QIC 
with evidence of his costs. Further to this, Ill ask QIC to pay simple interest of 8% per 
annum on the repair costs calculated from the date Mr B paid for the repairs to the date QIC 
issues the reimbursement. Finally, I plan to ask QIC to issue £100 compensation to Mr B by 
way of apology for the shortfalls in service. 
In terms of the tile costs, Im satisfied that QICs offer to contribute 50% towards the 
undamaged tiles is fair and reasonable, in line with the policy.I said I was minded to require QIC Europe Limited to:
reimburse Mr B for the evidenced costs of repair necessarily incurred for damage 
caused to the render, and for the water damaged joists;
pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the reimbursed repair costs, calculated from 
the date Mr B paid for the repairs to the date QIC Europe Limited issues the payment 
to Mr B, and
pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor QIC responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint and QIC Europe Limited must:
reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the evidenced costs of repair necessarily incurred for 
damage caused to the render, and for the water damaged joists;
pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the reimbursed repair costs, calculated from 
the date Mr and Mrs B paid for the repairs to the date QIC Europe Limited issues the 
payment to Mr and Mrs B, and
pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
caused.
*If Mr and Mrs B consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman