DRN-2574265
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy sold to Mr J in connection with a 
secured loan he took out in 2000. The policy provided cover for Mr J if he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Js needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr J the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr J is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr J says PPI wasnt discussed when he took out his loan, and he didnt know it had been 
added to his account. Ive noted everything Mr J has said.  
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats not 
surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
But Halifax has provided a copy of the loan application form that Mr J completed. This 
included a box that he signed to show that he wanted the PPI. There was another box on the 
form that he couldve signed if hed wanted to turn down the cover. The loan agreement that 
Mr J signed was also completed to show that he wanted the PPI. 
So on balance, from what Ive seen, I think Halifax made Mr J aware of the PPI and that he 
had a choice about buying it - although given the time thats passed I can understand why 
Mr J may no longer remember this.
Halifax accepts that it advised Mr J to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- there is nothing to suggest that Mr J wasnt eligible for the policy given his circumstances and 
the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr J says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and that he had some savings. He also says his partner couldve helped if things 
went wrong. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Js employer sick pay, and wouldve meant 
he could use those benefits and his savings to pay for other expenses if he couldnt work. And 
it wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on his partner.
So overall I think Mr J would have had some use for the policy despite his existing 
arrangements.
- Mr J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he could 
have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr J needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The policys cost was set out on the loan agreement that Mr J signed. So I think he wouldve 
known how much he would be paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The policy was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr J would have made 
a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already said, Mr J wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr J would have made a different decision if 
better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman