DRN-3933360
The complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt handled a claim he made under his 
home emergency policy fairly.
What happened
At the events of this complaint are well known to both parties, Ive summarised events. 
Mr H has a home emergency policy which is underwritten by British Gas Insurance 
Limited.  
The policy provides boiler, controls, and central heating cover.
In July 2022, Mr H contacted British Gas because of what he thought was a problem 
with his boiler.
A British Gas engineer attended and cleaned the boilers diverter and heat 
exchanger. The engineer said the system needed to be flushed.
Following this a second British Gas engineer attended who advised Mr H that his 
bath mixer tap was faulty and that this was causing the problem. The engineer said 
Mr H should contact a plumber.
Mr H bought a new mixer tap and had his own plumber install it. 
But the initial problem persisted and wasnt resolved by the new tap. So, a third 
British Gas engineer attended and fitted new boiler parts  which appeared to resolve 
the issue. 
Mr H complains that only on the advice of British Gas did he purchase and install a 
new mixer tap, but that it didnt resolve the problem. So, he thinks British Gas should 
reimburse him the cost of doing so as this was an unnecessary cost.  
British Gas said the second engineer wouldnt have recommended changing the 
mixer tap unless it was necessary. So, it didnt think it needed to cover the costs             
Mr H had incurred. It added the third-party plumber would have told Mr H if the 
replacement wasnt necessary. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. 
An investigator considered it and said British Gas hadnt treated Mr H fairly. She 
wasnt satisfied replacing the mixer tap had anything to do with the repairs ultimately 
carried out by the third engineer which fixed the problem - and so, she said British 
Gas should cover the costs Mr H had incurred in doing so.
British Gas disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached 
and Ill explain why. 
Mr H has said he purchased a new mixer tap on the advice of the second engineer 
who said the existing tap was the cause of the cold running water in the rest of his 
property. 
Ive looked at the second engineers report and can see it says, Faulty Bath mixer 
tap, advised tenant to call plumber. So, Mr Hs testimony tallies with what was 
recorded by the engineer at the time. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Mr H to rely on engineers advice given theyd 
been sent to identify the cause of the problem. British Gas appear to have accepted 
this too  as its said the engineer wouldnt have told Mr H the tap was faulty unless it 
was.  
But ultimately, the new mixer tap didnt resolve the problem, and Mr H had to have 
another engineer attend his property who ordered and replaced boiler parts. So, as 
the tap appears to be unconnected to the original problem, I dont think its fair that 
Mr H be out of pocket for having followed British Gas advice.
British Gas has said Mr H doesnt have drains and plumbing cover, so wasnt entitled 
to the taps being covered in any event. Had the new mixer tap sorted the problem, Id 
likely agree with British Gas  but it didnt. Without evidence to show replacing the 
tap was connected to the initial problem, Im not satisfied the costs Mr H incurred 
were necessary.   
In summary, Im not persuaded Mr H would have purchased and fitted a new mixer 
tap had the second engineer advised him the tap was the cause of the problem. As 
the mixer tap didnt resolve the issue, I think its fair to ask British Gas to reimburse 
him the cost of buying and installing the new mixer tap (subject to an appropriate 
invoice / receipt being provided).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mr H the costs hes incurred in buying and installing the new replacement tap 
(subject to reasonable proof of purchase / invoice). 
British Gas Insurance Limited must add 8% simple interest to this payment from the date        
Mr H incurred these costs to the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman