DRN-4216877
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont reimburse the 
money he lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr N has fallen victim to an investment scam. In summary, hes explained that he wanted to 
invest in cryptocurrency but had no experience, so he carried out some general research 
and came across a company Ill refer to as E. He received some positive reviews about E 
from his associates and he saw that E had a professional website and a worldwide client 
base. He says that E used technical and sophisticated language and came across as 
confident and knowledgeable. Overall, he believed E to be legitimate and genuine.
On 11 November 2021, he transferred £10 then £3,810 from his Halifax account to his own 
cryptocurrency wallet before sending it on to the scammer.
Mr N realised hed been scammed when E asked him to pay a fee to withdraw from his 
investment. He reported the fraud to Halifax and asked the bank to reimburse him. He said 
that he had to contact Halifax to authorise the £3,810 payment and it didnt do enough to 
prevent the scam at that time.
Halifax declined to reimburse Mr N. It said that the two payments Mr N made went into an 
account in his own name, so there was no loss from his Halifax account and no route to 
recover the funds. The bank also said that it clearly advised Mr N about the risks involved in 
investing in cryptocurrency when it spoke to him about the £3,810 payment.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint about Halifax to this Service, and Mr N asked 
for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 June 2023. Ill set out my findings below.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that the payments Mr N made to the scam were authorised under the 
Payment Services Regulations. Halifax had an obligation to follow Mr Ns payment 
instructions, and Mr N is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank should take additional steps 
before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that Halifax 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Cryptocurrency scams often involve money passing through more than one account and 
they were not uncommon at the time. I think Halifax wouldve been aware of this. The 
Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency 
scams in mid-2018. By November 2021 when the scam payments were made, I think Halifax 
ought to have had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud. So, although Mr Ns loss may not have predominantly arisen from 
the initial transfers, Im satisfied they ought to have been within the contemplation of, and 
foreseeable to, Halifax. And Im satisfied that Halifax can fairly be held responsible for the 
loss if it could have prevented it.
The first scam payment of £10 didnt trigger Halifaxs fraud detection systems and I wouldnt 
have expected it to. The payment was not particularly unusual or suspicious in consideration 
of the normal account activity. So, Im not persuaded that Halifax ought to have intervened 
with the payment or that it couldve prevented it from being made. But the second scam 
payment for £3,810 did trigger the banks fraud detection systems and it spoke to Mr N about 
the payment before approving it.
By November 2021, I think Halifax ought to have had a good enough understanding of how 
cryptocurrency scams work  including that the customer often moves money to an account 
in their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster  to have been able to identify the risk 
of harm from fraud. With its industry knowledge, I think Halifax ought to have asked Mr N 
some probing questions and given him information regarding the prevalence and typical 
features of cryptocurrency scams before processing the £3,810 payment. But Ive listened to 
a recording of the telephone conversation between the parties, and Im not satisfied that the 
bank did enough.
In summary, Mr N explained that the payment was to go into cryptocurrency. Halifax told 
Mr N that such an investment is very volatile so he could make or lose a lot of money. The 
bank asked Mr N if anyone was helping or guiding him with the investment and he replied 
that a friend was. Halifax explained that the reason it asked this question is because there 
are a lot of scams occurring in which customers are approached by brokers claiming to be 
helping them invest in cryptocurrency, but they are fraudsters.
I dont think that Halifax asked Mr N enough probing questions to get into the detail of the 
payment and/or the investment opportunity and/or E and satisfy itself that he wasnt falling 
victim to a scam, and Im not persuaded that it gave Mr N impactful information about 
cryptocurrency scams in order to bring them to life and enable him to recognise any fraud 
risk. If the bank had done enough, I think it would most likely have become obvious to the 
parties that there was a risk of harm from fraud and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
payment being made.
Ive thought about whether Mr N should bear some responsibility for the loss of the £3,810 
payment by way of contributory negligence, and, in the circumstances, I think he should. I 
say this because Mr N has said:He did some general research about investing in cryptocurrency prior to making the 
payment.
He received some positive reviews about E.
Es website looked professional.
He was told that E had a worldwide client base.
E used technical and sophisticated language and came across as confident and 
knowledgeable.
There werent any red flags.
Ive been unable to locate Es website, and Mr N hasnt provided any evidence of the 
reviews he saw about E or his conversations with E. So, I cant see whether E came across 
as professional and legitimate as Mr N has said. But Ive noted that Mr N doesnt appear to 
have taken any substantial steps to verify the legitimacy of the investment opportunity and/or 
E before he made the payment as I think he ought reasonably to have done in order to 
protect himself from financial harm.
To conclude, Im persuaded that Halifax ought to have done more to protect Mr N from the 
risk of harm from fraud when it spoke to him about the £3,810 payment and, if it had, I think 
its likely that the scam wouldve unravelled without the payment being made. But I think that 
Mr N ought reasonably to have done more to protect himself from financial harm too. So, I 
think its fair for the parties to share responsibility for the loss of the £3,810 payment in equal 
proportions  each being responsible for 50% of the loss.
Halifax should pay interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the 50% of the loss it is responsible 
for, from the date of the loss to the date of settlement, to compensate Mr N for the time he 
has been without that money and so unable to spend it on other things.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, and neither party has provided any 
new information or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should refund 50% of the £3,810 payment Mr N instructed 
as part of the scam and pay interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the payment 
to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman