DRN-3376944
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard rejected her claim 
under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of repairs carried out on her car.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs M phoned a company I will call EW enquiring about a replacement engine 
for her 10-year-old car or an engine rebuild. She was quoted a price of £2,495 and a 
timescale of 10 to 14 days. She paid a £500 deposit by credit card. Mrs M says she was told 
the work would be carried out at one of EWs local garages and that the work would come 
with a 12-month warranty. EW collected the car.
After 10 days she called to find out what was happening and she was told the work was 
being done some 120 miles away at what she presumed was one of EWs garages. She 
then received an email explaining the reason for the delays which was caused by parts not 
being readily available. After this the garage called to say the starting motor and turbo 
needed replacing at a cost of £169 and £496 plus VAT. She agreed to this, but says the 
turbo had been repaired recently and there was no issue with the starter motor when the car 
had been collected by EW.
Some days later Mrs M collected the car from the repairing garage which I will call S and 
paid £2,827 using her credit card. 
Mrs M complained to Barclaycard there was a misrepresentation under s 75 as she had not 
been told the work would be carried out so far away by S. She said had she been told she 
would not have proceeded with the transaction.
Barclays rejected her claim. It acknowledged the repair wasnt carried out locally, but there 
was no evidence to suggest it hadnt been done correctly. It gave Mrs M compensation of 
£50 delay and service issues. Mrs M brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He noted the two separate payments to two different companies and thought that there were 
two contracts. He pointed out that there was no documentary evidence for what had been 
agreed with EW. He said most likely Mrs M would have been surprised the work wasnt 
being carried out locally. He also undertook research into EW, but could find no information 
about it. Mrs M had provided screenshots of EWs website, but these didnt add much to our 
knowledge of the company.
He thought that there was misrepresentation as he didnt think Mrs M would have knowingly 
let her car be taken so far away for repair. However, he thought it likely that EW was acting 
as an agent and the charge of £500 was in effect a booking fee. It had arranged for the work 
to be carried out and so he couldnt say there had been a breach of contract. He said that 
Mrs M would have incurred additional costs in travelling to pick up the car and these should 
be repaid on the presentation of evidence.
As there was no reference to the deposit on the invoice from S he didnt believe the two 
payments could be directly linked. S had carried out the work as agreed and there was no 
evidence of misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Mrs M didnt agree and said that when she spoke to the representative from EW they had 
told her about 
1. the quality of their highly experienced mechanics who had 30+ trade years experience.
2. their workshops across the South of England,
3. An in-house machine shop to manufacture parts needed.
4. Genuine parts on all of their rebuilds.
They had also stressed the 12-month guarantee and if anything went wrong she could take 
the car back to the garage.
She argued that there was only one contract and the invoice she received from S was after 
she had entered into a contract with EW. It had merely contracted out the work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Much has been made of whether there was one contract or two and I am not sure one can 
reach a definitive answer given the lack of a written contract between Mrs M and EW. 
Indeed, there isnt a written contract with S, although we do have an invoice drawn up after 
the work had been completed. However, I do not believe it is disputed that S contracted with 
Mrs M to carry out the additional work.
However, I dont think one can reach a fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint by 
delving into the detail without appreciating the substance of the matter. In short Mrs M 
contacted EW and said she needed work done on her engine. It said we can arrange for that 
to be done and it will cost £2,495. She presumed it would be done by EW and undertaken 
locally. I cannot say if she was told that or it was inferred from what she was told. 
The work was done at that price, or very close to it. Other work was done after S notified her 
this was required and she agreed. I appreciate she says that she felt pressured into this and she isnt satisfied that it was necessary. I cant say since I have no evidence to show that the 
turbo had been repaired previously or that the starter was in good condition. 
So she paid for the work to be done on the engine and it was carried out albeit by another 
garage. I am not persuaded that it is fair or reasonable that she avoid paying for the work. I 
have looked at the cars recent MOT details and I can see that as of October 2021 the car 
had covered 126,334 miles. The invoice for the engine work shows it had done 120,647. 
That would suggest the repair was successful.  I have noted there are a number of 
advisories, but none of these suggest the repair was not satisfactory.
I turn now to the issue of misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is when a false statement 
of fact has been made and that false statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the 
goods or services. In order to find a misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof 
that a false statement of fact has been made and it needs to be decided that that false 
statement induced the consumer to enter into the agreement.
My issue is that I have no proof other than the testimony of Mrs M as to what was said in a 
phone call which took place in the summer of 2020. I appreciate she had the impression that 
the car would be repaired locally, but did this come about due to a false statement of fact. 
We know little about EW, but the address given on the screenshot provided by Mrs M shows 
a fairly local address. It is in an industrial park with a number of other garages. It is possible 
that EW did carry out work locally, but it could be that it simply acted as a broker. I simply 
cannot say which is right. It is not unusual for businesses to subcontract work and I am not 
persuaded that Mrs M has established misrepresentation. Even if she had I agree with our 
investigator that this wouldnt mean that Barclays should refund any money. 
Finally, I note that Barclays has paid Mrs M £50 for service and delay issues before the 
matter was referred to this service and I do not consider more is needed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC need take no further action apart from 
covering the cost of travel to collect the car on production of receipts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman