DRN-3057886
The complaint
Mr C complains that a van acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr C was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Motonovo. At the point of supply the van was around 4 years old and had covered 
60,000 miles.
In March 2021 Mr C experienced issues with the van stalling. He reported his concerns to 
the dealership. The dealership agreed that Mr C could arrange repairs to be carried out at a 
third-party garage.
The third party replaced the alternator in an attempt to repair the fault. Following this, Mr C 
contacted Motonovo to advise that the engine management light had illuminated, and the 
van wouldnt start. Mr C requested to reject the van. 
Motonovo arranged an independent inspection in May 2021. The engineer was unable to 
start the van because of the fault and suggested that repairs were carried out to put the van 
into a condition in which it could be inspected.
Following this, the supplying dealer arranged for full repairs to the van  instead of just 
limited repairs to get the van started. It carried out repairs to the starter motor, starter relay, 
fuel filter and DPF.
Details of the repairs were provided to the engineer who carried out the independent 
inspection. He was asked to comment on whether the initial repair could be considered as a 
failed repair. His response was that the initial repair to the alternator was not a failed repair.
In its final response to Mr C, Motonovo said that it wasnt upholding his complaint because 
there was no evidence that the repairs to the car had been unsuccessful.
Mr C was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that there was a fault with the van 
which Mr C had reported within 30 days of the point of supply. She said that although the 
repirs to the alternator hadnt been unsuccessful, there was no fault with the alternator and 
the fault was a different fault which had been present throughout and which hadnt been 
successfully repaired on the first attempt. The investigator said that Mr C should be allowed 
to reject the car.
Motonovo didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo supplied the van under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Vans are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the van and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, the 
consumer has an immediate right to reject the vehicle. After 30 days and within the first 6 
months, theres a presumption that any fault which occurs was present or developing at the 
point of sale and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed 
one attempt to repair the fault and put the car into satisfactory quality. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.
Ive looked at all of the available information. I can see that Mr C first reported a fault within 
30 days of the point of supply and that repairs to the alternator were carried out with the 
supplying dealers authority. Based on what Ive seen, this repair didnt resolve the issue or 
put the van into a satisfactory quality because soon afterwards, further faults rendering the 
van incapable of being started occurred.
Ive taken the independent inspection and the engineers further comments into account. Its 
clear from the inspection report that there was a fault with the van, because the engineer 
was unable to get the engine to start. The engineers comments indicate that the repairs to 
the alternator hadnt failed, but based on what Ive seen, its unlikely that the alternator was 
faulty because Mr C continued to experience issues with the car starting after the alternator 
was replaced. So, it seems more likely that an ongoing but undiagnosed fault existed at the 
time that the alternator was replaced. This means that the attempt at repair was 
unsuccessful.
Taking everything into consideration, Im of the view that Mr C should be allowed to reject 
the van.
I can see that Mr C hasnt been able to use the van since the end of April 2021. It isnt fair to 
expect Mr C to make payments for a van which hes unable to use, so Motonovo should 
refund all payments made by Mr C since that date.
Its clear that Mr C has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied with 
a van which wasnt of satisfactory quality. The van broke down several times and caused Mr 
C a significant degree of worry about his employment as he couldnt get to work. I think its 
fair to ask Motonovo to compensate Mr C for this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FirstRand bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay
Arrange for the van to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund any payments made by Mr C since 30 April 2021 together with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenienceRemove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman