DRN-3653863
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy about the service provided by Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) when she 
requested to transfer two of her cash Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) to another provider. 
What happened
On 10 June 2021, Metro Bank received two completed ISAs transfer forms for two of Miss S 
Metro Bank ISAs to be transferred to another provider; who I will call Bank2. Metro Bank 
prepared two cheques: one for around £46,574 and the other for around £27,325. On 17 
June 2021, both cheques were sent by recorded delivery using the postal service to Bank2. 
On 1 July 2021, Miss S called Metro Bank and said that Bank2 didnt received the cheques. 
Metro Bank told Miss S that on 20 June 2021, a delivery was attempted but failed as Bank2 
was closed on that day. 
On 13 July 2021, Miss S called Metro Bank again seeking an update, but Metro Bank didnt 
call her back. Later, Metro Bank have said that one of the two cheques reached Bank2 on 8 
July 2021, but the second cheque had not arrived. The postal service company attempted to 
deliver the second cheque on 10 July 2021, but once again Bank2 was closed, and the 
postal service company didnt attempt to redeliver. So, a further cheque was issued by Metro 
Bank on 5 August 2021 and this one was finally successfully delivered to Bank2. Metro Bank 
have told our service that based on the interest rate Bank2 wouldve paid Miss S, she lost 
out around £80 as it took nearly two months for the ISAs to be finally transferred. 
Miss S was not happy with the above situation, so she raised a complaint with Metro Bank.
 
In August 2021, Metro Bank wrote to Miss S. In this correspondence they apologised for the 
inconvenience caused, and they said that although they could not control the actions of the 
postal service company, they still upheld her complaint. They said this was because of the 
length of time it took to sort out the cheques and because they failed to call Miss S back. In 
this correspondence they explained that they have taken into consideration the total amount 
of her cheques, the rate she was getting at Bank2, and the interest that she missed out on. 
Based on this they decided to offer her compensation of a £100.   
Miss S was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint our service. As a resolution to 
her complaint Miss S would like Metro Bank to donate £300 to a specific charity she has 
chosen. 
Our investigator thought that the £100 offered by Metro Bank was fair as it sufficiently 
covered the interest that Miss S wouldve missed out on due to the delays, and that it fairly 
reflected the impact Metro Banks error had on her.
Miss S disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss S is unhappy with the £100 offered by Metro Bank. She said that as a service provider, 
when something went wrong at first attempt, then they shouldve tried their best to make 
sure nothing went wrong on the second attempt. She feels like Metro Bank shouldnt be 
putting all blame on the postal service company.
Metro Bank apologised for the inconvenience that has been caused to Miss S, and they said 
that although they couldnt control the actions of the postal company, they still upheld her 
complaint because of the length of time it took to sort out the cheques, and because they 
shouldve provided better customer service to her when she was dealing with this matter. 
It is not in dispute that there were delays and that the customer service couldve been better 
when Miss S was trying to deal with this matter. So, the only thing remining for me to decide 
is whether the compensation offered by Metro Bank is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into consideration that there were delays, but Ive also taken into consideration 
that not all delays were caused by Metro Bank. And while its very unfortunate when things 
get lost in the post, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Metro Bank responsible for 
that. It is not something which they have any control over. 
Ive also taken into consideration the impact the delays had on Miss S, and the distress and 
inconvenience that she was caused when she had to chase Metro Bank; especially when 
Metro Bank failed to keep her updated, or return her calls. But I think the £100 offered by 
Metro Bank is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the impact of this situation. The 
amount more than covers the interest that she has missed out on due the delays that can be 
attributed to Metro Bank, and it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss S has mentioned that things couldve been quicker if Metro Bank sent the funds for the 
ISAs by electronic means when she asked them to, especially as they had the necessary 
details. But the ISA transfer forms submitted by Miss S clearly requested that the funds be 
transferred to Bank2 by cheque, so I cant say that Metro Bank acted unfairly in this regard; 
especially without having new forms submitted to them.   
Overall, I sympathise with Miss S for the difficulties that she had experienced but taking all 
the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Miss S has been treated 
unfairly. Metro Bank should pay Miss S the £100 it offered, if this has not yet been paid, and 
I think it is reasonable that they are not required to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC should only 
pay Miss S the £100 it offered, if this has not yet been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman