DRN-4045139
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs V are unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to cancel the 
landlord insurance policy they held. 
What happened
Mr V and Mrs V held a landlord insurance policy with UKI. Theyd held it for a number of 
years, and it renewed as expected in April 2022. Mr V and Mrs V live abroad, and it was only 
in August 2022 they became aware of letters sent by UKI in June 2022, saying the direct 
debits hadnt been paid. 
Mrs V contacted UKI and was assured the policy remained in place and UKI would work to 
fix the problem with the direct debit. Mrs V says in November 2022 she received further 
letters, dated September 2022, letting her know the policy had been cancelled as a further 
direct debit hadnt been paid. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mrs V complained. UKI said it had written to Mrs V twice in 
September 2022 to let her know the direct debit failed. The second letter said the policy 
would be cancelled if a payment wasnt made. UKI said it had acted correctly and could not 
reinstate the policy. It arranged a new policy, but this carried an increased premium as there 
was an open claim.
  
As Mrs V lives abroad, she didnt receive the letters until after the policy was cancelled. She 
was unhappy UKI didnt reinstate the cancelled policy. It said it could only set up a new one 
which carried a higher premium. Mrs V asked this us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator said UKI told Mrs V the failed direct debit payments was due to an error on 
its part. The investigator said what she thought was fair was for UKI to pay a compensation 
amount that covered the difference between the cost of the two policies, but also recognised 
the distress and inconvenience experienced.
 
UKI disagreed with the outcome. It said it had done all it could to try and notify Mrs V of the 
failed direct debits. This case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the 
same reasons. 
Mrs V has shared screen prints of the online chats she had with UKI. In these messages UKI 
told Mrs V the responsibility behind the failed direct debit sat with it. She was offered 
assurances that, whilst a new policy needed to be set up, there wouldnt be an increased 
cost associated with the replacement policy. UKI later said the new policy attracted a higher 
premium because of an open claim. However, its likely if the original policy hadnt been 
cancelled, Mrs V wouldnt have experienced the higher premium until the first policy ended 
and a new one taken out.
Ive considered the live chat messages Mrs V exchanged with UKI. In these, she was told by 
two separate advisers there were issues with the direct debit mandate, but UKI would take 
the necessary steps to put things right. So, on the basis of that message being relayed to 
her twice, I dont think its unreasonable Mrs V didnt take any further action about the direct 
debit and trusted any issues were going to be rectified by UKI. 
In its response to us, UKI says it cant be certain why the direct debit failed. It considers it 
acted appropriately to take steps to let Mr V and Mrs V know when the payments failed 
again. Here its referencing letters sent in September 2022 to let Mr V and Mrs V know the 
payment had failed again. However, at the end of the live chat messages in August 2022, 
Mrs V asked if it would be possible for any information about future issues to be sent to her 
by email, as post took several weeks to reach her. UKI told Mrs V this wasnt possible. 
UKI referenced a decision issued by one of my ombudsman colleagues, which concluded in 
the circumstances relating to that complaint, as long as the business issued correspondence 
relating to direct debits, it wasnt responsible for post being received. 
But I think in the circumstances of this specific case, UKI said it would only correspond in 
relation to the direct debit via post, setting two-week timeframes for responses. This 
continued after Mrs V told the UKI advisers it took up to five weeks for correspondence to 
arrive. This meant it simply wasnt possible for Mr V and Mrs V to respond within the 
timeframes set by UKI. So even if those letters were automated as UKI says, I dont think its 
fair for UKI to set and rely on timeframes asking for responses several weeks before Mrs V 
would likely receive the letters. 
Whilst I accept there may be some element to what UKI says about Mr V and Mrs V being 
able to monitor the status of the direct debit themselves, Ive considered the assurances 
given to Mrs V during the live chats. These were clear in setting out the matter was in hand, 
and it would be rectified by UKI. And, for the reasons Ive set out, Mrs V didnt become 
aware of the failure again until she received the letters in November. 
However, what seems clear to me is there were two points where Mrs V experienced 
distress and inconvenience. The first was the point when she initially found out the direct 
debit failed, and second was when she received the cancellation letters. I can see in both 
instances, UKIs agents acted quickly to get things back on track. I think this will have 
minimised the impact on Mrs V. I appreciate shes unhappy with the higher premium for the 
replacement policy, but its not unusual for there to be a change in premium following a 
claim. Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this case, the £125 compensation 
recommended by our investigator is fair and appropriate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I required UK Insurance Company Ltd to pay 
Mr V and Mrs V £125 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman