DRN-3403289
The complaint
Mr M complains about poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation to his mortgage 
account. He asks for compensation to reflect the inconvenience and distress this has 
caused.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Barclays. He wanted to clear the balance by the time the term 
expired in early 2022. He made overpayments each month from early 2018. In June 2021 he 
made an overpayment of about £2,800 which reduced the balance to about £800. He 
intended to make monthly payments of £100 until the balance was repaid.
Problems with Barclays IT systems meant it was unable to set up a monthly direct debit for 
Mr Ms payments after June 2021. Mr M says he experience poor service over a long period 
of time while he tried to sort the matter out. He says he has mental health problems and this 
has caused him stress. He says hes worried his credit files have been affected and that his 
house will be taken into possession if theres an outstanding balance at the end of the term.
Mr M also complains about the time taken by Barclays to respond to his complaint, and the 
poor service he received from the complaints team.
Barclays says a problem with its systems meant it couldnt set up a direct debt and its been 
unable to fix this. It said Mr M can set up a standing order to ensure he doesnt miss a 
payment. Barclays said it hadnt recorded any missed payments or arrears on Mr Ms credit 
file. It offered £150 and a hamper. After the complaint came to us, Barclays offered to pay 
£600. It said it could pay £500 of this into Mr Ms mortgage account to clear the balance and 
close the mortgage.
Our investigator said Barclays had offered a solution to the problem with the direct debit. He 
said while Barclays had taken a long time to deal with the matter, its offer of compensation 
was fair.
Mr M provided detailed comments about why he disagreed. In summary, he said Barclays 
should pay compensation of a minimum of £7,000. He says this would reflect the fact it didnt 
resolve his complaint or set up a direct debit, despite saying it had. He said Barclays errors 
had caused his mortgage to be in arrears and he was prevented from making payments, 
leaving him saddled with a mortgage he expected to repay by the end of 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M made an overpayment to his mortgage account in June 2021. He wanted to make 
monthly payments of £100 after this. He wanted these payments to be taken by direct debit.
Theres no dispute that Barclays was unable to set up the direct debit for £100, despite a 
number of attempts. Mr M says he received several letters about the direct debit being set 
up, all of which were incorrect. He says payments were only taken by Barclays after he 
called to complain that the payment hadnt been taken. 
Mr M says he was prevented from making payments to his mortgage account. Thats very 
unlikely. Direct debits are not the only way that payments can be made. Mr M could have 
paid by bank transfer or set up a standing order. Barclays says it told Mr M he could set up a 
regular standing order for his mortgage payments  which Mr M says isnt true. Even if 
Barclays didnt offer information about standing orders Mr M could have asked about ways to 
make payments. Mr M made the lump sum payment in June 2021 and so he was aware that 
payments could be made other than by direct debit. Mr M says since June 2021 the only 
time a payment was taken was when he phoned to complaint. While not ideal, this is another 
way Mr M could have made payments. 
I appreciate that Mr M wanted to make payments by direct debit. Barclays was unable to set 
this up, and this caused inconvenience to Mr M. However, I dont think that he was 
prevented or prohibited from making payments. If Mr M wanted to make payments to his 
mortgage account either on an ad hoc or regular basis, I think he could have done so.
Barclays sent a number of letters to Mr M between June and late 2021. The letters follow a 
standard format and some of the wording (such as youve requested) wasnt accurate. The 
letters gave contradictory and often incorrect information, such as about the amount and 
date of the overpayment, the amount of his monthly payments and the remaining term. 
Some refer to his part redemption (referring to different amounts) being cancelled resulting in 
an increase in his mortgage balance. 
Barclays told Mr M the letters were generated automatically when it made changes to his 
account in an attempt to fix the problem with the direct debit. It accepted the letters 
contained inaccuracies and apologised for the confusion. Mr M said he called Barclays on 
receipt of each letter. While this was inconvenient, hopefully it meant Mr M was reassured 
that the letters could be disregarded. 
Mr M was told in August 2021 that his account was in arrears. That must have been 
frustrating. As Ive said though, Mr M could have made payments otherwise than by direct 
debit if he wanted to do so. 
Mr M says there were occasions when Barclays complaints team didnt call when promised. 
Barclays accepts this, and says its complaints teams response times were longer than usual 
at that time. Mr M told Barclays he had mental health problems and Barclays gave him 
details of organisations that might assist him. Mr M found this offensive and said he felt 
mocked. Im so sorry for this. I dont think that it was Barclays intention to cause offence or 
upset. 
Barclays says it didnt record arrears on Mr Ms credit file. While Mr M says his credit file has 
been damaged he hasnt provided evidence to support this. I dont think I can fairly ask 
Barclays to pay compensation for damage to Mr Ms credit file without evidence it recorded 
adverse data on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M told us he wanted Barclays to resolve the matter. He said it was affecting his mental 
health and he had better things to do with his time. Barclays offered compensation of £500. 
It said it could pay this into Mr Ms mortgage account, which would then be closed. I think 
this was a fair offer to resolve the complaint. With the mortgage account closed Mr M would 
no longer need to worry about the mortgage being repaid or need to contact Barclays. 
Barclays offered to increase this offer by another £100.Mr M made his overpayment in June 2021. Since then, Barclays made repeated attempts to 
sort out the problem with the direct debit. This was unsuccessful and resulted in a number of 
letters being sent to Mr M containing inaccurate and inconsistent information. Mr M says he 
was told his account was in arrears. This must have been inconvenient and frustrating. But I 
think Mr M could have avoided much of this by making payments in a different way. 
Taking all this into account, I think Barclays offer of £600 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I dont know if theres an outstanding balance on Mr Ms mortgage account. If 
Mr M accepts my decision and would like all or part of the compensation used towards 
clearing any outstanding balance he should make this clear when he accepts my decision.
Mr M says hell take legal action if the complaint isnt resolved to his satisfaction. If Mr M 
doesnt accept my decision, hell be free to take the matter to court if he wants to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £600 to Mr M, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman