DRN-3198667
The complaint
Mr W complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) for reports 
it has made to credit reference agencies. He wants the markers removed from his credit file 
and compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr W held a credit card with Barclays. Around 2015 his card had a high balance and Mr W 
arranged a repayment plan with Barclays. He agreed to repay £109 per month.
It does not appear that a direct debit was set up and Mr W fell into arrears on his plan. A few 
months later Mr W settled the arrears. 
In early 2016, Mr W set up a new payment plan. This appears to have been an informal plan 
and again no direct debit was put in place. 
Mr Ws payments were late or missed on a number of occasions between February and July 
2016. A direct debit for two months worth of payments was taken in May 2016, but then 
reversed a short time later. 
Mr W made some payments on time, but his account remained in arrears during this time. 
In September 2016 Mr W cleared his arrears. He later paid off and closed his credit card 
account. 
Around 2021, Mr W checked his credit file and learned that Barclays had reported him as 
being in arrears between February 2016 and July 2016. 
He complained to Barclays. 
Barclays sent him its final response letter in June 2021. Barclays stated that Mr W had been 
on an informal repayment plan which meant that any month where the minimum payment 
was not made, or where arrears remained on the account, was reported as a marker on his 
credit file. It considered that the information was factual and so it did not uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Mr W was unhappy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into the evidence which is available and did not uphold the 
complaint. He considered that the information reported to credit reference agencies was a 
fair reflection of the account history and was reasonable. 
Mr W did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this matter I have borne in mind that Mr Ws complaint to us was that Barclays 
has reported no payments for a period of six months during 2016/17. 
Mr W has said that this was due to failings of Barclays, and he has raised queries about the 
availability of records from the time of his payment plan and has asked how long these ought 
to be kept for. 
We do not prescribe how long businesses should keep records for and this is a matter for 
businesses to decide, taking into account data protection and legal considerations. Where 
documents are not available to demonstrate what happened, however, we will take a view 
based on the balance of probabilities as to what happened. 
If Mr W has concerns about information retention, he would need to raise his concerns with 
the Information Commissioners Office. Those concerns are not something I can specifically 
look at here.  
My colleague has set out in detail the payments that were made to Barclays over the 
relevant period, against what was due under the payment plan. These show that for the 
relevant months there were residual arrears on Mr Ws account, and that these arrears 
mounted and declined over the period, even though Mr W was making repayments. The 
arrears are reported as a number, which represent how many payments the arrears reflect, 
rather than for how long the particular arrears had been unpaid. 
Mr W has described that Barclays did not set up a direct debit for his payment plan and so 
Mr W frequently had to call to make his payments or send cheques. Mr W has also said that 
he made a large payment in May 2016 because an agent of Barclays assured him this 
amount would settle his full arrears.  
As the call record and notes from this period are not complete, I accept Mr Ws account of 
what was discussed. I accept that Mr W encountered difficulties setting up a direct debit to 
have his payments taken from him, and so he had to make his payments manually, either 
over the phone or by cheque. I also accept that it appears that his cheques may have arrived 
(or otherwise been dealt with together) in the same month, so that his payments appeared 
more erratic than he meant them to. 
However, Mr W was aware of these difficulties, and that he remained in arrears, in 2016. 
This is clear from his ultimately settling his arrears in September 2016. He therefore had 
opportunity to complain to us at the time, or within our 6-month time limit in relation to those 
issues. 
I have therefore considered the issues Mr W experienced in 2016 as context for Barclays 
reporting rather than as part of his substantive complaint, and I have considered whether the 
issues Mr W experienced in 2016 rendered it unfair for Barclays to report the arrears to Mr 
Ws credit file. 
I agree with the conclusions of my colleague, that Barclays has not acted unreasonably. 
Barclays has provided copy statements which were sent to Mr W which detail the payments 
he made and the arrears on the account. These show that arrears remained on the account 
for the relevant period. This correspondence also makes clear that businesses have a 
responsibility to report payment information accurately. 
The information reported to Mr Ws credit is accurate and a fair representation of the 
payment history of the account. I have taken into account that Barclays could have done more to facilitate Mr W making his 
payments easily, but ultimate responsibility for making his payments rested with Mr W.
Mr W was clearly able to make his payments by phone, or by regular bank payment but he 
did not ensure that payment was made and received in time. I appreciate that Mr W did not 
intend to fall into arrears over the period, but I cannot say it was Barclays fault that he did.
Overall, I do not think that it is unfair for Barclays to report the arrears that were present on 
the account. 
Consequently, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and do not ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
do anything further. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr W but I hope that it 
clearly explains my reasons for reaching it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and I do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman