DRN-1849167
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading 
as Volkswagen Finance, has made for damage to a car that he returned when his hire 
purchase agreement ended. He also complains that it has recorded adverse information on 
his credit file.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Finance 
that he signed in August 2016. He voluntarily terminated the agreement and returned the car 
to the dealer in August 2019 as he was replacing that car with another.
He says that he became aware in November 2019 that Volkswagen Finance had recorded 
missed payments on his credit file and he received an invoice of £1,787.24 for damage to 
the car. He complained to Volkswagen Finance and it agreed to reduce the charges to 
£518.14. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr C 
returned the car in August 2019 but it wasnt inspected until October 2019 - more than two 
months later. He said that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidance was 
that the driver must be advised of any damage charges no later than four weeks after the car 
was returned. He didnt consider that it was fair that Mr C was charged for the damage so he 
recommended that the charges should be removed.
Volkswagen Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
doesnt agree that the charges should be waived because of the delay in the car being 
collected. It says that theres no evidence to suggest that Mr C left the car at the dealer free 
from any damage and the delay in the collection does not go hand in hand with waiving any 
end of contract charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C returned the car to the dealer in August 2019 as he was replacing it with another car 
that was also being financed under an agreement with Volkswagen Finance. Volkswagen 
Finance sent him a letter which said that it had instructed its agent to arrange collection and 
inspection of the car and it sent him an account statement in September 2019 which showed 
that the car had been sold in August 2019 and that the balance on his account was zero.
The agent collected the car in late October 2019 and inspected it. The inspection report 
identified damage to the car and included photos of the damage. Volkswagen Finance has 
provided call recordings about the collection of the car and I consider that those recordings 
show that it knew that the car was available for collection from the dealer and that the delay 
in it being collected wasnt caused by Mr C.
The inspection report recorded the cars mileage as being 29,413 miles and identified 
damage to the car for which charges totalling £1,787.24 were recommended. Volkswagen 
Finance sent Mr C an invoice for that amount in November 2019. He complained to it about 
the charges, the delay in the invoice being sent to him and the missed payments that it had 
recorded on his credit file. It reduced the charges to £518.14.
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association Fair Wear and Tear Guide says:
If the BVLRA member intends to apply any charges, for example for excess mileage, 
damage or missing equipment, the driver must be advised of those charges no later 
than four weeks after the vehicle was returned or collected.
I consider it to be clear in these circumstances that Mr C returned the car in August 2019 but 
he wasnt advised of the charges until November 2019  more than ten weeks later. I dont 
consider that Mr C contributed in any significant way to that delay and I consider that 
Volkswagen Finance knew, or ought reasonably to have known, in August 2019 that Mr C 
had returned the car to the dealer and that either it, or its agent, was responsible for the 
delay in the car being collected from the dealer.
I consider that the guide clearly requires advice of any charges to be given within four weeks 
 that didnt happen in these circumstances. Although theres damage to the car which I 
consider would reasonably be considered to be more than fair and wear, Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Volkswagen Finance to charge 
Mr C for that damage.
Mr C says that Volkswagen Finance has recorded missed payments on his credit file. Ive 
seen no evidence to show that Mr C has missed any payments and his account statement 
shows a zero balance. Volkswagen Finance says that there was no impact on Mr Cs credit 
file until it converted the amount that it had charged him for the damage into a bad debt in 
February 2020. I dont consider that to be a true and accurate record of Mr Cs account and I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Finance to ensure that any adverse 
information about Mr Cs agreement or the damage charges that its recorded on his credit 
file is removed.
Putting things right
I find that iit would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Volkswagen Finance to 
cancel the damage charges that its applied to Mr Cs account and that it should ensure that 
any adverse information about Mr Cs agreement or the charges for the damage that its 
recorded on his credit file is removed.
 
My final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Finance, to:
1. Cancel the damage charges that its applied to Mr Cs account.
2. Ensure that any adverse information about Mr Cs agreement or the charges for the 
damage that its recorded on his credit file is removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman