DRN-3479793
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Niche 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr S was 50 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was described as 
being in normal health and at that point he had accrued around 30 years of pension 
benefits with the BSPS.
Mr and Mrs S lived in a home valued at around £210,000 with a mortgage 
outstanding of £80,000. The mortgage had around 11 years left to run.
Mr S earned over £39,000 per year and Mrs S earned £26,000. After expenses they 
had over £1,300 per month disposable income. They had £3,500 in savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss BSPS was approximately 
£494,832 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Niche said Mr S wanted to 
retire early if possible, at the age of 55.
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 6 December 2017. It advised Mr S to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Niche said this 
would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S accepted this advice and so transferred to a 
personal pension. In 2021 Mr S complained to Niche about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Niche said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
Niche referred in its transfer analysis and suitability letter to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. However, I think its important to say that Niche itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Ss existing scheme were high. This is 
because in its suitability letter, of 6 December 2017, Niche said it would not recommend a 
transfer out on the basis of being able to exceed the critical yield rate, in a new personal 
pension plan. Nevertheless, Niche went onto recommend that he should transfer out 
anyway, but for other reasons. 
However, I also want to be clear that the critical yield wasnt, in my view, realistically 
achievable. I also think Niche showed Mr S a lower critical yield rate  one that wasnt the 
most applicable to his situation. In my view, this was a significant failing by the Niche adviser 
and it was misleading. 
Niche said, for instance, that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 
in the BSPS2, was 5%. It didnt explain this very well and I can see from another document 
(the transfer analysis) that this figure was if he took a pension at 65 without a tax-free lump 
sum.
However, Niche itself said that Mr S wanted to retire at 55 and the entire recommendation to 
transfer out was therefore built on that premise. But for a retirement at 55 the critical yield 
rate was much higher  9.97%, rather than the 5% rate quoted for a retirement at 65. As our 
investigator pointed out, this wasnt referred to in the suitability letter. So as well as being 
high, I dont think Mr S was given the information he needed to make an informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement (age 65), which is well below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. For an early retirement, at 55, the discount rate was only 3%. 
Because these discount rates are significantly below the critical yields Ive referred to, this 
infers that reaching a growth level required to help make a transfer-out worthwhile, was 
highly unlikely. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. Mr S was 
categorised as a cautious attitude to risk (ATR). So, the regulators lower rate, which was 
applicable here, was again well below the critical yields. The critical yield rates for a reduced 
pension under the PPF scheme were lower than the others, but Niche said Mr S wasnt 
interested in doing this. Everything Ive therefore seen here strongly suggests Mr S would 
receive lower pension benefits as a result of transferring out.
In addition to all these things, Ive also noted that Niche said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 
65, the funds required would be around £865,000 if taking a full pension and £712,000 if 
taking a pension and lump sum. Those costs at the age of 55 were slightly lower, but sill well 
over £600,000. All the sums to buy an annuity with similar benefits were therefore far higher 
than Mr Ss CETV, so I think they provide a revealing window into the value of the benefits 
Mr S was being advised to give up by transferring away.Although Niche wasnt as clear as it should have been about this when advising Mr S, it did 
tell him it wouldnt recommend a transfer on the basis of the critical yield figures alone. And 
clearly, having said this in 2017, it would be very hard for it now to argue these growth rates 
were achievable.
Of course, these could all said to be moot points, because Niches recommendation that he 
should transfer out to a personal pension plan was not predicated on the financial 
comparisons with the BSPS2 or PPF. Rather, Niche said Mr S had different reasons to 
transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
Niche recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Ss 
wider objectives. It listed the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Mr S said hed like to retire early from the steel industry at 55.  
Niche said hed have complete control over the funds if he transferred out, and what 
these were invested in. He could access the funds flexibly after 55 in a personal 
pension.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension. He 
could nominate someone as a beneficiary.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that Niche recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr S. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early 
Niche mentioned several times in documents from the time of the advice that Mr S had said 
he wanted to retire early. I dont doubt that Mr S might have genuinely hoped to retire as 
early as 55, which is what was recorded on the fact-find. But, aged 50, Ive seen nothing 
that shows retirement was anything more than something Mr S aspired to do at that stage, 
as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. 
Even if I were to consider that Mr Ss retirement plans were more fixed - and he really did 
want to retire early - I think Niche should have better assessed the possibility of achieving 
this goal whilst being a member of the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the 
BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have been an option for Mr S, although this would 
have meant Mr Ss pension benefits would have been somewhat different due to him 
accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I think this was discounted by Niche as Ive 
seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more 
in Mr Ss best interests. The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely.
Niche also promoted that Mr S could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But Niche should have 
been telling Mr S at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left 
for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr S faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility
I cant see that Mr S required flexibility in retirement in the way Niche suggested. In any 
event, flexibility was poorly defined by Niche and in my view, it done a very poor job of 
assessing what Mr Ss income requirements in retirement would actually be. Ive seen in the 
transfer analysis of 6 December 2017 that Niche said that Mr Ss estimated annual pension 
upon his NRA was estimated as £26,315 per year, or £16,406 per year at the age of 55, both 
in BSPS2. As a DB pension this would have been guaranteed and index linked. So, I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Mr S wouldnt have been able to meet his likely 
retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead of transferring out to a 
personal pension plan. 
Ive seen nothing that shows Mr S had a need for flexibility in his income going forward. In 
fact, I think the objectives listed by Niche in the context of flexibility are no more than stock 
ideals and probably unrelated to Mr Ss situation. Under the auspices of a DB scheme and 
their other resources, I think Mr and Mrs S could hope to enjoy a very satisfactory retirement 
from a financial perspective. So, whenever Mr S chose to draw his pension benefits, I think 
he and Mrs S were in a good position. 
For instance, I dont think Niche took enough account of his second pension  his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. Mr S and his employer were making 
significant contributions to this of 6% and 10% respectively and there was already £3,000 in 
the fund. So, even a few years worth of being in this pension would have mattered - there 
could have been a reasonable amount in this DC pension to complement his deferred DB 
scheme (in BSPS2). Even if retiring at 55, there would likely be well in excess of £35,000 in 
this pension and if hed worked toward his NRA, there could easily have been substantially 
more than this.
So by retirement  whenever it came - on one hand Mr S could have had a long-standing DB 
pension with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other 
hand, hed have built up a reasonable DC pension over a few years, which, if he later found 
he did require flexibility, this pension could have helped provide this. 
I have therefore considered what Niche said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, Mr S was already able to retire early from the BSPS2 if he wanted to which would 
have been in accordance with his aspirations. Niche also implied that Mr S would be able to 
have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive seen nothing which 
shows Mr S had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. 
The evidence here is that Mr Ss previous exposure to investing was extremely limited and 
he wanted no risk. 
So, I think Mr Ss circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 
and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Because he also had a smaller second DC pension, and Mrs S also evidently had a pension of her own, this supported that 
strategy in my view. 
I therefore think the suitable option was for Mr S to access his DB pension in the way it was 
originally intended.
Death benefits 
Niche says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr S died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr S. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what 
extent Mr S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr S was only 50 years old and apparently in good health. But Niche made repeated 
references to Mr Ss health being an issue supporting the transfer-out advice. Niche said his 
parents had died young and Mr S feared he might not live to his normal life expectancy. In 
my view, it portrayed Mr S as someone whos health was so bad that planning for an early 
death was the prudent thing to do in his case. 
However, Ive seen absolutely no evidence to support this stance. In my view, Niche had no 
basis for raising poor life expectancy as a genuine reason to transfer to a personal pension.
These types of issues, in a pension context, are important: life expectancy plays an 
important part in pension planning. However, in this case there was no evidence to support 
the view that Mr S might not reach a reasonable age. As Ive said, the information recorded 
at the time says his health was normal and there was no suggestion whatsoever to imply he 
ought to adjust his retirement planning because of his health. Mr Ss parents had passed 
away at relatively young ages, but from what I can see, there were specific illnesses involved 
and there was nothing to suggest these were, for example, hereditary conditions. I think the 
Niche adviser fell a long way short of what Id expect in a case like this  they took a 
comment from Mr S, failed to be inquisitive about it, and used it out of context to support a 
recommendation to irreversibly transfer away from a DB scheme.  
Mr S was married, so I think the likely death benefits attached to the DB scheme were 
substantially underplayed here. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have 
been very useful to Mrs S if Mr S predeceased her. I dont think Niche made the value of this 
benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension plan 
upon Mr Ss passing, particularly if he lived a long life. Niche should therefore not have 
encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that Niche took into account the fact that Mr S could have nominated 
Mrs S (or anyone else) as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme when he 
eventually retired. As Ive said, these could have reached a reasonable sum due to the 
contributions being added. Niche said hed be able to nominate other beneficiaries in a personal plan, but theres nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt wish to nominate his own 
wife, already covered by the BSPS2 scheme, in the event of his death.
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at 50 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have been an affordable 
product if Mr S really did want to leave a legacy for either his wife or adult children. So, to 
this end, Mr S already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with 
him.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Niche said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Niche said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche 
should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Niches recommendation to Mr S to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Niche ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ss best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr S still had a 
few more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr S would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr S was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr S chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I also think Niche should have advised Mr S to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr S would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Niche disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr S, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr S to transfer out, and I think Mr S relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Niches advice. I say this because Mr S was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ss concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Niche had explained Mr S was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Niche should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S several times whether he preferred any redress to be 
calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. His representative didnt make a choice when we asked, so as set out previously 
Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of 
my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr S of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £400 should be paid to Mr S by Niche for what he referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Ss age, circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in his 
pension to that date; Mr S had built up his pension over a long time. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would still have been a significant part of his overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr S. So, I agree that 
Niche should also pay Mr S £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman