DRN-3433137
The complaint
Ms J complains about the advice that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) 
gave her following the sale of a property. In particular, she says she was only looking for a 
short-term investment and wasnt made aware of the fees involved. 
What happened
Following a property sale, Ms J met with an advisor from SJP in August 2019, looking to 
invest £150,000. 
SJP say they advised her to invest in a selection of funds which they say matched her 
medium attitude to risk. They say they also advised her to make use of her annual ISA 
allowance and invest the remainder outside of an ISA wrapper. 
In 2020, Ms J complained to SJP. She said that her appetite for risk hadnt been assessed 
properly, that the investment didnt meet her short-term need to use the funds to buy a new 
house and that she wasnt made fully aware of the fees involved in the investment. 
SJP responded to say that it was a medium-term investment and that there was nothing 
recorded on the file to say that Ms J was looking to take her money out in the short-term. 
They pointed to a recorded objective of capital growth. They also said that fees were 
discussed and sent in writing.
As Ms J remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it. She said that the investment matched Ms Js attitude 
to risk at the time of sale, according to the documentation we had been provided with. She 
also said that she couldnt see any record of Ms J being recorded as wishing to get her 
money back within 12 months to buy a property. She felt that the relevant docs had been 
sent in the post and that SJP werent responsible if she didnt receive them or chase them 
up. Whilst she also felt that the fees charged had been made clear and in witing, she did 
agree that SJP shouldve updated Ms Js email address sooner and suggested £100 
compensation for the impact this caused. Which she felt had been lessened by the 
information having been sent in writing.
Ms J remained unhappy. She maintained that shed made it clear that it was a short-term 
investment and felt some wording from the point of sale implied this. She also pointed to 
some errors and discrepancies in the information which she felt supported her belief that the 
investment had been mis-sold to her. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Fortunately, as the sale only occurred in 2019, we have been able to get a copy of both the 
fact find and suitability letter, completed with Ms J at the time. She was recorded as having 
no financial dependents and looking to invest £150,000 of the approximate £250,000 she 
held as cash-based investments at the time. This means she had a further £68,000 held in 
ISAs and £15,000 in shares. After the investment she was to retain £100,000 as available 
cash savings and was recorded as having no outstanding liabilities. 
SJP say in the suitability letter to Ms J that she wanted higher growth and capital growth. 
Her attitude to risk was recorded as medium. I think this is fair based on her circumstances 
at the time. Whilst I appreciate she was retired and so wasnt able to recover any losses 
through employment, she was left with a substantial cash savings reserve. I am also 
satisfied that the funds selected (with Ms J also being recommended to make use of her 
annual ISA allowance) were all assessed as medium risk or lower. 
However, Ms J says that the recommendation wasnt suitable as she was only looking to 
invest for the short-term and made the advisor aware that she was going to need the funds 
after a few months to purchase a property. However, there is nothing regarding this 
objective, recorded in any of the point of sale documentation. The recommendation letter 
only points to getting a different rental property the following summer. 
Ms J has pointed to the statement from the SJP advisor which states that she was looking to 
grow capital in the 1st year. However, it stated after this, and potentially support rental 
costs if needed in the future. I believe the statement means that after the first year there 
might be a need for Ms J to take income from the investments to pay for rent. I dont believe 
this shows that the advisor was aware that Ms J would be selling the investments after a few 
months to buy a property. Further, whilst such funds should be seen as a medium to long 
term investment, I havent seen any evidence of penalties or charges for taking the money 
out in the shorter term. 
Ms J has also said that the fees involved were not fully explained to her. However, I have 
seen copies of the illustration and investment certificates sent to her and they include the 
fees and are in whole figures. Ms J has said that she didnt receive these documents and 
has disputed that they were posted to her, along with other point of sale documentation. 
However, I have been provided with copies of them, they are correctly addressed and SJP 
has provided us with evidence from their systems to show they were sent. Whilst Ms J might 
not have received them, I cant hold SJP responsible for that if they sent them correctly and 
if there is no evidence of Ms J chasing them up. Which I cant see that she ever did. 
Ms J is also unhappy that SJP didnt update her email address correctly so she could have 
received a copy of information in that format. I agree with the investigator that this should 
have been done sooner. However, as I concluded above, I believe information was sent to 
Ms J in the post and she could and should have chased this up with SJP if she hadnt 
received anything. I agree that considering that the information was still sent in the post, 
£100 compensation for not updating this sooner is fair. 
In summary, whilst I empathise with Ms Js situation that there was a fall in value due to 
market conditions shortly after investment, I dont agree that the recommendation was 
unsuitable. I believed it matched her attitude to risk and circumstances at the time. I cant 
conclude that Ms J made SJP aware she would need use of the funds after a few months 
and I think the fees were made clear. However, she should be compensated for SJP not 
updating her email address sooner. My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I only uphold this complaint in part. 
To put things right St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Ms J £100 if they 
havent already done so. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman