DRN-2833408
The complaint
Mr L complains that esure Insurance Limited undervalued his vehicle when he claimed on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Ls vehicle was stolen and wasnt subsequently found. Mr L claimed under 
his motor insurance policy with esure. Esure valued his vehicle at £7,967 and explained that 
it would pay him that amount less the excess payable by Mr L under the policy.
Mr L says esures valuation falls far short of the amount hed need in order to buy a 
comparable vehicle. Hes provided a number of adverts for similar vehicles for sale which 
show prices significantly higher than the amount esure valued the vehicle at.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said hed considered motor trade valuation guides, and taking those into 
account, he thought esures valuation was fair.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should say at the outset that my role isnt to place a value on Mr Ls vehicle. Instead, I need 
to decide whether esures settlement figure is within a fair and reasonable range, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of his policy. So my staring point is to look at the policy 
wording.  
The policy provided that esure wouldnt pay more than the market value of vehicle at the 
time of the loss, less the total excess payable. This is a term we see in most motor insurance 
policies.
Market value is defined in the policy document as  the amount  you could  reasonably  have  
expected  to sell your car for on the open  market  immediately  before  your accident  or 
loss.  Our assessment  of the value  is based  on cars of the same  make  and model  and of 
a similar  age, condition  and mileage  at the time of accident  or loss.  This value  is based  
on research  from motor  trade  guides  including:  Glasss,  Parkers  and CAP.  This may not 
be the price  you paid when  you purchased  the car.
We think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value of a vehicle is to look at 
the main motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we 
may think its reasonable to ignore it.
esure based its valuation of Mr Ls vehicle on the retail values shown in the motor trade 
guides. Ive seen copies of the valuations it got. They took into account the approximate 
mileage of Mr Ls vehicle, and were based on the assumption that it was in good condition 
when it was stolen. They were: 
Glasss: £7,998
Parkers: £7,005
CAP: £5,836
Cazana: £11,027
Our investigator also got valuations from the motor trade guides. The mileage-adjusted 
valuations he got were £5,850 (CAP), £7,070 (Parkers) and £12,798 (Cazana). He wasnt 
able to get a Glass valuation. And given that the Cazana valuation was so far out of line with 
the others, he thought it was reasonable not to take it into account. So he thought that it 
would have been reasonable for esure to use a valuation anywhere between the CAP 
valuation and the Parkers valuation. And esures valuation of £7,967 was therefore fair.
Mr L reiterated that similar vehicles are being advertised for significantly more than esure 
valued his vehicle at. So he doesnt believe that the figures quoted by esure represent the 
real market value. And hes said again that the figure esure valued his vehicle at isnt 
anything like enough to enable him to buy a comparable replacement.
Establishing the replacement cost of a stolen vehicle isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale for a significantly higher price than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around. 
Esure used what we consider to be the fairest way of establishing the market value of Mr Ls 
vehicle. I dont think it would have been unreasonable to exclude the Cazana figure from its 
calculations. It was more than £3,000 higher than the next highest valuation. Thats a 
significant proportion of the full value of the vehicle, whichever of the figures is used. But 
esure didnt do that in this case. Instead, it based its valuation of £7,967 on an average of 
the four valuations it got. And because that included the Cazana figure, the valuation it 
settled on was at the top end of that range.
Its arguable, in my view, that the CAP valuation could also have been excluded, as it was 
significantly lower than the two middle valuations that esure got (the Glasss and the 
Parkers valuations). But even if both the CAP valuation and the Cazana valuation were 
excluded, the average of the two remaining valuations  Parkers and Glasss  is £7,501.50. 
Thats still less than the amount that esure valued Mr Ls vehicle at.
So based on our research, and looking at what esure has done, Im satisfied that esures 
valuation of Mr Ls vehicle is fair.
I know that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr L. I realise that he feels strongly 
that the valuations given by the motor trade guides dont accurately represent the market 
value of his vehicle. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable of esure to calculate its valuation 
in the way that it did. And I cant fairly require it to do more.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman