DRN-2873129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Thornton & Baines Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
wrongly advised them to take too much risk with the money they held in Cash ISAs, 
particularly given they wanted to access this money in three years time when their daughter 
got married. They also say T & B failed to maintain contact or advise them when the value of 
their investments fell.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said they only approached T & B for advice about a Will and had no intention 
of putting their Cash ISA monies at risk, especially as they were expecting to spend a 
significant amount of it in the near future on their daughters wedding.
T & Bs advisor got them to complete a questionnaire designed to assess their attitude to 
investment risk. Despite Mrs H showing a markedly lower attitude to risk, the advisor 
recommended they both invest in medium-risk products.
There were extensive exchanges between Mr and Mrs H, T & B and this services 
investigator with little disagreement about the facts of the case. I will therefore not outline 
these details.
In essence, the investigator concluded that there was no persuasive evidence that Mr and 
Mrs H had told the advisor that they were only looking for a short-term investment. Nor did 
he feel there was not sufficient evidence to say they were not in a position to take any risk 
with this £30,000 of their overall assets. He therefore didnt believe it was wrong to 
recommend they move their ISA cash into risk-based products.
He also felt, on balance, that Mr H had indicated sufficient appetite for risk to warrant the 
advisor recommended the funds in question. But he was satisfied that Mrs H had expressed 
sufficient concerns about the risk of her money falling such that the advisor should only have 
recommended she take a small or modest risk with her money.
He noted Mr and Mrs Hs responses to key risk-based questions:
a) When I am faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the
possible losses than the possible gains  both Mr and Mrs H replied agree.
b) I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain 
about my investments - both replied agree.
c) I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain of 
my investments  but replied agree
A further two questions showed a significant difference in their attitudes:
d) Taking financial risks is important to me  Mr H agreed, Mrs H disagreed.
e) I would be happy investing a large proportion of my income in a high-risk investment  
Mr H replied disagree, while Mrs H replied strongly disagree 
Overall, he felt T & B should calculate how much Mrs Hs invested money would now be 
worth if it had only placed at a small risk (using this services widely-accepted low-risk 
returns formula). If this showed she had made a loss via what he considered an excessively 
risky product, T & B should pay the difference - and add 8% interest to any loss from the 
date the investment was surrendered.
Mr and Mrs H did not disagree with the investigators View.
T & B did disagree, saying:
We wrote to both Mr and Mrs H, explaining clearly the difference between risks and 
the reasoning behind the advice. Mrs H agreed with this and did not ask to be a low-
risk investor at any point in the many meetings held before the application stage or 
lower her risk during the two years she was a client. Mrs H was allowed to make 
these changes, as we communicated regularly.
Furthermore, both Mr and Mrs H had worked for banks in the past, and so would be 
aware of risks involved with investments. Most experienced investors class 
themselves as risk level 7, as Mr H did. Mr H claimed that although he was a risk 
level 7 (out of 10), Mrs H was slightly lower. Both Mr and Mrs H were present when 
all the meetings were conducted, so they were both aware of the risks Mrs H was 
taking.
Before Mrs Hs plan went live, we wrote to them explaining what medium risk is 
and included a graph of potential losses. We clearly pointed out she would be 
going into a medium risk portfolio, which she did. The chart shows that, in a very 
weak market, an investment of £10,000 could fall to £8,710 in one year, which 
represents -12.9%. Mrs Hs performance over two years was -17.4%, which is less 
of a loss than we displayed in the graph (as -12.9 was one year, two years would 
be a more significant loss). 
Clients are given the choice of risk categories, and we also check that they are 
choosing the suitable risk based on what we know of the client. Mr and Mrs H both 
wanted to move away from cash, and great discussions were held about the risks. 
It had been noted that both Mr and Mrs H were investing for the medium to long 
term. If they remained in the investment, no losses would have been suffered, as 
already, the investments are backed up. Mrs H increased her risk and losses 
suffered by reducing the term of the investment, something that was out of our 
control.
I think it is unreasonable for any person to expect investments to perform well in a 
short period of two years, granted that the losses could be less than what they 
were. However, had Mrs H left her investment in place, it would now be worth more 
than £12,403. Her choice was to encash the plan and take no advice from us on 
the matter, essentially crystallising a loss. This was totally out of our control.
I do not think it is fair to rationalise somebodys risk based on the chart we presented 
that showed potential losses. Our practice is to determine someone's overall attitude 
to risk based on many material facts and, using all the answers to the risk profile, 
gauge what the client thinks and record their own words.
In their own words, Mr H said that he was a risk level 6 or 7, and Mrs H was slightly 
less. It would be fair to interpret slightly less to mean 4 or 5.In the investigators response, he mentioned: "I will now look at the investment risk 
that was advised and consider how suitable this was for Mr and Mrs H's needs. An 
attitude to risk questionnaire was completed and Mr H came out as seven out of ten 
('highest medium') and Mrs H came out as six out of ten ('high medium'). Following 
further discussion, Mr Hs attitude to risk was reduced to six and Mrs H's to five 
('medium')."
Again, I believe this is crucial to proving that Mrs H discussed her risk in detail and 
decided to classify herself as medium risk. We decided to lower the risk level from 6 
to 5, and we could have just as easily reduced it to 3 or 4. However, that was not 
what our discussions led to, nor was it what Mrs H wanted at the time. It, of course, 
makes no difference to us what risk level a client is in, so what merit would there be 
in us lowering the risk from 6 to 5, instead of 6 to 4.
The evidence points to risk level 5 being selected as the clients choice. Having 
considered all the options, there is no evidence of T&B acting unfairly in 
determining the client's risk and placing them into the appropriate funds. I believe 
the assessment of T&B acting unfairly is based on the client having not invested 
before in such a way, something which T&B took into account, and this is the 
reason T&B recommended a lower risk rating than that one suggested by all the 
responses given.
Furthermore, how assets are allocated is based precisely on the risk level chosen. 
We use Oxford Risk, which is a spin-out company of Oxford University, offering 
investor risk profiling solutions for any investments they may have. Devised from 
decades of academic research into the measurement of psychological traits, the 
format uses psychometric questions to evaluate a client's overall willingness to take 
a risk, delivering accurate and consistent results. 
The result was level 6, but because there were discussions and assessments, we, 
along with the client, chose level 5. Oxford Risk then determine the associated 
asset allocation based on someone's risk. We double-check this against FE 
Analytics, an award- winning company linked to FT Adviser, a financial times 
company.
We can find no supporting evidence that states 58% was in equities and that, 
therefore, it is risky. On We can find no supporting evidence that states 58% was in 
equities.
On the contrary, evidence points to this portfolio being medium risk. Both Oxford Risk 
and FE analytics, who are market leaders in asset allocation, deem the portfolio 
suitable for a person who was risk level 5 or medium risk. We follow the asset 
allocation model they use. 
Additionally, I cannot find any supporting documentation that states that 32% of the 
funds being non-UK means that there is more risk associated with a portfolio. In fact, 
there are many safer companies based outside of the UK, such as Amazon, Apple, 
Netflix and Google. The UK sector is not considered less risky than many of the 
funds selected. If they were, that would reflect in the overall risk rating, as determined 
by both Oxford Risk and FE analytics.
I agree that the two questions from the risk profiling tool indicate that Mrs H is a low-
risk investor, however, two questions out of over 20 asked only represents 10% of 
the overall assessment. We should consider all of the questions as determined by 
Oxford Risk and the entire industry. 
If taken in isolation, some of these questions could mean that Mrs H was high risk. 
For example, question two that stated "To achieve high returns, it is necessary to 
choose high-risk investment", Mrs H agreed with this. I assume that they were 
looking for high returns. However, this would have been wrong, as it is not possible to 
determine Mrs Hs risk based on only questions two and three.
My point is that, you cannot be selective with questions. When there are 20 
questions, profiling the client (i.e. age, the desired outcome of the investment), there is also client input to consider. It is not fair to say that, based on just two responses, 
they should have been risk level 3 or 4 instead of 5, not failing to mention gaining the 
client's agreement to the risk before the investment is placed.
On page 19 of the Estate planning report (suitability letter), there is evidence of the 
questions we asked and Mrs Hs responses. I want to comment on some of these 
responses to further illustrate my point.
It is important to note that the client had a choice of 5 responses: Strongly Agree, 
Agree, Neither Agree nor Disagree, Disagree, and Strongly Disagree.
Question 1: "I would be willing to risk a percentage of my income or capital to get a 
good return on an investment." Mrs H responded Agree. An indication of someone 
aware there can be losses and is willing to risk some capital.
Question 2: "To achieve high returns, it is necessary to choose high-risk investment." 
Again Mrs H responded Agree. I would say that this would be the response of an 
individual who is aware that investments come with risks.
 Question 3: When I am faced with a financial decision, I am generally more 
concerned about the possible losses than the probable gains. Mrs H responded 
Agree again. This question would indicate a lower risk of an individual and is factored 
in the overall assessment. We would not make a risk assessment based on one 
question and its response.
Question 4: I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of return than 
be uncertain about my investments. Agree again. We class this as a lower than a 
higher risk investor.
Question 5: Compared to the average person, I take lower financial risks. Mrs H 
disagreed with this statement, indicating that she would not want low risk.
Question 6: I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in shares. 
Given that part of the redress suggestion is 50% of bank deposits, this does not sit 
with the client's views. As she said, she disagreed with this comment.
Question 7: I do not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty. Mrs H disagreed 
with this, indicating that she is comfortable with financial uncertainty, and again, low 
risk would not offer this.
Question 8: I would accept potential losses in order to pursue long-term investment 
growth. Mrs H agreed with this, and this response is a clear indication of someone 
prepared to accept some losses.
One or two questions cannot determine risk. Asset allocation was assigned based on 
risk and predetermined by experts in risk- based solutions. We determined the client 
as risk-based five and we constructed a risk-based five portfolio. 
I am convinced of the in-depth risk analysis following discussions with the client and 
having written to confirm this was more than enough to establish Mrs H as a risk level 
5. I am also convinced that the portfolio is a risk level 5, as determined by Oxford 
Risk and FE Analytics. We trust their ratings and scoring systems.
We acted fairly in the initial advice and provided an ongoing service delivered at the 
start of the pandemic when most firms were refusing clients. We were proactive in 
our assistance. Had Mrs H remained with us, she would not have crystallised the 
losses.
The investigator responded, saying:
Im of the opinion that Mrs H was an inexperienced investor and was therefore 
wholly reliant on the adviser. I think it was the role of the adviser to determine the 
most level of risk for Mrs H rather than for her to tell him if she wanted to change it.
I feel its the role of the adviser to assess a clients attitude to risk and not allow the 
clients to say what they thought they were. I would only expect a client to make their 
own decisions if they were an insistent e than one occasion that Mrs Hs risk level 5 
was her choice.In the suitability report (EPR 3 August 2018), it clearly states the target asset 
allocation for a portfolio with risk level five out of ten has 58% in equities. This is 
more risky than a low risk portfolio. Also, having rate risk which can increase the risk 
to the investor.
There were only 10 questions asked to Mrs H. I agree that looking at questions in 
isolation can take the attitude to risk questionnaire process out of context a bit, but 
I chose those two questions as they, in my opinion, were very telling. Mrs H said 
she wanted more financial certainty and was more concerned by losses than 
gains.
She was also asked Taking financial risks is important to me, to which she 
disagreed. Another strong indication that she had a low attitude to risk.
I strongly disagree with your assertion that agreeing to the statement To achieve 
high returns, it is necessary to choose high risk investments means Mrs H was 
looking for high return. In my opinion, she is simply agreeing to a broadly known 
fact about investments.
I understand that assessing risk isnt an exact science and different advisers 
assess it differently. But I dont think that anyone who said they wanted a 
guaranteed rate of return, is more concerned about losses than gains and doesnt 
think taking financial risk is thought to have been advised to invest in a portfolio with 
58% invested in equities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for exactly the same reasons. As such, there is 
little I can add to what he has previously said. In particular, I agree with his assessment of 
the significance of certain responses to the risk-based questions and his rebuttal of T&Bs 
responses to his View. I do believe that the questions and responses he drew specific 
attention to are the most important when assessing Mr and Mrs Hs likely attitude to putting 
their money at risk. I also agree that responses to Question 2 do not offer any insight into 
how much risk Mrs H wanted to take. 
Ultimately, it was for the advisor to fully and fairly assess Mrs Hs attitude to investment risk 
i.e. the extent to which she was keen to place this money at risk  and to fully and fairly set 
out the potential implications of his assessment of her risk appetite and of the proposed 
recommendations.
Ive seen no persuasive to indicate that Mrs H was an experienced investor or would have 
completely understand the implications of his risk assessment and whether it fairly reflected 
her wishes.
Different businesses use different risk assessment tools in order to try and understand a 
clients appetite for risk, if any. They also have differing numbering systems and differing 
classification systems. Any tool can only offer a partial insight into a clients risk appetite and 
needs to be considered alongside their needs, objectives or objective capacity for loss.
This is why it is not for this service to assess each and every tool available on the market or 
to solely consider a clients agreed or chosen risk classification number when assessing the 
appropriateness of a recommendation. In this context, I believe that the answers to some 
questions may be more telling than others and completely disagree with T & B that simply 
adding up responses gives a reliable guide to a clients actual appetite for risk.
 In this case, it seems as if the advisor completely ignored the response to one key question: 
How much of your investments could you afford to lose without reducing your future 
standard of living? Mr and Mrs H responded: I could afford a small loss. This is one of the 
reasons why we at this service consider the overall evidence about a clients situation, likely 
appetite for risk, their own testimony and other evidence.
In this case I note that Mrs H said they went to the advisor solely to obtain help with a Will. I 
have no reason to doubt this. This does not mean it was wrong for the advisor to initiate a 
conversation about investing their cash ISA money but it is a factor when considering Mr and 
Mrs Hs original intentions, particularly given their limited investment experience, and likely 
objectives.
Their responses to the risk questions do suggest they were prepared to put some of their 
money at risk but, taken in totality, I dont think they show that they were collectively looking 
to take a substantial risk with this money. This however was the result of the advisors 
recommendations.
There is an argument that both should have been recommended to take no more than a 
modest risk with their money (given their responses to what I consider to be the most 
important questions) but, on balance, I am satisfied that the investigators proposed redress 
formula is fair and reasonable i.e. it would have been reasonable to recommend they put half 
of their joint money into a medium-risk product and half into a low risk one.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not 
been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs H's circumstances and objectives 
when they invested.
What T & B should do
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly T & B should:
1.Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value 
of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.
2.Provide the details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment status benchmark from (start to (end additional
name date) date) interestMrs H's 
ISAsurrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, it should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared 
to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. 
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs H into that 
position. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs H would have invested 50% of their 
money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return 
Mr and Mrs H could have obtained from investments suited to their objective 
and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
Further informationThe information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website 
by searching for quoted household interest rates, clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates  Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations by following this link: 
https://www.financial ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- 
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Thornton & Baines Independent Financial Advisers 
Limited to pay compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman