DRN-2708263
The complaint
 Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc failed to stop a cheque as instructed.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs G paid a tradesman with a cheque for £864, drawn on her Santander account. 
She thought this cheque had been lost in the post, and so she phoned Santander and asked 
them to cancel it, intending to deliver a replacement cheque by hand. Santander failed to 
cancel the cheque, and when this error came to light Santander missed a second 
opportunity to cancel it. The result was that when the cheque turned up at the tradesmans 
office, it was presented for payment and cleared.
Meanwhile, the tradesman had done a shoddy job, and so Mrs G had not yet given him a 
replacement cheque. She had been negotiating with him about remedial work. The 
tradesman had initially agreed to fix the problem for no extra charge, but when the cheque 
cleared he refused to do any more work unless he was paid to do it. Mrs G blames 
Santanders error for undermining her negotiating position.
Mrs G complains about that, and also about how Santander handled her complaint. She 
says that Santander seemed determined not to uphold her complaint, because it asked her 
for evidence that she had not already paid the tradesman by some other means (because 
Santander said it would only refund the cheque if she had paid the tradesman twice). She 
said that Santander had failed to recognise the level of anxiety the whole matter had caused 
her, and that it had made her anxiety worse by not keeping her informed. Santander paid her 
£125, made up of £100 for not cancelling the cheque and £25 for not calling her back after 
promising that it would.
Mrs G brought this complaint to our Service, and our investigator upheld it. She 
recommended that Santander pay Mrs G a total of £300 (that is, another £175) to better 
reflect the anxiety she had been caused, and taking into account that Santander had twice 
failed to stop the cheque. But she did not think it would be fair to recommend that Santander 
refund the cheque, since Santander was not responsible for the tradesmans work. She said 
a cheque was similar to a cash payment.
Santander accepted that opinion, but Mrs G did not. She said that she should be put in the 
position she would have been in if no error had been made and the cheque had been 
cancelled. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree that a total of £300 is fair compensation. I will explain why.
It is not in dispute that Santander failed to cancel the cheque on two occasions, so I can 
uphold this complaint without explaining that decision any further. Santander now accepts 
that Mrs G was caused considerable anxiety, and I think that £300 is a fair amount to award 
for the overall amount of distress Mrs G has been caused. Mrs G has made submissions 
about the fact that this compensation is for two issues: some for not calling her back, and 
most for not cancelling the cheque, but I dont think it is necessary for me to assess each 
problem separately. Rather, I am considering the total amount of compensation for 
everything in the round. It just remains for me to decide whether the cheque should be 
refunded as well.
Normally, my usual approach to compensation would be to put the wronged party back in the 
position she would have been in if nothing had gone wrong. In this case, that would mean 
refunding the cheque, because if it actually had been cancelled as requested, then Mrs G 
would still have her money. However, I dont agree that would be the right thing to do in this 
instance, because Mrs G had a contract with the tradesman under which she was obliged to 
pay him (and this is not a case where she has paid him twice). She has told us that she 
never intended to withhold payment, and she always meant to pay him once the remedial 
work was done. So if I ordered the bank to refund the cheque now, I would essentially be 
holding Santander liable for the tradesmans failure to complete his work, and I dont think 
that would be fair and reasonable.
If Mrs G had made her payment with a Santander credit card, then I might have been able to 
hold Santander liable for that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Or if she 
had paid with a debit card, then Santander could have attempted to get her money back 
under the chargeback scheme. But there is no such protection with a cheque payment. So in 
this instance, I think that any dispute between Mrs G and the tradesman should be resolved 
between them, without requiring Santander to remedy the problem instead of the tradesman.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs G £175, in 
addition to the £125 it has paid her already (making a total of £300).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman