DRN-3416341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about the service provided by Metro Bank PLC when they were 
trying to withdraw funds from their savings account.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N opened an 18-month fixed term deposit savings account in 2019. 
In 2021, Mr N contacted Metro Bank to find out how he could transfer the money out of the 
account after it matured in June 2021. Over a series of phone calls, Mr N was given 
information which resulted in him making a trip to a Metro branch in the UK in June 2021 
where he was told the withdrawal couldnt be made unless Mrs N was also present. 
Metro considered Mr N and Mrs Ns complaint. They agreed Mr N had been given some 
incorrect information and offered £100 in recognition of this. 
Mr and Mrs N werent happy with this and referred their complaint to our service. Our 
Investigator agreed Metro had provided incorrect information and recommended they pay 
£400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, along with £20 to cover the 
cost of Mr Ns unnecessary trip to the branch.  
Mr and Mrs N said they didnt agree with all of the Investigators findings but were prepared 
to accept the Investigators recommended redress. Metro didnt think anything further 
compensation was warranted but indicated they would be willing to increase their offer to 
£150. 
As Metro Bank didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank accepts that they did not give Mr N the correct information during the initial 
phone calls he had with them. Metro shouldve told Mr N when he first contacted them that 
there was restriction on the account and the only way to transfer the money out would be for 
both him and Mrs N to attend the branch. 
When Mr and Mrs N first opened their account in 2019, they did so online. Metro told Mr N 
when the account was first opened both account holders needed to register and log in to 
internet banking. It seems Mr N had registered for internet banking but Mrs N did not. 
Because of this a restriction was placed on the account which meant transactions out of the 
account could only be carried out with both account holders present. 
Mr and Mrs N were living abroad in June 2021. Its inevitable that attempting to conduct 
banking in the UK from abroad will be more expensive and inconvenient than it otherwise 
would be. Particularly because Mr and Mrs N did not have their internet banking security 
information or did not have continuous access to the UK phone number theyd provided 
Metro Bank. So while I understand these factors exacerbated the problems Mr N 
experienced, I dont think I can fairly hold Metro responsible for these issues.  
Mr N has told us that the trip he made to the UK in June was solely to deal with this issue 
relating to Metro Bank. However, he mentioned in the call on 21 June that he was coming to 
the UK on business the following week. So Im not persuaded that the first trip made to the 
UK was solely for the purpose of dealing with the issue with Metro. So I dont agree Metro 
needs to cover the costs of Mr Ns trip to the UK. 
However, Mr Ns trip to the branch required train travel from his home in the UK to another 
city, and I agree that this was unnecessary and caused by the incorrect information given by 
Metro. So I agree Metro should reimburse Mr N £20 and pay 8% interest on this.  
Mr N said he has lost interest because he wasnt able to move the money until 4 August, 
when he and Mrs N were next due to be in the UK, more than a month after the account 
matured. As Ive said, because of the restriction on the account, both Mr and Mrs N were 
required to attend a branch to make the withdrawal but Mr N told Metro in a phone call Mrs N 
wasnt able to travel  so it seems more likely than not that the earliest both of them could 
travel to the UK and visit the branch was 4 August. So I dont agree Metro need to cover the 
lost interest. 
Nonetheless Mr N has been inconvenienced and distressed by the wrong information given 
by Metro, the unnecessary visit to the branch and poor handling of some of the calls with 
Metro. And I agree with our Investigator that £100 Metro already offered isnt sufficient, nor 
do I think their increased offer of £150 is enough. 
Having considered all the circumstances of the case, I agree £400 fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr N. I say this because Mr N had to make a series of phone 
calls, during which incomplete or incorrect information was given. He was given assurances 
during some of the calls that later transpired to be untrue and was, understandably, 
frustrated as a result of Metros communication. He had to take an unnecessary trip from his 
home in the UK to another city to visit the branch. I have also considered Mr Ns concern 
was likely worsened by the amount of money in the account  more than £100,000 - since 
he was having trouble arranging for the money to be transferred. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
To put things right, I require Metro Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr and Mrs N £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Pay Mr and Mrs N £20 to cover the cost of Mr Ns travel to visit the branch in June 
2021. Metro should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the 
date of the branch visit to the date its paid.*
*If Metro considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs N how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mr and Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman