DRN-4167156
The complaint
Miss P complains that Age Partnership Limited didnt arrange a lifetime mortgage for her.
What happened
Miss P decided to apply for a lifetime mortgage  a form of equity release  and got in touch 
with Age Partnership to ask it to arrange a loan for her. Shed seen advertising suggesting 
that Age Partnership could help with releasing funds from a property.
Miss P wanted to borrow around £10,000  partly to give to her daughter so her daughter 
could repair her car, and partly to refurbish a holiday home, as well as repaying money her 
daughter had lent her. 
Age Partnership said that it couldnt recommend a  loan for Miss P, and no application was 
made.
Shortly afterwards Miss P received a marketing letter from Age Partnership inviting her to 
contact it to discuss equity release, and suggesting she might be able to borrow up to 
£56,000.
Miss P complained. She said she needed the funds, and she didnt think it was fair that Age 
Partnership wouldnt help her. And she said it didnt make sense that it had told her she 
couldnt borrow £10,000 but then invited her to borrow £56,000.
Age Partnership said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said Miss P had approached it looking 
to borrow £10,000  with around £1,000 for repair of the car, £4,000 for the holiday home 
and £5,000 to repay money her daughter had lent her. 
Age Partnership noted that Miss P was in receipt of state benefits and asked her to get 
advice on whether releasing equity would impact her benefits. It said Miss P had been 
advised that if she borrowed more than £6,000 her benefit income would be reduced. 
Age Partnership said that Miss P told it that she hoped to pay the loan off within a year or so. 
It said that this wasnt usually appropriate for equity release lending. It also said that it had 
discussed her application with several lenders, but they werent prepared to lend because of 
Miss Ps circumstances. Age Partnership said that as a result it wasnt able to recommend a 
loan for Miss P  because it didnt think a lifetime mortgage would be suitable for her, and 
because in any case it was unlikely a lender would lend to her.
Age Partnership said the marketing letter was general marketing and wasnt a promise that 
Miss P specifically would be able to take a lifetime mortgage. It has now removed her from 
its mailing list so that she wont receive future marketing material.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ps complaint should be upheld, so she asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Age Partnership isnt a lender. Its a mortgage adviser  it helps customers apply for a 
mortgage. But it can only do that where its likely to be accepted by a lender, and where Age 
Partnership thinks a lifetime mortgage is the right thing to do.
In this case, Miss P wanted to borrow about £10,000. She told Age Partnership why she 
wanted the money. She also said that she was expecting to be paid compensation from a 
court case which she would use to repay the loan.
Miss P wasnt working. Her only income was from state benefits. Her benefits are means 
tested. This means that if she releases equity from her property, her benefits are likely to 
reduce  or even stop altogether.
If that happened, Miss P wouldnt have any income. This would cause her significant 
problems.
Age Partnership discussed her case with several lenders. But the lenders werent willing to 
lend to Miss P. Equity release isnt designed to be a short term solution. And the lenders 
were concerned that Miss P wouldnt be able to afford to look after the property and keep it 
in good repair. 
Age Partnership is subject to strict rules as a mortgage adviser. It can only recommend a 
mortgage if it thinks that the mortgage is suitable for Miss P  that its the right thing for her 
particular circumstances.
Because taking a mortgage would mean she lost her income, and because paying it back 
over the short term would make it very expensive, Age Partnership didnt think a mortgage 
was right for Miss P. And in any case it couldnt find a lender willing to lend to her.
I think Age Partnership acted fairly. Its job is not just to find a mortgage  its to find a 
mortgage only if thats the right thing to do. It was reasonable for Age Partnership to decide 
that a lifetime mortgage wasnt suitable for Miss P, and to tell her that it couldnt help her. 
Miss P was upset to receive a letter a few weeks later  she thought this meant Age 
Partnership had changed its mind and was now willing to find her a mortgage not just for 
£10,000 but for £56,000. But I dont think thats what the letter says. Its not specific to 
Miss P. Its just a standard marketing letter explaining that it can help customers arrange 
mortgages up to a certain limit. 
The letter didnt suggest that Age Partnership had changed its mind and was now willing to 
find a mortgage specifically for Miss P. But I agree it wasnt appropriate to keep sending 
letters to Miss P after it had already decided it couldnt help her. Age Partnership apologised 
for that and has now removed Miss P from its marketing list so she wont get similar letters in 
the future. I think thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman