DRN-1653858
 
The complaint 
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. 
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Mrs M took out in 2001. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs M says 
she wasnt aware it had been added.
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ms application form. The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have to sign this section if they wish to take out the policy. Mrs M signed the 
section. And she signed the overall credit agreement, so I think if there was anything on the 
form, she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed to, she would have had the opportunity to 
question it at the time.  
On balance, I think FICL made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mrs M says she would 
have received sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out 
alongside her employee benefits meaning she could have used those to cover other 
essential costs. 
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments that her husband would have been able to support her if she 
couldnt make her repayments. Whilst I dont doubt her husband would have wanted to help, 
peoples circumstances can change, and this help couldnt be guaranteed. So, I think it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs M says she couldnt afford the PPI but Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was 
unaffordable  for example, it doesnt look Mrs M went into arrears on her account which 
would indicate someone was struggling to maintain their finances. As such, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of anything FICL might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs M has said, but for the reasons explained above 
these points dont change my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman