DRN-4162296
The complaint
Ms T is upset that Ikano Bank AB (publ), who Ill call Ikano, applied the payment deferral
period on her loan from the point the loan was agreed and not from the date the goods were
delivered.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month. An extract from that provisional decision 
is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms T but a dont think Ikano have done anything substantially wrong
here, and Im not expecting to ask them to take any action.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms T entered into a Buy Now Pay Later loan with Ikano in September 2021. The agreement
she signed explained:
BUY NOW PAY LATER LOAN CUSTOMERS ONLY: No payments are due for the first 12
months, the deferred period. Interest is calculated on the amount of Credit and applied from
the date the application is accepted.
Ikano reminded Ms T of those conditions when they wrote to her in August 2022. They said:
If you would like to pay back your loan without paying interest, you need to pay £1456.98 by
06 September 2022 and Interest will be charged on this amount from the date the
application was accepted and will be applied at the end of the Deferred Period.
I dont think that was unclear, and I dont therefore think Ikano were unreasonable to do so,
despite delays in the goods being delivered to Ms T. There was no agreement, that I can
see, that the deferral period would start from the date the goods were delivered.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Additional comments
Neither Ms T nor Ikano provided any additional comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive therefore found no reason to alter my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman