DRN-4006555
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to her and her husband and 
that the timeshare company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit 
provided by Vacation Finance Limited (VFL). Because of that, Mrs C says that she has a 
claim against VFL in the same way she has a claim against the timeshare company. 
Mr C sadly passed away in September 2022. I have assumed that any rights he had to 
pursue this complaint have passed to Mrs C, whether by survivorship or otherwise, and that 
she is therefore the sole complainant now.  
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company, which Ill call F.
What happened
Mrs Cs complaint concerns the sale of a timeshare product provided at the time by Azure 
Resorts, a timeshare and holiday company. 
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs C bought from Azure XP Limited points (called XPs) which they 
could exchange for holiday accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor 
home hire, and driving experiences. They bought 6,000 XPs for £16,300, funded in part with 
a 120 month loan of £11,410 from VFL in their joint names. 
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In June 2021 F contacted VFL on behalf of Mr and Mrs C. F said that the XP points had 
been misrepresented to them. F said that Mr and Mrs C had been told when buying previous 
timeshare products that they were an investment, but in March 2018 they had been told they 
could not be sold after all. Mr and Mrs C were told that they would have to buy XP points in 
order to sell the timeshares. They have not been sold.
F said too that, because the Azure companies were in liquidation, they could no longer 
provide the services sold. They were therefore in breach of contract. 
Further, F said, it was not disclosed to Mr and Mrs C that a commission would be paid, no 
checks were carried out to ensure Mr and Mrs C could afford the loan payments, and they 
were pressured into buying the XP points on the day.     
VFL did not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It said, in summary:
Its claim letter was in a form which F repeats for all its clients, regardless of the factual 
circumstances. 
There was no evidence of undue pressure in the sales process.  
Mr and Mrs C had the benefit of a statutory 14-day cooling-off period.
There was no evidence that Mr and Mrs C were told that the purchase price was only 
available on the day. In any event, if such a statement were made, it would not be 
untrue.  
Mr and Mrs C were not obliged to take out finance with VFL, or at all. 
VFL had carried out its usual procedures in assessing whether the loan was affordable.
The claim letter made various references to Mr and Mrs Cs previous timeshare 
contracts. VFL said however that the only purchase they had made was that made in 
March 2018. 
The timeshare clubs are now operated by different companies, which still provide 
services to members. 
It did not receive any commission.
F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. F made further submissions 
in response, which I summarise below:
The XP points were represented as giving easy access to a wide range of resorts, but 
there was limited availability when Mr and Mrs C tried to book. The level of membership 
they bought did not give them access to the level of accommodation they had been led 
to believe.
It would take Mr and Mrs C more than 30 years to redeem their points. 
Azure did sell timeshares as investments. This service has found that Azures resale 
scheme has been discontinued.
The sales agreement shows that XP points can only be sold through Azures own 
scheme. 
It is widely accepted that timeshares tend to be overvalued and it is unlikely that any 
can be sold on.   
F asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
General comments
VFLs response to Mr and Mrs Cs initial complaint had the effect in part of highlighting the 
areas of disagreement. That is to be expected and assists a dispute resolution body  
whether this service or anyone else  in identifying what matters need to be decided. 
But it also made a very serious allegation, which I set out (anonymised) in full:
The letter of complaint, on more than one occasion, makes reference to "previous 
timeshare products" that had been purchased by Mr and Mrs C from Azure. The purchase 
made by Mr and Mrs C on the 20th of March 2018 is the only purchase, to date, which has 
been made by Mr and Mrs C from Azure. This represents a clear lack of attention to detail on 
your part and is a clear indication that this letter of complaint does not truly represent the 
facts and circumstances surrounding the purchase made by Mr and Mrs C. The letter of 
complaint states that Mr and Mrs C were urged to enter into the agreements in question as 
their fictitious 'current timeshare product' was unsellable and that they should convert it to 
the XP points system. This claim is of course entirely false. Mr and Mrs C purchased the 
time-share product in question of their own free will and for no other reason, aware of its 
nature and purpose.
Whether Mr and Mrs C were existing timeshare owners in March 2018 is a simple question 
of fact. Fs initial letter of complaint said that they were, and that their concerns about the March 2018 agreement relied to a large extent (although not exclusively) on that being the 
case. The indication was that Mr and Mrs Cs decision to buy XP points was heavily 
influenced by their inability to sell existing, but unspecified, timeshare products. 
It is in my view rather surprising, therefore, that F has not addressed VFLs allegation of 
untruthfulness  either by providing details of the timeshare products that Mr and Mrs C did 
own, or by explaining how such a significant misunderstanding had come about. F will no 
doubt wish to do so when responding to this provisional decision.     
I note as well that F has provided only a one-page summary of Mr and Mrs Cs purchase 
agreement. Since their complaint is based to a large extent on what they say were 
discrepancies between what they were told was in the agreement and what they actually 
agreed, I might have expected Mr and Mrs Cs representatives to identify and comment on 
the parts of the agreement that are relevant to those alleged discrepancies. 
I turn now to the specific points made.
Affordability and suitability checks
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that VFL had not carried out any checks 
to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr and Mrs Cs needs. It also said 
that they had not been given any choice about the lender they used. 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. VFL said that it did carry out appropriate checks, 
although there are few details of what that involved. 
I note however that, when Mr and Mrs C referred the complaint to VFL, they had made 
payments in full and on time. They had not suggested they were having difficulty doing so, 
and they do not appear to have approached VFL seeking any kind of accommodation  for 
example, a payment break or payment plan. 
The fact that a borrower is able to make repayments is not, of itself, evidence that payments 
are affordable, still less that the lender made proper checks before agreeing to lend. It might 
indicate however that, even if proper checks had been carried out, the lending decision  
and therefore the overall position  might well have been no different. 
There may well now be reasons why Mrs C is finding it difficult to meet the loan repayments. 
If she is, I would expect VFL to discuss the position with her and to seek to come to some 
arrangement.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. There is no dispute in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the XP points. The 
loan documents indicate that the credit intermediary was Azure Services Limited. For 
reasons I shall discuss further, it is not clear whether that company was also the supplier. 
VFL has not suggested however that the necessary arrangements were not in place for 
sections 56 and 75 to apply, and I have therefore approached the case on the assumption 
that they did. It is of course open to the parties to make further submissions on this point, 
should they wish to do so. 
I must therefore consider what F has said about the alleged breach of contract and 
misrepresentations. 
Breach of contract
The purchase agreement is a one-page document which does little more than record Mr and 
Mrs Cs details, the date and the purchase price. It does not identify the supplier or seller. If 
there are further documents (such as printed terms and conditions), I will consider them 
when I issue any final decision.     
In its initial letter of complaint, F said:
Azure are now in liquidation. They cannot provide the service sold. They are in breach of 
contract.   
The first of those statements was true, but it did not follow that there was a breach of 
contract. I am aware from other complaints of the Azure Experiences Membership Club.
Azure XP Limited had founded the Azure Experiences Membership Club. It had ownership of 
or access to properties which were to be used by members, but transferred those ownership 
and access rights to a different company, the sole shareholder in which was to be a trustee.   
On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Cs purchase of XP points remain 
available to her and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
I do not believe that the services have to be provided by any particular company. The 
contract is performed if the services are provided; they do not have to be provided by Azure. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
As I have said, much of what Mrs C says she was told here concerns the possibility of selling 
timeshares. But she says too that she was told the purchase of XP points would make that 
easier. As I have noted, however, it is far from clear that Mr and Mrs C were existing 
timeshare owners. Even if they were, there is no explanation of how the purchase of points 
would help with the sale of timeshares. If Mr and Mrs C had been told that  or had 
otherwise believed that to be the case  I would have expected them to ask for more 
information.    
I noted as well that I have not been provided with a full set of the contractual documents in 
this case. It is likely that they would have included the Club Rules and information about how 
bookings could be made, how points could be redeemed, how long membership would last, 
what fees would be due and what resale arrangements there might be. 
On the basis of what I have seen to date, however, I am not persuaded that Mr C was misled 
about the purchase of the XP points. There is very little evidence specific to her and her 
husbands experience and no explanation of why (if that is the case) she believed what she 
was told rather than what was in the documents.   
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any related agreement. Whilst the position is not entirely clear, its likely that the 
sale agreement was a related agreement here. 
As well as saying that misrepresentations made by the seller meant that the loan agreement 
created an unfair relationship, F says that Mr and Mrs C were not given a choice of lender. 
There is however nothing to suggest that they could not have selected their own lender 
(although doing so would have lost them some of the protections under the Consumer Credit 
Act). It was also open to them, subject to means, to pay for the XP points without taking out 
any finance. 
F says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr and Mrs C. 
There is however no suggestion that it was important to them, or that it would have made 
any difference to their decision to purchase. Be that as it may, VFL says that no commission 
was paid, and I have no reason to doubt that.
Mrs C has said too that her husband was very ill at the time of the sale and that he was later 
advised by his doctor not to fly. Whilst I understand her point here, I have seen nothing to 
suggest that Azure or VFL knew of his condition. Even if they had, I think Mr and Mrs C were 
better placed than anyone to know [whether] buying a product which was likely to involve 
overseas travel was appropriate at the time.   
Finally, F says that Mr and Mrs C were subjected to high pressure sales tactics. There is 
little detail of what is meant by that in this case. Be that as it may, they had 14 days in which 
to consider their decision and to withdraw from both the sale agreement and the loan. So, 
even if accepted that the sale was pressured, I would need to consider why Mr and Mrs C 
didnt then take the opportunity of withdrawing from the agreement (and the financial 
commitment that went with it) when they were able to review that decision in their own time.   Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mrs C has a claim against Azure, or whether she might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140A of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Cs 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that VFLs response to the claims was fair and 
reasonable.    
I will however [consider] any further evidence and arguments before I issue my final 
decision. I have given an indication of the areas which I would expect that evidence to cover. 
I did not uphold the complaint, and invited further submissions from both parties. 
F clarified that Mr and Mrs C had only bought XPs on one occasion, in March 2018. They 
were not existing timeshare owners or Azure Resorts members. 
F also provided a copy of the purchase agreement for the XPs, the Rules of Membership, 
the Reservation Rules and the Deed of Trust. The purchase agreement identified the seller 
as Azure XP Limited.
F said that Mrs C did not recall the word investment being used in relation to the sale, but 
that did not mean the XPs were not marketed as such. 
F also repeated that proper checks were not carried out to ensure the loan was affordable. It 
said that Mrs C was now having difficulty making repayments.  
On 5 May 2023 the High Court issued its judgment on a judicial review of two decisions of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service in respect of timeshare cases ([2023] EWHC 1069). F 
asked for additional time to consider the effect, if any, of the courts decision on this case. 
That request was granted.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully the judgment in the judicial review, as well as the further 
evidence provided and submissions made by F. 
I am not persuaded that there is anything in the judgment to make me change my view of 
this complaint. Whilst it sets out wider principles in some areas, I dont believe they are 
directly relevant to the complaint made here; I must decide this case on its particular facts. 
To a large extent. Mrs Cs initial case was that it was inappropriate to sell XPs as a 
replacement for an existing timeshare arrangement. Since however F has now clarified that 
there was no existing timeshare, it is clear that the XPs were not sold on that basis. That the 
complaint was initially made on that basis does, in my view, cast some doubt on the 
credibility of the other submissions made on Mrs Cs behalf. 
There is virtually no evidence to support most of the other allegations made on Mrs Cs 
behalf. For example, there is nothing to support the allegation that it was difficult to secure bookings, and no evidence of any attempt to dispose of the XPs. Nor is there any evidence 
that the XPs were sold as an investment, and Im not persuaded they were.
I note as well that the sale agreement included an entire agreement clause, by which Mr 
and Mrs C acknowledged that, in entering into the sales agreement, they had not relied on 
anything not included in it. They also acknowledged receipt of Standard Information, the 
Rules of Membership, Reservation Rules, and the Deed of Trust.     
The further evidence provided also includes information about the finance options available. 
They indicate that it is not the case that Mr and Mrs C were given no choice of lender. The 
VFL option was offered to customers who wanted to pay 30% or more as a deposit and take 
a loan for the balance, which is what Mr and Mrs C did. Again, I would note that the 
statement that Mr and Mrs C were given no choice of lender when the documents show the 
opposite to be true leads me to doubt the truth of other statements made on their behalf. 
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that I should reach a different conclusion from that 
set out in my provisional decision. 
I would however comment that, notwithstanding my findings about the affordability checks 
carried out in 2018, it is possible that Mrs C is now having difficulty making payments. F has 
submitted some information about her income and expenditure which suggests that might be 
the case. And of course, her circumstances have changed recently. If she is having 
difficulties, I would expect her to contact VFL to discuss them; I would also expect VFL to 
consider what assistance it might be able to offer Mrs C. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint and do not 
require Vacation Finance Limited to take any further steps to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman