DRN-3991393
The complaint
Mrs P complains about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s handling of her 
Buildings Warranty claim.
All references to NHBC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I wont be considering
I understand Mrs P has strong feelings about what has happened  and that our service has 
previously considered other complaints about NHBCs handling of her claim. But the role of 
this service is to look into individual complaints, and not to police or review how a business 
undertakes everyday activities or conduct investigations into how a customer has been 
treated through the life of their relationship with a business I want to assure Mrs P Ive 
considered everything shes said very carefully. 
But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or 
to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs P, 
and by NHBC, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case.
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs P. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
An ombudsman provided a final decision for one of Mrs Ps previous complaints in April 
2021. The previous decision addressed some of the items that are set out in NHBCs report 
of November 2021. I can see our investigators view incorrectly extended to comment on 
matters which fell under the previous ombudsmans directions. As such I will not comment 
on these here.
Mrs P referenced a number of these items as closed in her letter in February 2022. Im not 
intending to comment on these in my provisional findings. However, any reference to these 
is purely for the context of addressing this complaint.
An independent surveyor previously visited the property in February 2021 and provided a 
report on several aspects considered in this complaint. I shall refer to them below as M.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the insurance element of the policy to engage the following needs to be identified
A defect
Physical or major damage a result of the defect
The cost of repairing the above exceeds NHBCs minimum claim value
If any of these arent met, then there isnt a valid claim under the policy.
Lead Flashings
Ms report highlights a breach in NHBCs technical requirements. But neither M or NHBC
have referenced any physical damage. I appreciate Mrs Ps concerns that damage will
happen in the future. But I cant comment on what might happen. Only what has happened.
And as there is no evidence of physical damage. I dont think NHBC are obviously wrong to
decline this element of the claim.
The Driveway
The policy sets out a list of what it covers. Having looked at the policy, I cant see that
driveways are covered. So, I dont think NHBC are wrong to decline this element of the
claim.
Grouting
Mrs P says NHBC agreed to rectify issues identified with grouting in the bathroom. NHBCs
report says it isnt covered under the policy, and from reviewing all other available evidence I
cant see anything that persuades me that is has agreed to rectify these issues.
Ms report identifies possible issues causing the cracking, which could point to a potential
defect. But these opinions are not supported by testing. So, Im not persuaded from the
available evidence NHBC have acted unreasonably here.
Insulation
Mrs P has previously complained about insulation in the property and NHBC carried out
rectification works, under Section 2 of the policy, following a thermal imaging report carried
out in November 2016. Ms report includes thermal imaging that highlights areas they said
required attention  which includes rooms previously considered in relation to the insulation
issues, although not specifically in like for like places.
NHBC has said it will consider evidence repairs have failed. But I cant see its directly
responded to the thermal imaging in Ms report which points NHBC as a guide to where
attention should be focussed.
Mrs P has raised this with NHBC, and our service has enquired about what its response was
provided, but I have seen nothing that persuades me this has been addressed.
NHBC is obligated to provide a lasting and effective repair under the policy. So, its
reasonable it responds to this and re-examines this.
However, areas not previously considered relating to the insulation in the home will not be
considered as no cover is provided for this under section 3. Which is the correct section of
the policy for any new issues to be considered under. If Mrs P isnt satisfied with NHBCsresponse, she may consider bringing a further complaint to our service.
Section 4 of the warranty
The below items have been considered under section 4 of the warranty. For a claim to be
successful under this area of the policy it needs to be identified the item in question does not
comply with requirements of building regulations and because of this, poses a present or
imminent danger to physical health or safety to the occupants.
Wall Straps in Roof
Ms report identifies this hasnt been installed according to NHBCs technical requirements
and is not structurally sound. NHBCs report broadly agrees with this but notes the strap is
still providing some restraint. However, having reviewed M and NHBCs comments, neither
identifies immediate danger. So, Im not persuaded NHBC is obviously wrong in not taking
action here.
Gas Supply
Ms report details the gas supply has not been sleeved. NHBCs report also identifies this 
with a photo. Mrs P had a gas engineer attend in April 2022 who confirmed the pipe had not
been sleeved  and was in contravention of Gas Safe Regulations. Mrs P has provided
evidence of the costs incurred for this inspection. If it hasnt done so already, NHBC should
make this payment to Mrs P  it should also add 8% from date of invoice to the date it makes
settlement.
NHBC will also be required under the terms of the policy to rectify this. If NHBC chooses to
offer a settlement, rather than carry out the work required, it must do this at the cost to
Mrs P, on receipt of reasonable quotes.
Additional Item - Damaged roof mortar.
Mrs P says the claim value should be calculated at the cost to the customer, not at NHBCs
rates. However, the policy sets out about the minimum claim value and the cost is what
NHBC would have to pay to have the work done. This isnt an unusual term and NHBC have
provided a breakdown of its costs for repairing this issue, which Im satisfied shows it doesnt
meet the minimum claim value. So, I dont think NHBC have acted unreasonably here.
Compensation
I appreciate Mrs P feelings about the service she has received, and the time taken to
manage her claim. And she does have my natural sympathy about this. However, in
considering compensation, I will only do so where I can identify NHBC have made an error,
and this error has led to a particular impact.
NHBC confirmed that some of the items on their investigation report should not have been
added. As they had previously been considered under another claim. NHBC have offered
Mrs P £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
However, Ive also considered what I set out regarding the insulation and thermal imaging
report above. Mrs P has continued to raise concerns about this, and while this has been
referred to in NHBCs report, it hasnt provided detail as to why the insulation repairs
completed are sufficient or the photos its referenced to Mrs P.
There is information from an independent surveyor that highlights concerns in an area whereNHBC have previously carried out works, and NHBC has not responded to this. I can
appreciate why this would cause further concern to Mrs P about energy and heat loss, and
the associated costs, which I can also understand would cause stress as shes described.
So, considering everything available. I think NHBC should increase its award of
compensation by a further £300 to a total of £450.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint. To put things right Im
minded to direct National House-Building Council to:
Re-examine the claim for the insulation to ensure a lasting and effective repair has
been carried out for the items previously considered in Mrs Ps claim.
Reimburse Mrs P the costs incurred for the Gas Engineer inspection.
It should add 8% simple interest to this cost, from date of invoice to the date it makes 
settlement to Mrs P.
Rectify the issues with the un-sleeved Gas Pipe.
Pay Mrs P a total of £450 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
NHBC responded to say it accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs P responded with further comments for me to consider. 
In summary, she said:
NHBC failed to work to industry standards and Mrs P strongly felt the lead flashings 
were defective.
The driveway had been damaged by NHBC and as such was a negligence claim 
against NHBC. Mrs P feels this meets the requirement of a defect as physical 
damage has taken place.
Mrs P reiterated NHBC had agreed to rectify issues with the grouting. She mentions 
claiming for defective grouting under a warranty provided by NHBCs contractor when 
the bathroom was ripped out around 2018. Mrs P has also asked what testing has 
been carried out.
Regarding the wall straps, Mrs P says she reserves the right to review this in the 
future and to bring a claim should an issue arise.
Mrs P has concerns about NHBC completing work to the gas supply in a timely 
manner. Shes requested I direct NHBC to make the payment for the gas supply and 
complete gas works by a deadline.
Mrs P feels the damaged roof mortar should be considered under her claim or she 
should be compensated as she has had to pay out for rectification herself.
Mrs P doesnt agree with the compensation I intended to award in my provisional 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I set out before, I fully acknowledge Mrs P has not had a pleasant experience with her 
home, and that matters have been ongoing for some time. For this she has my natural 
sympathy.
But NHBCs warranty doesnt cover every issue that may arise with a new build home. And 
our service isnt a regulator. Were only able to look at individual complaints and issues that 
are within our services power to consider. 
NHBCs warranty isnt just an insurance policy. That means some of the actions NHBC 
undertakes arent insurance related and there are certain aspects we cannot consider.
 
So, although, Ive considered what Mrs P has said, it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. 
Lead flashings
As I set out in my provisional findings Ms report does highlight a breach in NHBCs technical 
requirements. But neither M or NHBC have referenced, or provided, any evidence of 
physical damage. 
As there is no evidence of physical damage. I dont think NHBC are obviously wrong to
decline this element of the claim.
The driveway
As I set out in my provisional findings, I cant see driveways are covered under the policy, so 
I dont think NHBC were unreasonable to decline this as a claim under the warranty. 
If Mrs P feels the damage has been caused by NHBC she will have to refer the matter back 
to it to consider. But this falls outside of our services jurisdiction, so Im unable to provide 
further comment on this.
Grouting
Ive not seen any evidence of testing from either M or NHBC. However, I cant see grouting 
is covered under the policy and Ive seen nothing to persuade me NHBC agreed to rectify 
issues with the grouting. 
Again, if Mrs P considers this to be related to a warranty for works carried out by NHBC or its 
contractors, she will have to refer the matter back to it to consider. But this falls outside of 
our services jurisdiction, so again Im unable to provide further comment on this.
Wall straps
In my provisional decision I said from reviewing M and NHBCs comments, neither
identifies immediate danger. So, I wasnt persuaded NHBC is obviously wrong in not taking
action here.
If Mrs P feels this situation should change in future, she can refer it to NHBC to consider. If 
she is unhappy with its response, its possible our service may be able to consider a future 
complaint regarding this aspect.
Gas supplyAlthough I can understand why Mrs P has concerns here, our service doesnt have the 
power to impose a specific deadline to NHBC to complete works or to make payment. 
However, I will remind NHBC of its responsibility here and the need to make safe the 
property regarding this aspect. Should Mrs P be unhappy with the action NHBC takes, its 
again possible our service may be able to consider a future complaint regarding this aspect. 
And its possible a further compensation award could be considered if we do. 
Damaged roof mortar
Ive set out in my provisional decision why Im satisfied this item doesnt meet the minimum 
claim value. So, I dont think NHBC have acted unreasonably here.
Compensation
The compensation relates to the issues Ive set out in my provisional decision. It isnt a 
reflection of how a customer has been treated through the life of their relationship with a 
business.
Mrs P has referenced issues with the insulation she feels should be considered in any award 
I make. But I wish to point out Ive not made a finding on whether the insulation was 
insufficient. Ive pointed out NHBC is obligated to provide a lasting and effective repair under 
the policy. And it needs to respond to this and re-examine it. 
As it has failed to respond this previously, Ive set out why this formed part of my 
consideration for compensation to be paid by NHBC to Mrs P.
Mrs P does have my natural sympathy, as Ive said, but for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I think the compensation Ive set out is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And so, I make no further award.
Putting things right
I direct National House-Building Council to:
Re-examine the claim for the insulation to ensure a lasting and effective repair has
been carried out for the items previously considered in Mrs Ps claim.
Reimburse Mrs P the costs incurred for the Gas Engineer inspection.
NHBC should add 8% simple interest to this cost, from date of invoice to the date it 
makes settlement to Mrs P.
Rectify the issues with the un-sleeved Gas Pipe.
Pay Mrs P a total of £450 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
To put things right I direct National House-Building Council to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 Michael Baronti
Ombudsman