DRN-1351195
 
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy as she thinks Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFCL) trading as 
Very has adversely affected her credit history by closing her account and setting up a new 
account for her.
What happened
In April 2019, SDFCL blocked Miss Gs account as they had seen unusual activity on her 
account, when her address was changed. And later, to prevent any further fraudulent activity 
on her account, SDFCL closed Miss Gs existing account. As Miss G had a buy now pay 
later (BNPL) balance and a credit limit of £1,000, SDFCL opened a new account for Miss G 
and transferred these across to it.
Miss G said when she tried to find out what had happened, she couldnt get an answer, and 
couldnt log onto her account. This caused her trouble and upset as she didnt know what 
was happening with her account. She also said the opening of a new account had affected 
her credit history and her ability to get a mortgage. She is also unhappy with the time SDFCL 
took to close her new account, after she paid the balance in full.
SDFCL said their agents hadnt been able to deal with Miss Gs query as her account was 
being looked after by their specialist team, who werent available when she called. But 
accepted one of their agents had been abrupt and unsympathetic. They also said theyd 
removed any adverse information from her credit file. SDFCL paid £15 to Miss G for the poor 
customer service she'd had. 
Miss G wasnt happy with SDFCLs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said SDFCL had taken necessary steps to safeguard Miss Gs account. And 
SDFCL had a responsibility to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
But asked SDFCL to pay a further £85 in recognition of the trouble and upset that had been 
caused to her.
Miss G didnt agree. She said shed been told only her account number would change  not 
that her account would be closed, and a new account opened. And repeated that the 
opening of the new account had impacted her credit history. She asked for an ombudsman 
to decide.
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so,  Im partially upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.Being the potential victim of fraud must have been a very worrying time for Miss G. And its 
good to see that the security tools used by SDFCL identified her account was at risk. And 
that they took steps to safeguard her account. 
The crux of Miss Gs complaint isnt about the actions taken by SDFCL but the impact this 
has had on her and her credit history. 
I can understand Miss Gs frustration, because other lenders may rely on that information 
when making credit decisions. So, its important that credit files are an accurate record of a 
person's financial history. And the number of accounts a person has and how long theyve 
had them is a consideration that lenders may look at. But while thats possible I cant know 
what weight would have been attached to an account being closed and a new account being 
opened with the same business. This would be dependent on each lenders criterion.
 Miss G believes this has stopped her getting a mortgage. But Ive not seen any evidence to 
support this view. SDFCL has a responsibility to provide an accurate record to the credit 
reference agencies. And Im satisfied the information they gave was a true reflection of Miss 
Gs account(s) with them. I cant say what impact, if any, this had as Miss G hasnt yet 
applied or been declined for a mortgage. So, I cant say SDFCL has done anything wrong.
But in their response to Miss G, SDFCL did say they would remove any adverse information 
held on her credit file. But later said the opening of the new account wouldnt cause any 
detriment to Miss Gs credit file. As I said above it would be for a potential lender to consider 
the information, so I cant say whether it would or wouldnt. But I think the reference to the 
removal of adverse information would have caused Miss G some concern.
I can also see there was some delay caused when Miss G tried to find out what had 
happened to her account. While I understand she needed to speak to the specialist 
department, the delay in finding out what was happening must have been worrying.
 Putting things right
SDFCL had accepted their customer service had been poor and has paid £15 to 
compensate Miss G for this. Taking the above into account and the difficulties Miss G has 
said she had when trying to close her account. I agree with our investigator that a further £85 
is more reflective of the trouble and upset that Miss G has experienced.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to pay a 
further  £85 to Miss G for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman