DRN-3409789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out a Campbell Irvine Direct annual travel insurance 
policy through a broker. The policy was underwritten by AWP. In January 2020, Mr and Mrs 
W booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call H. They were due to travel between 4 and 15 
August 2020. The main purpose of their trip was to attend a festival.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. The festival in H was 
cancelled and Hs government also imposed some travel restrictions on foreign nationals 
arriving into the country. On 4 July 2020, the UK government introduced travel corridors. 
This was a list of countries which were exempt from the FCDO advice against all but 
essential travel. H was included on this list.
Mr and Mrs W believed that the FCDO was still advising against all but essential travel 
abroad at the time they were due to travel and that Hs government would require them to 
self-isolate for 14 days on arrival. So they decided not to travel as planned and made a claim 
for the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip.
AWP turned down the claim. It said the circumstances simply werent covered by the policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They noted that the policy specifically excluded cover if a policyholder travelled 
against FCDO advice (the FCDO exclusion). So they said they wouldnt have been covered 
if theyd decided to travel as planned and they werent covered for cancellation either.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He accepted that 
the policy terms excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. But he 
stated that at time Mr and Mrs W had been due to travel, H had been exempt from the 
FCDO advice against all but essential travel. On this basis, he didnt think the FCDO 
exclusion wouldve applied to Mr and Mrs Ws trip. And he also noted that Hs government 
didnt require incoming non-nationals to self-isolate if they could provide evidence of two 
negative Covid-19 tests. Overall, he didnt think AWP had acted unfairly when it concluded 
that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. They felt 
the point of insurance was to protect against the unexpected and that AWP was relying on 
small print to turn down their claim. They considered the FCDO website relating to H at the 
relevant time had suggested that there was still advice against all but essential travel to that 
destination. The festival theyd been due to attend had been cancelled and so their holiday 
had effectively been cancelled. And given media reporting regarding Covid-19 at that time 
and the FCDO advice, any reasonable person wouldve considered their trip to be non-
essential and wouldve cancelled it. They also had some concerns about the information 
theyd been given when they took out the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this decision 
will only consider AWPs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I havent looked into Mr 
and Mrs Ws concerns about the information they were given during the sales process. 
Thats because AWP didnt sell Mr and Mrs Ws policy to them and so it isnt responsible for 
anything that happened at the point of sale. As the investigator explained, if Mr and Mrs W 
feel they were misled as to the cancellation cover the policy provided, theyd need to make a 
complaint to the broker which sold them the policy before we can potentially look into that 
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think it was fair for AWP to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP treated 
them fairly. 
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was 
purchased in December 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
AWPs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says that AWP will pay for a policyholders unused, pre-paid 
cancellation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured 
events. The Cancellation or curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, set out on page 
18, says AWP will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1.  The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2.  The death, serious injury or illness of,
a.  a close relative, or
b.  the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c.  a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which 
necessitates the presence of the person concerned.3.  Hijack.
4.  Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5.  Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of 
an emergency service requires your presence.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. 
Accordingly, this means their claim isnt covered by the Cancellation section of the contract.
Mr and Mrs W correctly pointed out that their policy wouldnt have provided cover if theyd 
travelled against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think 
an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy 
provisions relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against 
FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim 
outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct AWP to do so here for 
reasons Ill go on to explore.
First, like our investigator, Ive looked at the FCDO advice which applied to H at the time Mr 
and Mrs W were due to travel. As Ive set out above, on 4 July 2020, the UK government 
introduced travel corridors between the UK and listed countries. Countries which were 
included in the travel corridor were exempt from the FCDO advice against all but essential 
travel abroad. H was part of the travel corridor and was therefore included in the exemption 
list. This means then there was no FCDO advice against all but essential travel to H on 4 
August 2020. While I understand Mr and Mrs W believed the FCDO website continued to 
advise against all but essential travel to H, Im satisfied that at the relevant time, H was 
exempt from that advice. This means that the FCDO exclusion wouldnt have applied to Mr 
and Mrs Ws situation and that their policy most likely wouldve provided cover had they 
travelled as planned.
Secondly, its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim. But in addition to the FCDO advice which they thought applied, theyve also told us 
that their holiday had effectively been cancelled when the festival was cancelled. And Mr and 
Mrs W have referred to entry restrictions in H which they considered had been relevant. 
Theyve told us too that media coverage relating to Covid-19, combined with FCDO 
guidance, wouldve led a reasonable person to conclude that travel was non-essential. In the 
round then, I dont think AWP acted unfairly in concluding that none of these events fell 
within the scope of cancellation cover. I note also that that cancellation section of the policy 
specifically excludes a policyholders disinclination to travel. I think that AWP would be fairly 
entitled to consider holiday cancellation due to the cancellation of a festival to fall within the 
scope of this exclusion.
Ive carefully considered whether Mr and Mrs Ws claim is covered by any other policy 
provision. But I dont think it is. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W believe that theyd have been 
required to quarantine on arrival in H. However, having checked Hs entry requirements at 
the time, the need for self-isolation wouldve been negated had Mr and Mrs W provided the 
authorities with evidence of two negative Covid-19 tests. So I cant fairly find theyd have 
been required to self-isolate either. Id that even if Mr and Mrs W had been required to self-
isolate in H, I dont think this would have met the requirements for a valid claim under the 
cancellation section of the policy anyway.Overall, I do have sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ws position and I can understand why they 
didnt wish to travel. But I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
direct AWP to pay their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman