DRN-3031385
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold that PPI policy.
I know that Mrs B has complained about more than one PPI policy that Halifax sold to her. 
To be clear, this decision is about the 2001 policy only. The mortgage was redeemed in 
2002. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
The policy was sold during a face to face meeting between the parties. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide what most likely happened, Ive looked 
at what Mrs B recalls. And Ive also considered the documentary and electronic evidence 
thats available from the time. 
 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take 
out the PPI if she didnt want it.  Ive had the benefit of seeing Mrs Bs mortgage application 
form, which she completed on 15 January 2001. At that stage, she indicated she didnt want 
a PPI policy. And I can see that the Halifax representative signed the application to say she 
supported it as it stood. 
On 5 February 2001, Mrs B completed an application for PPI. So as her supported mortgage 
application had already been submitted, I think she would have known PPI was a separate 
financial product that she didnt have to take out if she didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale because it was sold in a Halifax branch. That means 
Halifax had to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs B. To help me decide whether the 
policy was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also 
thought about what we know about Mrs Bs circumstances at the point of sale. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Mrs Bs mortgage repayments 
would have been covered for up to 24 months if she was off sick or if she was made 
redundant. 
In the PPI questionnaire to this service, Mrs B provided details of her circumstances in 2008 
 some seven years after the cover was sold. Our adjudicator made enquiries as to her 
circumstances in 2001, but no substantive response was received. However, I note that Mrs 
B had provided full information about 2001 to Halifax when her initial complaint was made. 
And I also have the benefit of her application forms. From that, I am satisfied I have sufficient 
to establish what her personal circumstances most likely were in 2001. 
I can see Mrs B had worked in the same role for seven years in 2001. And she told Halifax 
she would have had six months full pay from her employer. So, it follows that the PPI would 
have lasted for considerably longer than her full pay. Mrs B said she would have been 
entitled to a redundancy payment of 12 months full pay from her employer. That would have 
been extraordinarily generous package, and I think it is unlikely. But even if it were not, the 
PPI cover would have still lasted for longer than 12 months redundancy pay. 
Mrs B told Halifax she didnt have any other means with which to meet her repayments if she 
was out of work. I can see from her mortgage application form that she did have some 
savings. However, she also said she planned to repay some consumer credit debts upon 
completion. It is not clear whether she would still have had her savings when the mortgage 
started. But if she did, with a PPI policy, she could have kept those savings intact at what 
would have no doubt been a difficult time for her if she wasnt working. I must stress that this 
borrowing was secured on Mrs Bs home, which could have been at risk if she fell behind 
with her repayments. 
Ive also considered whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations meant the policy 
was unsuitable for Mrs B. I am aware that in 1998, she had a surgical procedure to remove a 
benign cyst. The evidence before me doesnt suggest that Mrs B had any ongoing difficulties 
arising from this procedure. I note she told Halifax that she hadnt consulted her doctor for 
anything serious in the 12 months before the application. Im satisfied she was in good 
health at the point of sale in 2001. And so I dont think any of the exclusions around medical 
conditions meant the PPI was unsuitable for her. 
I havent seen anything else that was unusual about Mrs Bs circumstances that would have 
made it more difficult to make a successful claim. So all in all, I think the policy Halifax 
recommended probably was suitable for Mrs Bs needs. Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs B enough information about the cover so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive 
found that she chose to take the policy out, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. As 
Ive set out above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B, nor too dissimilar to 
what its most likely she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
most likely given. I havent seen anything to suggest it wasnt affordable. So it seems like it 
could have been helpful for Mrs B if something went wrong with her job. Because of this I 
dont think Mrs B would have declined the cover had Halifax given her more or better 
information about the cover. 
Those representing Mrs B made a number of submissions about the policys additional 
limitations on back and mental health conditions. I accept there were some additional 
evidential requirements if Mrs B wanted to claim for either of those things. But I think its 
unlikely she would have thought she could have claimed without providing medical evidence 
in support. In light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have still 
thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Mrs Bs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman