DRN-2650063
The complaint
Mr K complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) hasnt honoured a 
dispute he raised about a purchase made on his credit card. Mr K has been represented in 
his complaint by Mrs K. Where I refer to actions taken, or things said, by Mr K, then this 
should be taken to include things said or done by Mrs K also.
What happened
Mr K used his Virgin credit card to pay for accommodation in two apartments on a family 
holiday to Poland in June 2019. The accommodation was booked by Mrs K through a well-
known holiday website I will call B, and cost a total of £661.67.
On arrival, Mr Ks family were very disappointed with the accommodation. It did not appear 
to be as described and was missing many features advertised on Bs website. There was no 
balcony. There was a lack of basic items such as toilet paper and cutlery. There was no 
washing machine in one of the apartments, which was also smaller than advertised. There 
was no view of the city. To make matters worse, there were noisy building works going on in 
an adjacent courtyard, and a shower flooded due to a blocked filter.
Mr K complained to the apartment hosts and B repeatedly but did not receive much in the 
way of assistance. His family ended up having to stay in the unsatisfactory apartments for 
the whole holiday. An offer of a partial refund was apparently made but this didnt 
materialise. In any event, this was not acceptable to Mr K as he was seeking a full refund.
In July 2019 Mr K disputed the payment for the accommodation with Virgin, which said it 
would look into the matter. Virgin originally considered whether it could carry out a 
chargeback against the transaction, but said that it couldnt help because Mr Ks family had 
stayed at the apartments for the duration. After some prompting from Mr K it then considered 
whether he had a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It 
concluded that he did not, because he had made the purchase through a third party, but 
credited £60 compensation to Mr Ks account due to errors it had made which had delayed it 
looking into the section 75 claim.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr K referred the matter to this service for an independent 
assessment. The view of our investigators was that Virgin had not been wrong to decline to 
attempt a chargeback, or reject the section 75 claim. They agreed the customer service 
Virgin had provided had been poor, but noted it had already provided compensation for this.
Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and so it has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear enough that Mr Ks family holiday was significantly affected by the problems with 
the accommodation. Instead of enjoying their holiday Mr Ks family ended up being 
preoccupied with the issues with the apartments. It does seem likely to me that at least one 
of the apartments they were given was not the one they had paid for, so I can quite 
understand why they feel aggrieved.
However, Im deciding a complaint about Virgin, not about the apartment hosts or B. 
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their credit card company, 
and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for them to 
provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can help. If a credit 
card has been used, as in this case, Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal right to claim 
against the credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or misrepresentations, so 
long as certain technical criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can also use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card only, in certain limited scenarios. This process is generally known as 
a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer attempts a 
chargeback, and there is no guarantee that a chargeback will be successful, I would expect 
the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable prospect of the process succeeding.
The Section 75 claim
Virgin, and our investigators, concluded one of the necessary technical conditions hadnt 
been met for Mr K to be able to make a section 75 claim. This condition is the need for there 
to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement.
The easiest way to explain this is by saying that when someone makes a payment on their 
credit card, in order to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need 
to have used the credit card to pay the same entity they have a claim against for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
Mr K paid B using his credit card, so in order to be able to bring a claim against Virgin, B 
would need to be responsible for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract by the 
apartment hosts (who I will call H from this point on). Holiday websites have different sets 
of terms and conditions which apply to booking accommodation and other holiday services 
through them. So its important, when thinking about whether theres a valid DCS 
agreement, to consider carefully those terms. Ive retrieved and analysed a copy of Bs terms 
and conditions which are likely to have applied at the same time Mr K made his booking.
B describes itself in its terms and conditions as providing a Trip Service, and says that it is: 
an online platform through which Trip Providerscan advertise, market, sell, promote 
and/or offertheir products and service for order, purchase, reservation, hire and through 
which relevant visitors of the Platform can discover, search, compare, and make an order, 
reservation, purchase or payment.
The Trip Service is defined as:
the online purchase, order, (facilitated) payment, or reservation service as offered or 
enabled by B in respect to the various products and services as from time to time made 
available by Trip Providers on the Platform.
The terms and conditions go on to explain that when a person makes a booking via B, they 
are entering into a contract with the supplier of the travel service (H in Mr Ks case) for the provision of that service. B says it acts only as an intermediary. Furthermore, the terms say 
that the information provided on any accommodation page is provided directly by, and is the 
responsibility of, the suppliers of the accommodation. B does say that it will use reasonable 
care and skill in operating its Trip Service, but it also says that it does not charge 
consumers for this service (it is instead paid for by the travel suppliers who advertise on the 
platform).
The conclusions I have to draw from Bs terms, to which Mr K would have needed to agree 
when making the booking, is that B was not contractually responsible for either the incorrect 
information given about the apartments on the website, the apparent mix-up by H in putting 
part of his family in the wrong apartment, or the other failings of H in supplying the 
accommodation. 
From the communications Ive seen, B attempted to assist Mr K by acting as an intermediary 
between him and H when things went wrong. It doesnt seem to have done a very good job 
of this, but its terms dont commit it to much in the event of problems with accommodation, 
and as Mr K didnt pay anything for this service anyway its difficult to see what kind of claim 
he might have against B.
Im not without sympathy for Mr Ks situation, but I dont think the technical conditions for him 
to be able to make a claim against Virgin under section 75 are in place, because he paid B 
but his claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract is against H.
Chargeback
As I mentioned above, a chargeback is not guaranteed to succeed. If a chargeback is 
attempted it can still be defended by the other side to the dispute, and ultimately such 
disputes can be progressed to a stage known as arbitration, where the card scheme 
(MasterCard in this case) would make a final ruling. We dont have any influence over these 
rulings.
I dont agree with Virgins assertion that because Mr Ks family stayed in the apartments for 
the duration of the booking, this means a chargeback would not be possible. This isnt what 
the card scheme rules say. It might make a chargeback more difficult however, as there 
could be a dispute over what would constitute an appropriate refund. Im doubtful that a 
chargeback would have been successful for the full refund Mr K wanted, as he and his family 
did use the facilities.
However, one of our investigators noted another problem, which is that Bs terms and 
conditions disclaim liability for the services provided by trip providers using their platform. 
Although I cant be certain of how MasterCard would rule in such a situation, I agree with our 
investigator that this would likely cause a problem. I think B would have defended a 
chargeback and pointed to their terms and conditions which say they arent responsible for 
the services of H. This, combined with the difficulty of pursuing a full refund, leads me to the 
conclusion that a chargeback would not have had a reasonable prospect of succeeding. I 
therefore dont think Virgin acted unfairly in failing to attempt one.
Customer Service
Virgins customer service when dealing with Mr Ks dispute could have been much better. 
I say this because there were some delays in them passing Mr Ks documents to their 
section 75 team, which then took rather a long time to look into the matter. Virgin paid £60 
compensation for this delay. I think this is on the small side, but its within a range of values 
Id consider reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont award further compensation on top of it.
My final decision
I appreciate my findings will be disappointing for Mr K and that he may feel hes fallen 
through the cracks in the measures in place to protect consumers. However, as Ive already 
said, I am deciding a complaint about Virgin Money and, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think they have treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman