DRN-4060038
The complaint
Mr B complains about arrears correspondence he received, and the information recorded on 
his credit file in relation to a car that was supplied through a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from VWFS. The 
car was about seven months old and had travelled 3,600 miles when it was supplied to Mr B. 
The cash price of the car was £22,970. Mr B paid a deposit of £2,576 which meant the total 
amount financed on the agreement was £20,394 payable over 48 monthly repayments of 
£512.40
In August 2022, Mr B cancelled his direct debit towards the repayment of his finance 
agreement with VWFS. Mr B said hed stopped making payments because a decision was 
reached in June 2022, by the Motor Ombudsman, following a complaint that was raised to 
them about the dealership relating to the quality of his vehicle. The decision concluded that 
the dealership should arrange the rejection of Mr Bs car as there was insufficient evidence 
to support it being of satisfactory quality.
Mr B said as VWFS didnt cancel his payments in June 2022, he decided to keep the car as 
compensation and cancel his repayments. 
Due to the missed payments on the agreement, VWFS issued arrears correspondence and 
a default letter to Mr B.
In November 2022 Mr B complained to VWFS about the arrears. Mr B said he didnt think 
VWFS should be chasing him for payment of the arrears and he wasnt happy with the 
impact this was having on his credit file.
VWFS issued their final response to Mr Bs complaint, which they upheld in part. VWFS said 
Mr B was still liable for the missed payments and so they were right to issue arrears 
correspondence and to have it recorded on his credit file. However, they accepted that they 
didnt provide Mr B with a call back which they apologised for.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr B brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr B 
said in addition to keeping the car he should receive £150,000 in settlement of his complaint.  
Having reviewed all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that as the agreement was still live, and no 
arrangements had been made by VWFS to cease the repayments, they were acting fairly by 
issuing arrears correspondence and recording the missed payments on Mr Bs credit file.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation. However, Mr B didnt. He said that the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 meant that VWFS were responsible for the quality of his car and 
so he was exercising his legal rights. As our investigators view remained unchanged Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that where the subject matter of a complaint 
has already been dealt with by a comparable resolution scheme, it would seriously impair 
the effective operation of our service if we were to consider its merits.
Here, Mr B is complaining about arrears correspondence issued to him and the information 
that VWFS has recorded on his credit file. As such, Ive not considered Mr Bs complaint 
about the quality of his car. This is because the motor ombudsman has already made a 
finding on this, and as per the FCA guidance, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to do so.
In an email to our investigator dated 4 April 2023, Mr B said he acknowledged that we 
werent able to make a finding on the quality of his car, however he explained that he 
believed VWFS failed in their obligations under the CRA, by continuing to take monthly 
payments despite the outcome from the motor ombudsman, by not responding to his contact 
and by pursuing arrears payments which then impacted his credit file.
So, to decide if VWFS have acted fairly in the circumstances, Ive considered three key 
issues in relation to this complaint:
Were VWFS acting fairly by continuing to take the monthly repayments?
Were VWFS acting fairly by issuing arrears correspondence? and
Were VWFS acting fairly by recording arrears information on Mr Bs credit file
In his complaint to us, Mr B has referred to the consumer rights act 2015. The CRA is 
relevant in cases relating to the quality of goods and is legislation that the motor ombudsman 
would have considered when making their finding. However, as my decision does not focus 
on the quality of the goods Mr B acquired, Ive not referenced the CRA in relation to the 
complaint points that Ive noted above. 
Monthly repayments
VWFS provided us with a statement of Mr Bs agreement. The statement shows that from 
September 2022 the repayments on the agreement were rejected. In an email from Mr B to 
VWFS in September 2022, Mr B confirmed that hed cancelled his monthly payments for the 
agreement; and in an earlier email to VWFS in August 2022 Mr B advised that his intention was to cancel his monthly repayments. I havent seen any agreement or arrangement that 
was put in place where VWFS gave their consent for Mr B to cancel his repayments. So, I 
think its likely Mr B felt it was fair for him to cancel the repayments in the circumstances.
Mr B explained that despite the car being found as of unsatisfactory quality, VWFS 
continued to take out the monthly repayments. Mr B referred to the findings as set out in the 
motor ombudsmans decision. However, the motor ombudsmans decision was in relation to 
a complaint Mr B raised against the dealership. VWFS pointed out in their final response that 
the dealership is a separate legal entity to them, and that Mr B should contact them in 
relation to the case raised with the motor ombudsman. Having seen a copy of the motor 
ombudsmans decision, I can see that it relates to Mr B and the dealership, and not VWFS. 
Section 2 of Mr Bs hire purchase agreement says:
You agree to make the Advanced Payment and Repayments on the dates specified on 
page 1 of the agreement and/or notified to you under clauses 2.2 and 2.3, and to pay us any 
other sums which fall due. The timing of all these payments, and your compliance with other 
terms, is of the essence of this agreement
Having considered the terms of the agreement, and that Ive not been made aware of any 
variance or amendment to it, I think its fair that VWFS expected the monthly repayments to 
be made whilst the agreement was still active. And considering Mr B entered into the 
agreement and was likely to have been given a copy of the agreement, I also think its 
reasonable that Mr B would be aware of his responsibility to maintain the monthly 
repayments. 
I recognise Mr B feels strongly that it was his right under the CRA to stop making the 
repayments. However, as no agreement had been put in place by VWFS for this, I dont 
think VWFS were acting unfairly by continuing to call for the repayments.
Arrears correspondence and credit file
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) requires a lender to give borrowers notice of sums in 
arrears where there are at least two missed payments under the agreement. VWFS advised 
in their final response that they issued arrears correspondence to Mr B in October 2022, 
advising that the agreement was in arrears by two payments. Under the CCA, I think VWFS 
were acting fairly here.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, says If you fall into arrears on 
your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be 
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down
It also says: Lenders that supply data to the credit reference agencies are required to 
ensure that the data is accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards
In consideration of the CCA and ICO, Im satisfied that VWFS acted fairly when they issued 
arrears correspondence to Mr B. Im also satisfied that it would be fair for VWFS to have 
recorded on Mr Bs credit file an accurate reflection of his payment arrears in relation to the 
hire purchase agreement.My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman