DRN-3162383
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt uphold a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr L made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr L says that the garage who serviced his car must have loosened a spark plug and that 
this caused the spark plug to come adrift. He wants Tesco to refund the repair costs he 
incurred.
If the business who serviced Mr Ls car had failed to retighten a spark plug, or loosened one, 
I would think they hadnt carried out work with sufficient care and had breached the contract 
they had with Mr L.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence here to suggest that was the case. I say that 
because the service that was completed didnt require the garage to remove the spark plugs 
and theres been no independent evidence provided to suggest the subsequent breakdown 
was as a result of an error they had made.
Mr L is understandably frustrated that his car was working fine before the service and that he 
started to notice things going wrong shortly afterwards. I can see hes made various 
suggestions as to why the spark plugs may have been interfered with. Hes suggested, for 
instance, that the business would have inspected the car to see if other work was required. 
Hes also explained that the spark plugs were in an area close to the air filter which was 
removed in the service and that the spark plugs could therefore have been interfered with. 
But whilst I understand Mr Ls observations I dont think, on balance, that there has been 
sufficient evidence provided to suggest the servicing garage has caused the problems Mr L 
subsequently experienced.
Im therefore not persuaded that Tesco were unreasonable when they rejected Mr Ls 
section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman