DRN-3615461
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) declined her travel insurance claim and about its service. My references to 
Mapfre include its agents.
Mrs H is represented by her father in her claim to Mapfre and her complaint to us.
.What happened
On 30 December 2019 Mrs H bought an annual travel insurance policy, Mapfre was the 
insurer. In December 2019 she booked a trip with her sons to a European country from 6 to 
15 July 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be 
a pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
(formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. On 23 March 2020 the UK government imposed various restrictions on travel and 
movement domestically and internationally, commonly referred to as lockdown. 
The airline cancelled Mrs Hs flights. And on 29 May 2020 Mrs H cancelled the trip 
accommodation due to the British Government restrictions on travel abroad. Mrs H accepted 
a voucher as a refund from the airline. On or about 15 June 2020 she claimed for her lost 
hotel and ferry costs on the policy.
On 4 July 2020 the FCDO placed some countries, including Mrs Hs planned destination, on 
a travel corridor list. The countries on this list were exempt from the FCDO advice against 
all but essential travel. 
Mapfre declined the claim. It said there was no cover for the cancellation as there was no  
FCDO advice against non-essential travel to the relevant country on 6 July 2020 when Mrs H 
had been due to travel.
Mrs H complained to Mapfre about its claim decision and how it handled her claim. Mapfre 
accepted it had unnecessarily delayed in deciding the claim as it had asked for information 
Mrs H had already provided. It offered Mrs H £100 compensation to apologise for her  
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service but it still declined the claim. 
Mrs H complained to us. She said her claim was payable under the cancellation and/or 
abandoning your trip sections of the policy. She thought the £100 compensation Mapfre 
offered wasnt enough. 
Ultimately our investigator said Mapfre had unfairly declined the claim. She recommended 
Mapfre pay the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest. 
She said Mapfres offer of £100 compensation for Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience was 
reasonable.
Mapfre disagreed about the claim and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy 
terms stated FCDO advice not to travel had to be in place on the date of departure of the 
trip. Due to the pandemic it had changed its position to cover a claim if the FCDO advice 
was in place 48 hours before a trip was due to start but Mrs H had cancelled her 
accommodation weeks before she was due to start the trip.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I think Mapfre didnt handle the claim promptly, 
but its offer of compensation was fair. I think Mapfre unreasonably declined the claim. Ill 
explain why.
The policy says under the cancelling and cutting short your holiday section that for specified 
insured events which the policy lists Mapfre will cover: 
travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling
One of the insured events the policy lists is:
You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice for your destination/location changing to as a 
minimum 'all but essential travel' after the purchase of your policy or after the booking 
of any individual trip, whichever is the latter 
I accept that on the date Mrs H had been due to travel the FCDO advice against all but 
essential travel to the relevant country was no longer in place, the advice had been changed 
two days before. But even if I thought Mapfre could reasonably say the wording of the  
above policy term meant the FDCO advice had to be in place on the planned departure date 
for the claim to be covered under the strict policy terms I also have to consider whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this claim.
Mrs H hasnt been able to provide evidence of the date the airline cancelled her outward 
flight from the UK. But her claim form, sent on or about 15 June 2020, said the airline had 
already given her a voucher for the cancelled flight so Im satisfied the airline had already 
cancelled that flight. There is evidence that on 30 June 2020 the airline cancelled what 
would have been the return flight of 15 July 2020. 
The airline doesnt say why it cancelled the flights but Im satisfied that its more likely than 
not the cancellation was due to the FDCO advice against non-essential travel which was in 
place when both flights were cancelled. Mrs H cancelled her accommodation on 29 May 
2020, when the FCDO against non-essential travel was in place. Her claim form say the 
reason for the cancellation was the FCDO advice.
It wasnt unreasonable for Mrs H to have cancelled her accommodation in May 2020. She 
couldnt have known then, or on 15 June 2020 when she submitted the claim, that the FCDO 
advice about travel to her planned destination was going to change. At the time her flight and 
accommodation were cancelled the FCDO advice against non-essential travel to the relevant 
country was in place and I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for this claim to fall within the cover of an insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. That 
means I dont need to consider and make a finding on whether or not the claim was covered 
by the abandoning your trip section of the policy, as Mrs H suggests.
I think the evidence Ms H provided to Mapfre shows she reasonably tried, but was unable, to 
obtain refunds from the hotel providers so I think those costs are non-recoverable. I havent 
seen any evidence that Mrs H tried to obtain a refund from the ferry provider. But I accept 
her point that the ferry was still running within the relevant country at the time so the provider 
was unlikely to provide a refund. Im satisfied that its more likely than not the ferry costs are 
also non-recoverable.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Mapfre to pay Mrs Hs claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest as Ive detailed below. 
Mapfre gave Mrs H poor service. She made her claim in June 2020 and Mapfre didnt tell her 
it had declined the claim until January 2021, seven months later. On several occasions 
Mapfre asked Mrs H to provide documents she had already provided. Mapfre accepts its 
service was poor. Mrs H and her representative were very frustrated by how Mapfre handled 
the claim but I think the £100 compensation it offered for Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience 
was a reasonable amount. If Mapfre hadnt offered that amount I wouldnt have awarded 
more.
Putting things right
Mapfre must pay Mrs Hs claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus 
interest as Ive detailed below. It must also pay £100 compensation, which its already 
offered, for Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to pay:
Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions plus interest* at 
8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
£100 compensation to Mrs H for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor 
service, which its already offered.
*If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it 
should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman