DRN-3724480
The complaint
Mr M says IG Index Limited (IG) arbitrarily suspended his trading account and withheld 
trading profits he had earned. He seeks recovery of those trading profits.
What happened
Mr M opened his IG account in April 2021 and IGs actions were taken in June 2021. By 
then, his trading had made almost £24,000 in profit. IG withheld that profit, but allowed 
access to his initial capital deposit. He complained in July 2021.
IG did not give a reason for its actions at the time of the event. However, thereafter and in 
response to Mr Ms complaint, it said his trading conduct had been identified as being in 
breach of the terms and conditions for the account, and that such breach gave rise to its 
right to take the steps it took. 
Mr M says he remains without a full explanation from IG as to how exactly his trading 
breached the terms and conditions for the account, and without evidence of the alleged 
breach.
IGs complaint response (in August 2021) said it had evidence to suggest trading in the 
account had been conducted in bad faith; to suggest that Mr M had been taking advantage 
of IGs pricing method for its Over-The-Counter (OTC) markets; that such conduct was in 
breach of its Customer Agreement (CA) provisions requiring trading in good faith, without 
the use of any strategy or arbitrage practices aimed at taking advantage of its pricing 
methods, without the use of any strategy or practice that eliminates downside market risks, 
without the use of any strategy that manipulates its service and without the use of any 
automated or algorithm based strategy; that, upon reasonable suspicion of any such breach, 
the CA provided for the voiding of trades at its discretion; so that is what it did in his case, his 
invalid profitable trades were treated as null and void and his account was put back to the 
position it would have been in without those trades.
IG also confirmed that Mr Ms account will be closed permanently.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was looked into by one of our investigators. 
She concluded that it should not be upheld. Overall, she was satisfied that IG had acted in 
line with the provisions of the CA in terms of its consideration of his trades and in the steps it 
took. 
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and considered parts of the investigators findings to be 
conflicting. He restated his core arguments and asked the investigator to share the evidence 
she had considered in the case. In his view, IG had deprived him of his legitimate profits, it 
was/is hiding behind the CA to do so, he was/is being denied his basic entitlement to 
information on the allegation against him (and evidence of it) and it is implausible that IG 
could have valid grounds to void all his trades, especially as it allowed those trades and took 
no action until after two months.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I understand his arguments (as summarised above). They are reasonable but, for his case, 
they also somewhat misguided. In another case with circumstances in which action by a 
firm, akin to IGs action, mainly depended on presenting a misconduct allegation and then 
proving it on evidence, arguments like his could have more weight. However, unfortunately 
for him the present complaint is not quite such a case.
The starting point is the CA. After all, it is an alleged breach of the CA that led to IGs actions 
and then Mr Ms complaint. The relevant provisions set out the harm that IG sought to avoid 
and that account holders like Mr M, who agreed the CA, undertook not to commit. They are 
as I summarised in the previous section. Up to this point, I can understand why he would 
argue that the allegation against him needs to be substantiated. The provisions cover a 
range of prohibited conducts, each of which, if alleged, can prompt the sort of demand for 
conclusive evidence that Mr M has made.
However, moving to the provisions of the CA that confirm action IG is contractually entitled to 
take, the terms of that entitlement do not match what Mr M appears to have expected. IG did 
not and does not have to prove the allegations conclusively, and it did not have to explain 
reasons to him. Section 20 of the CA covers the representations and warranties he agreed, 
including the undertakings not to commit the prohibited conducts that IG has referred to. 
Section 21 (3) then says that if IG had  reasonable grounds for suspecting  [my 
emphasis] they had been committed it had absolute discretion to treat as null and void the 
relevant trades (or any others), without any obligation to inform the account holder of its 
reasons.
With regards to closure of Mr Ms account, the CA (at section 17) confirms that a material 
breach amounts to an event of default and an event of default allows IG to close an account 
(including trades within it) and to terminate the CA.
Mr M is of course aware of the trading he conducted in his account, so that information is not 
unknown to him. Indeed, he has confirmed to us that he has statements for all his trades. It 
appears that out of just over 100 trades, during the two months (roughly) period, only 10 
trades resulted in losses. In contrast with the total of almost £24,000 made in profit, a total of 
around £1,400 appears to have been incurred in losses  overall and in broad terms, a 95% 
success rate and a 5% loss rate. 
The above depicts an exceptional trading success rate in a relatively short period of time. It 
can be argued that this does not automatically mean there was misconduct in Mr Ms 
trading. However, the point to note is that it would not be uncommon for some firms in the 
sector to consider the scenario unusual, to be alerted to such trading outcomes in such 
circumstances and to suspect a form of trading breach. This is precisely what IG did. 
I need not determine conclusively whether (or not) Mr M committed any wrongdoing in his 
trading, and the same applied to IG. Contractually, it was entitled to act upon no more than a 
suspicion of wrongdoing, so that is the standard that also applies to my consideration of the 
complaint. Circumstances in which trading within two months yielded total profits in an 
account around 17 times the size of its total losses, in which the total profits was a 
somewhat sizeable amount (in contrast to the size of the total losses), and in which there were only 10 losing trades out of over 100 total trades, lent themselves to IGs suspicions. 
On balance, and for these reasons, I do not consider it was unreasonable for IG to form 
those suspicions. 
I note and understand Mr Ms points about evidence of the specific wrongdoings that have 
been alleged against him. In the context I have set out above, his points relate to a separate 
matter  one that does not necessarily feature in his case. IG only required reasonable 
grounds to form a suspicion of prohibited trading. As I explained above, on balance, such 
grounds existed in, and were presented by, Mr Ms trading activities (and outcomes). That 
was enough to trigger and justify the CA backed steps that IG took. 
I do not say or suggest that Mr M is wrong to seek sight of any precise details and evidence 
on what exactly he is alleged to have done. However, I do say that based on the CA IG was 
and is not obliged to engage in such an exercise, and that such an exercise is not necessary 
to determine whether (or not) IG legitimately voided his trades and withheld the profits from 
them. On balance and for all the reasons given above, IG did both legitimately.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman