DRN-2626468
The complaint
Mr F complains about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(RCG) and the late payment fee they applied to his account after his direct debit had been 
cancelled.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr F made two purchases using his RCG account, totalling £367.97. On 
28 December, RCG issued Mr Fs statement which stated a minimum monthly payment of 
£5 needed to be paid by 26 January 2020.
Mr F has used his RCG account previously and set up a direct debit to pay any minimum 
monthly payments. So, he assumed this direct debit would pay the £5 by the due date. But 
on 28 January, Mr F realised a direct debit hadnt been taken and called RCG to query this. 
He made a payment on this date and Mr F has said the automated system confirmed there 
was no late payment on the account. But, as this was two days after the minimum payment 
due date, Mr F was charged a late fee of £12 plus interest.
Mr F spoke to RCG in February to try and resolve this issue. Mr F felt he was given 
misleading information by the advisors he spoke to and this led to him raising a complaint. 
Mr F complained he hadnt been made aware the direct debit had been cancelled. He didnt 
think the statement he received made it clear he needed to make a manual payment or set 
up a new direct debit. So, he wanted the late payment fee and interest refunded. He also 
wanted to complain about the conduct of the third advisor he spoke to.
RCG didnt agree. They explained direct debits are closed under the dormancy period rule. 
They explained any direct debit dormant for more than 13 months is closed by the bank or 
building society. As Mr F hadnt used the direct debit since 2015, RCG explained they 
wouldnt have been able to collect a payment through this method so cancelled it. And they 
thought they were fair to do so. And as Mr F had failed to make a payment by the due date, 
they thought theyd acted fairly when applying a late fee to the account. They did agree 
some of the information they provided had been unfair when Mr F spoke to them and 
explained this would be fed back. And finally, they explained the automated system said 
there was no late payment on the account as the statement for that period hadnt yet been 
generated, so their system hadnt updated. Because of the above, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr F was unhappy with this response. He maintained his view that RCG shouldve made him 
aware there was no active direct debit outstanding and that if they had, he wouldnt have 
incurred a late payment fee. He was also upset that the third advisor he spoke to had issued 
a response to his complaint and he thought this was unfair, seeing as he wanted to complain 
about that advisor. He didnt think RCG had taken into account his disability and wanted the 
late payment fee refunded plus compensation for the upset and inconvenience hed been 
caused. As Mr F remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think RCG had 
done anything wrong when cancelling the direct debit as this followed the dormancy rules. 
And she didnt think the statement RCG sent unfairly led Mr F to believe the direct debit was 
still in place. She recognised Mr Fs disability and considered how this may have affected his 
understanding of the statement, but she didnt think this showed RCG to have discriminated 
against him. So, as the payment Mr F made was after the payment due date, she thought it 
was reasonable for them to charge a late payment fee, in line with the terms of the account. 
She also recognised some of the information Mr F provided was unclear. But she thought 
RCG admittance of this, and the actions they took to feed this back to the advisor in 
question, was a fair response. And she explained Mr Fs complaint about the third advisor 
responding to his complaint wasnt something she could consider further as complaints 
handling fell outside of our services jurisdiction. So, she didnt think RCG needed to do 
anything more.
Mr F didnt agree. He thought the dormancy rules allowed a bank to cancel a direct debit, not 
RCG. So, he didnt think they were fair to do so. He thought RCG had a duty to ensure his 
disability was considered and provide information in a way that was easy for him to 
understand. He didnt think theyd done this. And as they hadnt made him aware his direct 
debit had been cancelled, he thought theyd charged the late payment unfairly. So, he 
wanted the fees refunded, his credit file amended if necessary, and compensation. He also 
expressed his unhappiness with our inability to look at his concerns around the handling of 
his complaint. As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr F. I dont doubt Mr F 
assumed his previous direct debit was still active on his account. And I believe Mr F had 
every intention of paying the minimum payment by the due date. So, when he realised a 
payment hadnt been taken, I can understand why he wouldve been confused and the worry 
this wouldve caused. I can also appreciate Mr Fs upset when he learned hed been charged 
a late payment fee as he hadnt intentionally missed the payment. And I can understand why 
he feels RCG acted unfairly when charging this, especially when the automated system said 
no late payments were recorded on the account.
But for me to say RCG have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied theyd cancelled 
the direct debit Mr F previously held unfairly. Or that by charging a late payment fee, theyd 
failed to act in line with the terms of the account he held. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Before explaining my decision, I think it would be useful to set out what I can and cant 
consider. Mr F has raised concerns about the way RCG handled his complaint. But 
complaints handling isnt classed as a regulated activity, so any complaints about this fall 
outside of our jurisdiction. I understand Mr F isnt happy with this but Im unable to consider 
anything that falls outside of our scope. So, I wont be looking into this further. First, Ive considered RCGs decision to cancel Mr Fs direct debit and whether I think it was 
fair for them to do so. The dormancy rules regarding direct debits state banks and building 
societies hold direct debit instructions for a minimum period of 13 months after they were last 
used. After this, these details are removed from their systems. Mr F hadnt used his direct 
debit with RCG since 2015, so his direct debit instruction fell under these rules. Because of 
this, RCG cancelled the direct debit as even if it remained outstanding on their system, they 
wouldnt have been able to collect any payments from Mr Fs paying bank. So, while the 
dormancy rules apply to Mr Fs bank, I dont think RCG were unreasonable when cancelling 
the direct debit. Even if they hadnt done so, the minimum payment wouldnt have been able 
to be collected. So, I dont think RCG cancelling the direct debit affected the situation Mr F 
found himself in.
Ive then thought about whether RCG did enough to make Mr F aware there was no active 
direct debit in place when they issued his statement in December 2019. Its important to note 
RCG have a duty to make a customer aware of a new direct debit if they are intending to 
take funds using this method. But there is no obligation to make a customer aware that a 
direct debit has been cancelled. So, I dont think I can fairly say they did anything wrong by 
not telling Mr F his direct had been cancelled, whenever this took place. 
And Ive looked at the statement Mr F received closely. This statement doesnt say a 
payment is due to be collected by direct debit. It gives the minimum payment that is due, and 
when it is due by. It then provides information on ways to pay. As Mr F used his account to 
purchase items on a credit basis, I think it was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure the minimum 
payment was made by the due date set. So, I think it was Mr Fs responsibility to read the 
statement and take reasonable steps to ensure a payment method was set up. I appreciate 
he assumed the direct debit was still in place and that his disability made it more difficult for 
him to understand the information that was provided, but there was no confirmation on the 
statement explaining when a payment was due to be taken. So, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr F to contact RCG to query the previous direct debit and ensure it 
remained in place. But I cant see that Mr F did this.
When Mr F contacting RCG to pay, it was already two days after the minimum payment due 
date. I think Mr F was made reasonably aware of when the payment was required and 
shouldve been able to access his own bank account to see whether a payment had been 
taken, or was due to be taken, on or before this date. And if he did this, I think its reasonable 
to assume he wouldve been able to attempt payment on the due date. And in that situation, 
Id have expected RCG to remove any late payment fee if one was charged.
But that isnt what happened. Mr F made a payment two days late. And the terms of Mr Fs 
account with RCG explain that a late payment fee and additional interest will be charged if a 
payment isnt made by the due date set on the statement. As the late payment fee was 
charged in line with these terms, I cant say that RCG have acted unfairly. Because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more regarding the late payment and interest charges.
But I do understand Mr F was told by the automated service that no late payments were on 
the account. RCG have explained Mr Fs new statement hadnt been generated when he 
called, so the information the automated system provided referred to the previous statement 
period. Ive looked and can see Mr Fs new statement was issued after he made the late 
payment, so I think its likely this is what happened and is a reasonable explanation. And 
even if this wasnt the case, I dont think this automated message affected the fact Mr F did 
make a payment late.
And I do also think RCG couldve done to more to explain the situation Mr F found himself in. 
I dont think they were as clear as they couldve been when they explained his previous 
direct debit had been cancelled, why this happened and why a late payment fee had been charged. And I do think this caused some confusion. But RCG have accepted this and 
provided feedback to the advisor in question. But crucially, I dont think this conversation led 
Mr F to missing his payment or impacted the fact a late payment charge had been applied to 
his account fairly. Because of this, I dont think RCG need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr F Ive 
considered all of the comments hes provided as well as his disability and why he think this 
means RCG acted unfairly. But I think RCG acted fairly and provided fair and reasonable 
information that shouldve allowed Mr F to ensure a payment was made by the due date set 
on the statement. As this wasnt done, I think RCG were reasonable to apply the charges. As 
I think they were reasonable to do so, I cant fairly say they should be removed or refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman