DRN-1433121
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced his limit on his credit card 
account with little notice. He says this has had a detrimental effect on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A has said that on 26 July 2019 Barclays made the decision to reduce his credit limit from 
£13,000 to £11,000 and the limit was reduced four days later. Mr A has said he was 
operating within the terms and conditions of the account, so he was unsure when Barclays 
had taken this action. So, he asked Barclays for an explanation. But he says Barclays were 
unable to answer any of his questions and simply said it was due to a high level of borrowing 
and high cash usage. 
Mr A remained confused as he says Barclays was aware of his borrowing and the high cash 
usage as this was due to a marketing campaign advertising interest free cash advances and 
balance transfers. Therefore, he thinks its unfair that Barclays came to this decision to 
reduce the limit based on that. 
Barclays gave Mr A four days notice before it reduced his credit limit which he feels is 
unacceptable. He says it didn't give him enough time to make alternative arrangements and 
it impacted his credit file which prevented him from obtaining further credit. So, Mr A raised a 
formal complaint with Barclays. 
Barclays looked into Mr As complaint. It said it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. After completing a review of the account, it said it showed a high 
level of borrowing and high cash usage. And therefore, it said as a responsible lender it 
made the decision to reduce the credit limit. So, it wouldn't be reinstating the credit limit. It 
went on to explain that it had a legal obligation to report the balance of Mr As account each 
month to credit reference agencies. Therefore, it didn't think it had acted unreasonably. 
Mr A remained unhappy he also felt he should be compensated for the time he had spent 
trying to resolve the matter. So, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint, but she didn't recommend it be upheld. To summarise she agreed 
that Barclays had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account and fulfilled its 
obligations to report information to credit reference agencies.
Mr A didn't agree. He still felt that Barclays had acted unreasonably as they were fully aware 
of their own marketing. He said she felt the terms and conditions of the account were poorly 
drafted and couldn't be deemed reasonable. So, he asked for the case to be passed to me 
to consider. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the account state:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we 
have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice).
So, I am satisfied Barclays have the right to reduce the credit limit based on an assessment 
of risk in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate Mr A feels these 
terms and conditions are unreasonable, but before opening the account he would have had 
to agree that he had read and consented to them. With that in mind I think its reasonable to 
suggest if Mr A was unhappy with the terms and conditions, he wouldnt have proceeded to 
open the account.  
Mr T has said that its not fair that Barclays based its decision to reduce his limit due to a 
high level of borrowing and high cash usage. Because it was due to its marketing campaign 
advertising interest free cash advances and balance transfers that Mr T was in that position. 
Our service has asked Barclays and Mr A to provide evidence of the marketing campaign 
which Mr A says he received. Barclays has said it doesn'toffer interest free cash advances 
and all cash and cash like transactions incur interest even if they are paid in full. It 
couldn't see any offers on Mr As account so assumed he must have received marketing, but 
without seeing the marketing it was unable to make a comment. Our service asked Mr A to 
provide a copy of the marketing campaign he received, but he wasnt able to do this. I have 
considered the evidence Mr A did send us (his statements following him receiving the 
advertisement) And, while I dont dispute Mr As version of events, without looking at the 
promotional offer he received I am unable to establish the terms of it. But nevertheless, 
assuming what Mr A has said is correct and Barclays did offer this, it is still entitled to carry 
out a review of his account. And if it is deemed that Mr As activity caused a high rise, they 
still reserve the right to lower the credit limit.  So again, I cant say Barclays acted 
unreasonably by doing this.
I appreciate Mr As biggest concern is the fact Barclays didn't give him enough notice before 
it reduced the limit. Mr A feels this all could have been prevented if it had given him notice. 
And I empathise with Mr As position. But again, the terms do make it clear that Barclays 
dont have to give prior notice. And I can see in this case they did give Mr A notice so I cant 
reasonably say Barclays acted unfairly in regards to this.
I have also considered the impact this has had on Mr A. He says this affected his credit 
rating and as a result he was refused credit. I have asked Mr A to provide evidence to 
demonstrate the lender refused to grant Mr A credit based on Barclays decision to reduce 
his limit. Unfortunately, Mr A hasnt provided that information. So while I appreciate that it 
could have impacted Mr As ability to obtain credit, I cant say this was the sole reason. In 
any event Barclays has an obligation to ensure if provides credit reference agencies with 
accurate information. So it hasnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr A has said he want compensation for the trouble and upset he has experienced trying to 
resolve the matter. Our investigator has asked Mr A to evidence what trouble and upset he 
experienced. And while I accept that it would have come as a shock to Mr A that Barclays 
was reducing his limit, it was outlined in the terms and conditions it could do this. And 
Barclays gave him notice. In any kind of financial dispute, it is reasonable to assume a little 
inconvenience will be caused trying to resolve the issue. But in this case, Im not satisfied 
that Mr A has experienced a level of trouble and upset that warrants financial compensation. So with this in mind, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman