DRN-2136010
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms T made a claim against her home insurance policy provided by 
Fairmead. After a period of heavy rain she had water enter her property through a damaged 
roof. This caused damage to the inside of her property.
Ms T has complained that Fairmead processed her claim as storm damage and declined it 
because there werent storm conditions on the day the water came in. She believes a roof 
tile was damaged by her son causing a slow leak. The damaged roof tile then failed in heavy 
rain conditions, so Ms T thinks it shouldve been dealt with as an accidental damage claim.
Our investigator said that Ms T had accidental damage cover on her policy, and damage to 
the roof caused by her son wouldnt be excluded under this clause. He also said that the loss 
adjusters report said the damage wasnt caused by a storm, so he thought this went some 
way to supporting a claim for accidental damage. Additionally, he said that Fairmead never 
asked Ms T what caused the damage or for her version of events.
Because of this, he didnt think it was fair that Fairmead shouldve discounted accidental 
damage. And he thought they should reassess the claim in line with the accidental damage 
cover Ms T had.
Fairmead didnt agree with the investigator. They say that when Ms T reported the claim, she 
said that the damage was caused by heavy rain. So they think it was reasonable for them to 
consider this as a storm damage claim. They also dont think the claim, as described, was 
consistant with accidental damage, which added weight to this being a storm damage claim. 
So Fairmead have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision and give then further 
guidance as to how they should reasonably process this as an accidental damage claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Its not disputed that Ms T was covered for both storm damage and accidental damage 
through her home insurance policy. Its also not disputed that, on the day Ms T noticed the 
leak, the weather conditions werent sufficiently bad to be defined as a storm under the 
terms of her policy.
Ive seen the system notes for when Ms T reported the claim on 11 November 2019. These 
notes say:
Heavy rains yesterday insured noticed that there was dripping through ceiling. 
Insured has had water coming through the roof  roofer has been out to the property 
and found some broken tiles. Water has run down into the ceiling of one of the 
rooms. The ceiling is cracked and bowing and the builder has said this is likely to fall 
down  I explained to the insured that in order to cover under Storm we would need 
to confirm that weather has exceeded threshold defined in the policy.
Because the weather conditions on 10 November 2019 didnt meet the policy definition of a 
storm, the claim was declined. Ms T was unhappy with this, and Fairmead arranged for a 
loss adjuster to inspect her property. The loss adjusters report said that the roof had been 
repaired, and there were no photographs of the damage. But it also says that the damage 
caused wasnt consistent with a storm, the area damaged wasnt susceptible to storm 
damage, and there was no evidence of storm to this or neighbouring properties. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Fairmead have acted unfairly by saying that the 
damage to the roof wasnt caused by a storm.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 11 November 2019 where Ms T first reported the 
claim. At no point did she say she thought the damage was caused by a storm. Ms T was 
asked for details of the damages thatd happened, and she said was as a result of water 
coming in through a broken tile. She also said that it looks like its been coming through for a 
while, but shed first noticed this when she heard dripping during a period of heavy rainfall. 
But Ms T wasnt asked how she thought the tile became broken. Instead the claim was 
processed as storm damage because Ms T had said the leak happened when it was raining. 
I appreciate Ms T didnt say at this point that her son had been on the roof, and he may have 
caused some accidental damage. But she was told unless were able to meet the storm 
conditions  those need to be established before were even able to consider the claim 
because there isnt any other peril that were able to cover roof damage under. Because of 
this, its reasonable for Ms T to have thought at this stage that accidental damage to the roof 
wouldnt be covered.
Its fair to say that water would only have come in during rainy conditions. So Fairmead were 
right to consider storm damage. But, especially because Ms T had told them she suspected 
this leak had been ongoing for some time, I think it was unfair for Fairmead to consider storm 
damage to the exclusion of all other insured events.
And, because Ms T wasnt asked about the circumstances of the damage, I dont think its 
fair that her saying it was accidental damage caused by her son having been on the roof is 
being classed as a change in circumstances  as she was never asked the circumstances, 
she hasnt changed these. The circumstances were always assumed by the person taking 
the claim because the leak had been noticed during a period of heavy rainfall.
Putting things right
Its not my role to re-underwrite this claim and decide how the roof damage was caused. But, 
for the reasons given above, I agree theres sufficient evidence to show that Ms T wasnt 
asked enough questions at the outset to determine possible causes of the damage to the 
roof. So I dont think Fairmead acted fairly by only considering storm damage. 
Because of this, Fairmead should reconsider an accidental damage claim.Its also not my role to tell Fairmead how to process this claim. Id expect them to deal with it 
fairly, and in line with how theyd deal with any other similar claim they received. Fairmead 
have mentioned that its for Ms T to provide some proof that this was an insurable event i.e. 
that the roof was accidentally damaged, and this damage caused water to get in during 
heavy rain. If thats how they would usually treat such a claim, then I dont think its unfair 
that they now do so when dealing with Ms Ts claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above uphold Ms Ts complaint about Fairmead Insurance 
Limited and they must follow my directions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman