DRN-2551399
The complaint
Mr L complains Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Charter Savings Bank 
didnt allow him to move his funds to a new fixed rate ISA account with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L lives abroad, and when the fixed rate for his ISA account was due to end, he 
asked Charter Savings Bank if his funds could be transferred to a new fixed rate ISA 
account. Charter Savings Bank said this wasnt something that could be done 
because the terms and conditions for their accounts say new accounts can only be 
opened if the customer resides in the UK. Mr L says this goes against the guidance 
on the government website which says an ISA can be transferred to a different 
provider  even if the customer lives abroad.
I dont disagree that a person with an ISA who no longer resides in the UK can 
transfer their ISA to a new provider. However, thats not what Mr L wanted to do. He 
wanted his funds to stay with the same provider  Charter Savings Bank. And he 
wanted his funds to be put into a new fixed rate ISA account with them  meaning 
Charter Savings Banks would have needed to open a new account for him.
Given that Mr L doesnt live in the UK, he wasnt eligible to open a new ISA account. 
I also cant ignore the fact that Charter Savings Bank doesnt offer new accounts to 
customers who live abroad. So, Charter Savings Bank were simply acting in line with 
the relevant rules that apply to ISAs, and their own terms and conditions when they 
didnt open a new ISA for Mr L. Ive not seen anything to suggest another customer 
with the same circumstances would have been treated differently to Mr L. So, I dont 
consider he has been treated unfairly.
When the fixed rate came to an end on Mr Ls ISA account, his funds were 
transferred to another ISA account he already held with Charter Savings Bank. That 
was fair in the circumstances as it was in line with Mr Ls original instructions 
regarding his funds.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ls frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint about Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as 
Charter Savings Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman