DRN-3260628
The complaint
The estate of Mr M has complained that Barclays Asset Management Limited havent 
released funds from Mr Ms account.
The estate is represented by Ms M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had appointed Mrs M as his sole executor in his will, unless he died first. Mrs M 
appointed Mr M as her sole executor unless he died before her, which sadly he did. 
Accordingly a firm, which I refer to as P, were appointed as executor.
Ms M wanted to release the funds for the estate and in November 2020 she understood from 
Barclays that it had all the documents it required. However in January 2021 it asked P to 
complete a form of renunciation and a certificate of confirmation. These documents were 
returned to Barclays in June 2021, but Barclays then required new forms to be completed 
because of the passage of time. Barclays advised that to re-register P on Mrs Ms account 
they require the original court sealed certificate of confirmation for Mr M and the form of 
renunciation to be completed and signed by P.
I do understand that this entailed a lot of administration for the estate and is upsetting for 
Ms M, relating as it does to her late parents. However, Ms M is not a complainant in her own 
right; rather she is a representative of the estate. As an estate cant experience upset or 
distress I cant require compensation to be paid to her. Thats not to say I dont appreciate 
her frustration.
It is for Barclays to manage their business and put policies and processes in place. This 
service cant tell a financial business how it should operate. I can see that this has been a 
cumbersome process for the estate, and there might have been an opportunity for Barclays 
to set out the requirements more clearly and at one time. But overall, I dont find that 
Barclays requirements for estates are unfair or unreasonable. Barclays have confirmed what 
documentation it requires and Im pleased to note that it is now able to process this in order 
to release the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman