DRN-3237540
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems he experienced with Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) 
when he tried to inform them of address changes and then close his savings account.    
What happened
Mr S opened a Variable Cash ISA account (ISA) with Sainsburys in 2016. On 18 
September 2020, Sainsburys received a letter from Mr S advising hed changed address 
and moved into a care home. Sainsburys wouldnt accept a written request. So, on 30 
September 2020, they wrote back to Mr S and asked him to call them. Alternatively, he could 
change his address using their online banking service. 
Mr S called Sainsburys on 1 October 2020, completed their security checks and his address 
was amended. He also provided details of his account with another bank to receive 
payments from his ISA.
Mr S moved to live with a relative on 28 October 2020. Sainsburys received a further letter 
from Mr S on 2 November 2020 asking them to change his address again. So, Sainsburys 
sent Mr S the same letter theyd sent in September.
Mr S called Sainsburys on 3 November 2020. He wanted to close his ISA and transfer the 
funds to his nominated bank account. Unfortunately, this time Mr S failed Sainsburys 
security checks. So, Sainsburys told him he would need to provide new identification 
documents before they could complete his request. They directed him to their website for 
details of what they required. Sainsburys blocked Mr Ss account including any online 
access.
Shortly after, Sainsburys received various documents from Mr S. But some of them didnt 
meet their requirements. They were able to verify Mr Ss identity and current address, but 
their process meant they needed to verify his previous address as well. 
On 11 November 2020, Sainsburys received copy of a letter of introduction from the care 
home Mr S previously resided at. They agreed to accept this but needed it to be certified. A 
certified copy was received by Sainsburys on 31 December 2020. So, they sent a letter to 
Mr S which included a unique code. They asked him to call back with the code so they could 
reactivate his account. During November 2020, Mr S travelled overseas for health reasons. 
As a result, he didnt receive Sainsburys letter or call them as requested.
A relative of Mr S called Sainsburys on 21 January 2021 to explain they had Power of 
Attorney (POA) and wanted to act on Mr Ss behalf. Sainsburys told the relative how to 
arrange this, but they couldnt discuss Mr Ss account until it had been arranged.
On 9 June 2021, Sainsburys received a letter from Mr S complaining about the problems 
hed experienced. Having investigated Mr Ss complaint, Sainsburys replied to him in a letter 
on 9 July 2021. They didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, so didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with Sainsburys response. So, decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had treated Mr S fairly. They thought 
Sainsburys shouldve recognised that Mr S was potentially a vulnerable person who was 
struggling with their requirements. Our investigator thought Sainsburys shouldve done more 
to help resolve Mr Ss problems more quickly. They said Sainsburys should recognise the 
significant distress and worry caused throughout his experience by paying compensation of 
£150.
Sainsburys didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said there had been no bank 
error and theyd made a special dispensation for Mr S to help him. They didnt agree that 
compensation was appropriate.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I want to acknowledge that Mr S has been waiting some considerable time for 
an outcome to his complaint. Id like to apologise to him for the delays hes experienced and 
assure him that the circumstances of his complaint have been very carefully considered.
I believe its important to clarify the role of this service when considering Mr Ss complaint 
here. Our role isnt to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also not our 
role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements on the 
level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the 
regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ss experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply.
Its apparent that many of the problems and frustrations Mr S experienced resulted from 
significant changes in his life. These led to him deciding to sell and leave his own property to 
move into a care home for a period. I hope Mr S will not mind if I mention that as an elderly 
gentleman, I recognise that his independence would be very important to him. 
Mr S then took the decision to relocate to a different part of the UK to initially live with a 
family relative before purchasing a new property near to that relative. During this period of 
change, Mr S also felt the need to spend some time overseas in order to address some 
health difficulties.
On each occasion Mr S told Sainsburys about his new address, he chose to do that by 
writing to them. But the terms and conditions associated with his account meant that 
Sainsburys couldnt accept written instructions. So, this meant Mr S needed to either amend 
his address using Sainsburys online banking service or call Sainsburys with his instruction. 
This is their policy and process as the product Mr S had was essentially an online account. 
So, I cant really say Sainsburys did anything wrong here. 
Mr Ss first experience of this was in October 2020, when he successfully completed 
Sainsburys security checks and updated his address. However, when he wanted to amend 
his address a second time, he again wrote to Sainsburys. So, its clear to me that Mr S 
didnt fully appreciate or understand Sainsburys process. 
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ss call to Sainsburys in November 2020. My overriding 
impression was that Mr S wasnt entirely confident with what was being asked of him. And 
although Sainsburys were polite and tried to help, I think there were clear signs that Mr S 
might be considered vulnerable. Sainsburys were aware Mr S was an elderly gentleman. 
And during the conversation, they were also made aware that hed been living in a care 
home and was moving to live with a relative. Theres also evidence that Mr S was, at times, 
struggling to hear or understand questions asked of him.The FCA has published a number of papers about their research into how the UKs ageing 
population impacts the financial services industry. They say that While older consumers are 
not necessarily vulnerable, we found that there are risks that their financial services needs 
are not being met, resulting in exclusion, poor customer outcomes and potential harm. This 
is particularly the case for those aged 75 years and over.
Sainsburys have their own policies and guidance specifically where there may be signs of 
vulnerability. Ive considered that guidance within the context of Mr Ss experience with 
them. Their guidance makes provision for recording vulnerabilities on customer files, where 
consent is provided. Where not provided, they may still record a suspected vulnerability, but 
limit the detail they record. This appears a sensible approach and would enable them to 
identify where additional help and support might be appropriate. 
Having listened to the call, I think Sainsburys couldve asked Mr S more about his concerns 
and understanding. Particularly as he was clearly very distressed and agitated at times. Had 
they done that; I think they may have been able to obtain Mr Ss consent to place a 
vulnerability marker on his file. In any event, I think the situation warranted that, even if 
unconfirmed. And I think this wouldve prompted them to explore alternative ways to provide 
enhanced support to help Mr S comply with their requirements. 
I accept that Sainsburys have their own policies and procedures when it comes to consumer 
security and verification. And as these are in place in order to ensure Sainsburys meet their 
regulatory and legal obligations, I think their requirements were entirely reasonable. But Im 
not persuaded that their explanations to Mr S combined with directing him to their website, 
were enough here. I think more couldve been done to assist Mr S in satisfying their 
requirements.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied that Sainsburys treated Mr S completely fairly. And 
acknowledging that Mr S ultimately managed to satisfy Sainsburys requirements and 
retrieve the funds from his account, I think the process took far longer than it needed to 
causing Mr S both unnecessary distress and inconvenience along the way. So, I shall be 
asking Sainsburys to compensate Mr S for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mr S of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman