DRN-2838098
The complaint
Mr P and Ms B are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced the amount it was willing 
to lend to them when they notified it that the price of the property they were buying had been 
reduced.
  
What happened
Mr P and Ms B applied for a mortgage with Barclays to buy a new property.
Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 13 July 2020. That said that Barclays was willing to lend 
around £491,500 and that the purchase price was £715,000.
On 14 August Mr P and Ms B negotiated a reduction in the purchase price to £689,000, and 
they notified Barclays of that change on 24 September.
As that constituted a material change, Barclays had to withdraw the offer it had made and 
underwrite the application again. Unfortunately, on 4 September Barclays had changed its 
lending policy, decreasing the income multiples it would use.
Whilst the new amount Barclays should have lent under its new policy was less than this, the 
Barclays underwriter agreed a revised lending amount of around £473,650 based on the 
new purchase price of £689,000 so it matched the loan to value (LTV) of the original 
application. That way Mr P and Ms B didnt need to find a larger deposit, as the deposit 
required for the original purchase amount was around £223,500 whereas for the new 
amount it was only around £215,350.
Unhappy with that Mr P and Ms B complained to Barclays. Barclays didnt uphold the 
complaint, but unfortunately its letter contained incorrect information about why the loan 
amount was reduced. It offered £100 compensation for the fact the complaint had been 
closed in error.
Our investigator looked at things and whilst she didnt uphold the main thrust of the 
complaint, she felt Barclays had caused Mr P and Ms B some distress and inconvenience by 
the fact the explanation in Barclays letter was wrong. She said she felt a total of £200 
compensation should be paid.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr P and Ms B didnt agree and so it 
was passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays changed its lending policy on 4 September, or that Mr P and 
Ms B didnt notify Barclays of the change in purchase price until after that date.
Barclays withdrew the mortgage offer it issued on 7 July due to the following clause (from 
the Supplementary Conditions):
We can withdraw the offer or change its terms (whether or not you have agreed to buy 
the property), but only before the advance is made under the mortgage, in the following 
circumstances: a) where we become aware or suspect that any information you have 
provided to enable us to make our lending decision is incorrect or misleading; b) where 
any information that we have obtained materially changes and such change affects our 
decision to lend; c) where you request and we agree to a variation in the amount of the 
loan; d) following internal investigations and/or advice from our solicitor, valuer or other 
professional adviser which would directly affect our decision to lend as the Bank's security 
might not offer adequate security or the security the Bank would have expected; e) where 
it appears that the mortgage will be in breach of the law; f) to change the offer so as to 
correct an error in it (such as inconsistent or inaccurate particulars of you, the property or 
the terms of the mortgage).
The reduction in the purchase price was a material change that could have affected 
Barclays decision to lend. This meant the existing mortgage offer had to be withdrawn and 
an underwriter needed to look at the application again to ensure Barclays was still willing to 
lend against the property and, if so, how much it would be willing to lend. Thats fairly normal 
in the mortgage industry, and what I would expect to see.
Unfortunately, since the original mortgage offer had been agreed Barclays lending policy 
had changed and it was no longer using such high income multiples. Under the new policy 
Barclays wasnt able to lend Mr P and Ms B the amount it had originally agreed to as it didnt 
fit the new income multiples. To try to help Mr P and Ms B, the underwriter used their 
discretion to agree an amount higher than would normally be allowed under the income 
multiples, to match the LTV - at 68.7% - to the same level as had originally been offered.
I understand Mr P and Ms B feel that as the underwriter used their discretion to lend more 
than the new policy allowed by matching the LTV, then the underwriter could also have used 
that discretion to lend the full amount they wanted. Barclays is entitled to set  and amend  
its lending criteria based on its appetite for risk at any time. It is also entitled to decide to use 
its discretion to lend outside that criteria up to a certain LTV  here that was to match the 
original LTV agreed. Thats not something Id interfere with as those are commercial 
decisions that Barclays is entitled to make.
In terms of the maths, the amount Barclays offered in October actually meant a smaller 
deposit was needed from Mr P and Ms B than was originally needed based on the July offer 
(£215,350 rather than £223,500) so, in theory, the purchase was still progressable compared 
to the original offer. It may be Mr P and Ms B wanted some extra funds to be available for 
other things  perhaps some works on the property  but, thats not something I can take 
into consideration here.
Mr P has pointed to some emails between him and Barclays after the announcement of the 
revised lending policy:Mr P:I just want to check this doesnt apply to us: [link to media article about the 
change in lending policy around income multiples]
Barclays:No, this doesnt apply to you because you have a mortgage offer. 
If we need to start again though (offer expires for example) then we will have 
to do it on the 4.49x income.
That was correct information at the time (based on the knowledge the adviser had). As far as 
the adviser was aware Mr P and Ms B werent affected by the change as they had a 
mortgage offer in place. But what the adviser didnt know  because Mr P and Ms B hadnt 
told him  is that the purchase price had been reduced three weeks earlier; a material 
change that would lead to the offer being withdrawn and the underwriting needing to start 
again.
It is unfortunate that Mr P and Ms B didnt tell Barclays about the reduction in the purchase 
price in the three weeks between that being agreed and the change in Barclays lending 
policy, but I cant hold Barclays liable for that. The reduction was a material change such that 
the original offer needed to be withdrawn and the application referred back to an underwriter 
for consideration. As soon as that happened Barclays was right to use its revised lending 
policy for those considerations. Barclays tried to help Mr P and Ms B by lending more than 
that new policy would normally allow, by increasing the loan amount to the previously agreed 
68.7% LTV, but it didnt need to do any more than that.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr P and Ms B found themselves in, I 
simply cant uphold this complaint, however much they may want me to.
Barclays agreed to pay £200 compensation for the confusion caused by its incorrect 
explanation of the reduced lending amount, and having considered everything Im satisfied 
thats a fair and reasonable offer. I cant order more to be paid as whilst Barclays shouldnt 
have got the explanation wrong (and by getting it wrong it caused additional inconvenience 
to Mr P and Ms B), even if the correct explanation had been given it wouldnt have altered 
the overall outcome of this complaint.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint only insofar as I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 
compensation to Mr P and Ms B for the confusion and inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect explanation given in its letter.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Ombudsman