DRN-2533465
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to decline a refund of money he lost to a 
scam.  
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr D was the victim of a scam after he found a car 
advertised for sale online. He contacted the seller and agreed to pay half the cost upfront in 
order to secure the car. He made a payment of £2,000 using telephone banking, after 
speaking with a member of staff. The payment was delayed by the bank and processed the 
following day. There was then a second payment of £10 made to a different account, on the 
day Mr D was due to collect the car. Mr D sent the small sum ahead of paying the balance 
for the car in order to establish the new payee on his account, hoping to avoid the same 
delays as with the first payment. But when he went to collect the car he discovered there that 
hed been scammed. There was no legitimate sale and the car wasnt at the address hed 
been given.  
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. Its said that it gave Mr D sufficient warnings about this 
type of scam at the time he made the payment. And it also says Mr D didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was engaged in a legitimate purchase.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. He 
didnt believe HSBC had fairly assessed Mr Ds claim under the CRM Code and said that the 
warning wasnt effective and that he did think Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief.
As the bank disagreed the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr D 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr D lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ds current account, having first been transferred from 
his savings.  Mr D has said he had to have a car for work and so bought one shortly 
after the scam was revealed. But as he didnt have the necessary funds (having lost 
money to this scam) he had to borrow money from HSBC. If the firm had refunded 
Mr D when it should have done, he wouldnt have had to borrow those funds. And so 
HSBC should pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per 
year from the date it declined the claim to the date of settlement. That then 
reasonably compensates Mr D for not having access to the funds and for having to 
take out lending to finance a car purchase.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mr D had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me that Mr D wasnt due a refund under the CRM Code.  In particular I am not 
persuaded that Mr D failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose 
not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
Im not persuaded the warnings were sufficiently specific or impactful to amount to an 
effective warning in line with SF1(2) of the CRM Code. In reaching that conclusion 
Im mindful that:
oThe first set of warnings HSBC provided didnt relate to the situation Mr D 
was in and were read through at speed by the call handler  somewhat 
undermining their significance. Upon finding out the purpose of the payment 
was to buy a car, the call handler provided further warnings about goods and 
services not being received. These just consisted of asking whether Mr D was 
confident the payment details were correct (presumably to ensure the 
payment details hadnt been intercepted by a fraudster by email), whether he 
was making a genuine purchase, and making Mr D aware that there are 
instances where customers send payments but never receive the goods as 
they didnt exist, or the seller didnt have the right to sell them. I dont think 
this was enough. HSBC is aware of the prevalence of online car purchase 
scams, but it didnt alert Mr D to the common features of this type of scam, 
such as: the seller can apply pressure to ensure payment is made quickly, the 
cost of the car could be less than expected, fraudsters clone adverts for 
genuine cars for sale etc. In my view effective warnings would need to be 
impactful enough to overcome, or at least attempt to overcome, the typical 
features of the type of scam it was seeking to prevent. Im not persuaded this 
was the case here.
oThe warning didnt enable the customer  Mr D in this case  to understand 
what actions he could take to reduce the risk that he might be falling victim to 
a scam. HSBC has argued that Mr D mightve asked to see the car before 
sending any money, requested a copy of the V5C or enquired about 
alternative (and protected) payment methods. But none of these actions or 
suggestions were included within the warnings HSBC provided. 
I accept warnings about goods and services not being received were provided (even 
though Ive concluded they didnt amount to Effective Warnings) so Ive thought 
about whether Mr D acted appropriately notwithstanding the warnings. I think he did. 
Mr D was convinced he was dealing with a genuine party when he called the bank to 
make the payment. That is likely to be the case when someone is caught up in a 
scam, though some customers will harbor more doubts than others. But here, Mr D 
was convinced and so the warning needed to be specific and impactful in order to be 
likely to break the fraudsters spell. Mr D had been able to freely communicate with 
the seller and obtained details about the car in order to carry out an HPI check. Hed 
also seen that the seller was well-rated on eBay and so took confidence from that. 
And so I find he acted reasonably in the face of the warnings he was given, 
particularly when taking into account how the warnings fell short, as Ive explained above.
HSBC argues that a better warning would have made no difference, believing Mr D 
would have proceeded in any case. Its my understanding HSBC is referring to this 
extract from the Standards for Firms within the Code The assessment of whether a 
Firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance 
with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam that 
took place. While I accept firms should consider, in assessing whether it met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code, whether compliance with a standard 
under the SF provisions would have had a material effect on preventing the APP 
scam that took place, if the customer met their requisite level of care, they should be 
reimbursed. This includes the scenario where both the customer and the firm have 
met the expected level of care  also known as the no blame scenario. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, Im persuaded HSBC couldve provided a better warning, that 
met the requirements of an Effective Warning, and in doing so I think its more likely 
than not the scam wouldve been prevented. I dont think its fair for HSBC to assume 
that in Mr D telling them he was more than happy with the proposed purchase that 
hed have gone ahead whatever theyd done to try and protect him from falling victim 
to a scam. Instead, I think it is more likely than not that Mr D would have listened to 
what the bank  the expert in this case - had to say about the prevalence and 
features of such scams, and would have taken note of the possible steps to protect 
himself. Had the bank imparted its knowledge of such scams, by way of an Effective 
Warning, in the circumstances, Im persuaded Mr D would have gone on to make 
some additional enquiries which would have likely revealed the scam. The bank is 
relying on a comment made by Mr D when he was still convinced the purchase was 
genuine and had been given very little education or warning on the type of scam he 
was caught up in, or how to avoid it. And so the response he gave at the time doesnt 
persuade me he wouldnt have done anything differently in the face of an effective 
warning.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr D lacked a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payment was legitimate because:
The seller had a 100% positive rating on the website where the car was advertised
oI accept the reviews were established on the back of purchasing lower value 
items, rather than items sold (cars or otherwise), but the way the seller was 
described on the face of it, without clicking to look into the details of the 
reviews, was 100% positive. So overall, I find its reasonable to take a degree 
of confidence in such a rating;
Mr D had been able to communicate with the seller on the phone and ask questions 
about the car, over three or four different calls. The seller willingly provided Mr D with 
enough information for him to be able to carry out an HPI check. And hed been given 
a persuasive story about other parties being interested and that he was looking to 
sell the car as he was leaving the country. The scammer even discussed the sale 
with his wife whilst Mr D was on the phone. These small details made the seller and 
the reason for the sale come across as genuine;
The advert looked legitimate and was indeed for a genuine car as the details had 
been copied from elsewhere;
Whilst Mr D could have paid a smaller deposit, he was convinced another party was 
interested and had already offered 50% to secure the car. So Mr D had reason to 
send a larger deposit than he might have otherwise;HSBC argues that the price for the car was too good to be true, stating it was 
significantly below market value and providing adverts for similar cars to demonstrate 
this. But Im satisfied the price alone ought not have raised concern for Mr D. Ive 
found the price was less than the average for that model, age and mileage of car. An 
independent valuation website (rather than advertisements) states the car, in 
average condition, could be worth about £1,300 more than Mr D was going to pay for 
it. Whilst this isnt an insignificant sum, I dont think it clearly identifies the sale as a 
scam or too good to be true. And thats particularly true given the car was being sold 
privately, on an auction website, where one might more reasonably expect to find 
cheaper than average goods. Those points, combined with the fact Mr D was told the 
seller was leaving the country, brought across reasonable explanations for a lower 
price;
Ive asked Mr D what he thought about the price specifically. Hes said it was an 
attractive price and he guessed it was about £1,500 below what hed expect to see it 
priced at if it was on a garage forecourt. Mr D says that he reasoned the price was 
likely lower as it was a private sale. And his considerations here were reinforced by 
the sellers story about leaving the country. And so I dont think the price can be said 
to be too good to be true, or so low that Mr D ought to have assumed something was 
wrong;
HSBC has also said Mr D ought to have carried out more checks, and been more 
suspicious of the price, given he had a history of buying and selling cars. Mr D has 
confirmed he used to run dealerships back in 2001 but has been out of the industry 
since then (but for selling a few cars for family and friends). When he was in the 
motor trade his sales would be through other dealerships, rather than online. And so I 
dont think this ought to have made Mr D more familiar with online purchases of cars 
or the risks there. Or at least not to the extent where I find he didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief that he was engaging in a legitimate purchase. Ive 
spoken to Mr D about his general awareness of scams and hes described knowing 
about rogue trader scams and people pretending to call from banks, but not ones 
involving bank to bank transfers of money for goods purchased. Hes said he 
believed any such payments would be secure, on the understanding someone 
wouldnt be able to open an account for the purposes of committing fraud. Or that, if 
they did, they would be easy to track down and money would be easy to recover. 
This service and HSBC know that isnt the case and I believe Mr Ds thoughts on the 
matter show he wasnt familiar with the type of scam he fell victim to or the risks of 
buying a car online. He wasnt caused to question his basis for belief. And so I dont 
find his previous experience of buying and selling cars leads to the conclusion that he 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in the purchase he thought he was making. 
And its worth reiterating here that the banks warning didnt do much to educate Mr D 
about these risks;
Its important to remember, when making an assessment of reasonable basis for 
belief under the CRM Code, that the customers actions must be considered against 
what was happening at the time. That is to say that subscribers to the Code like 
HSBC ought not look back on a scam with the benefit of hindsight. It would of course 
have been better if Mr D had requested a copy of the V5C, for example. But the fact 
that Mr D didnt do so here doesnt automatically mean that he acted unreasonably or 
that he lacked a reasonable basis for belief that he was making a legitimate 
transaction. And the purchasing of cars without seeing them first is becoming 
increasingly common  something Im satisfied HSBC is aware of - and so it wouldnt 
be fair to say that to do so  in and of itself  is to act unreasonably.Im not persuaded the HPI check Mr D purchased adds much here. Based on the 
copy of the HPI check I have seen, he didnt complete the check until after hed made 
the first payment and the parts he was able to complete without seeing the car in 
person didnt show anything untoward. And in any event, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think, in this particular case that the absence of further checks 
means that Mr D didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that he was paying for 
genuine goods or transacting with a legitimate person.  
There was a second payment made by Mr D, using different account details and following 
another call with the bank. I understand this has been refunded by the recipient bank and so 
theres no need for me to consider it further  
Putting things right
With all of my findings in mind Im satisfied Mr D met his requisite level of care under the 
CRM Code. HSBC ought to have refunded him when he made his claim and so it is fair and 
reasonable that it refund him now. It should:
Refund the £2,000 lost to the scam and not yet recovered;
Pay interest on that sum at 8% simple per year, from the date HSBC decided not to 
refund Mr D under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman