DRN-1344935
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs S took out a hire purchase agreement in 1996. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the monthly repayment if Mrs S was 
unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until 
either Mrs S returned to work or for up to 12 months. During the time the policy was active 
on Mrs Ss account she was charged £14.34 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 23 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs S that the PPI was optional.
 Mrs S applied for the hire purchase at a store, the credit was used to buy electrical goods.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original hire purchase application form. I can see that the 
credit agreement has been printed and includes Mrs Ss name, address and telephone 
numbers. So I think it must have been completed during a conversation with a member of 
staff at the store, before being printed and passed to Mrs S to check and sign.
I can see there is a section for PPI.  A box has been marked with a printed cross to accept 
the PPI. I think it is likely the box was marked following a discussion with the member of staff 
at the store.After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mrs S didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs S clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint.
I next need to decide whether or not Mrs S would have changed her mind about buying the 
policy if she had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done. 
I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
If Mrs S couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve covered her monthly repayment 
every month for up to 12 months. And it wouldve paid the same benefit if Mrs S lost her job.
Mrs S has said shed only receive statutory sick pay if she couldnt work. But the policy 
would pay any benefit in addition to her statutory sick pay.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mrs S wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Mrs S has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mrs S was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs S had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman