DRN-3174532
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC  as the receiving bank  failed to 
take effective steps to prevent its loss when G sent money to Lloyds customers accounts as 
the result of a scam.
G is represented in this complaint by Mr P, the companys director, and a legal 
representative. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to G throughout my decision.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here.
In February 2019 G sadly fell victim to an email interception scam and was tricked into 
transferring money from its account with Barclays to two accounts held with Lloyds. Some 
of the funds were recovered and returned, but a loss of around £311,000 remains. 
G believes Lloyds and Barclays are jointly responsible. A linked complaint about the actions 
of Barclays has been looked into together with this one and is being decided under a 
different complaint reference. G would like a refund of the outstanding loss; an interest 
award to be made for the time its been without the funds; compensation for the stress and 
worry caused; and reimbursement of the legal costs that have been incurred in bringing 
these complaints.
Lloyds didnt uphold Gs complaint. In summary it said it couldnt agree to a refund as it has 
found no errors in its handling of the recipient accounts and the payments received from G. 
Gs complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. As G didnt agree, the matter was reviewed by my colleague 
Ombudsman, who has issued two provisional decisions in relation to this complaint. The first 
dated 13 January 2022 set out his thoughts on our jurisdiction, this being the aspects of Gs 
complaint against Lloyds that we can  and cant  look into. The second dated 15 February 
2022 explained that he was intending on partially upholding Gs complaint against Lloyds  
but did not intend on making an award.
Lloyds responded to the Ombudsmans first provisional decision saying that it had nothing 
further to add and no objections to the conclusions reached by the Ombudsman. But no 
response was received from Lloyds in relation to the Ombudsmans second 
provisional decision.
G didnt agree. It made further detailed submissions.
As the parties are aware, the complaint was passed to me to determine.
I wrote to both parties on 26 September 2022 setting out the extent of the issues we are able 
to consider, for the avoidance of ambiguity and so that both parties are clear about the 
scope of what we can and cant look into. In short, I explained:
- The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint referred to it. 
One of the requirements is that it can only consider a complaint if it is brought by or on 
behalf of an eligible complainant. Part of the test to be considered an eligible 
complainant requires G, to have with Lloyds, one of the relationships specified in DISP 
and for the complaint to arise from matters relevant to that relationship.
- Gs complaint against Lloyds is about the actions it took in relation to third party 
accounts that received payments it had sent. So, the relevant relationship under which 
G is an eligible complainant is DISP 2.7.6R(2B), which was introduced and came into 
effect on 31 January 2019.
- Part of Gs complaint is about the opening of the accounts which received its funds. Any 
failures in relation to the account opening (under the DISP 2.7.6R (2B) relationship) 
requires that those failures took place on or after 31 January 2019  which is not the 
case here as Lloyds have evidenced that both recipient accounts were opened before 
that date. It follows we do not have the power to comment on or investigate Lloyds 
actions when opening the recipient accounts. Similarly, any activity on those accounts 
that might potentially have warranted intervention by Lloyds, but that took place before 
31 January 2019, cant be considered.
- My considerations about Gs complaint are limited to Lloyds acts or omissions on or 
after 31 January 2019.
Both Lloyds and G responded to say they accept the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction as set out in my provisional jurisdiction decision dated 26 September 2022. To 
formalise that outcome, I issued a jurisdiction decision on 21 October 2022.
On 16 June 2023 I issued my provisional decision about the aspects of Gs complaint I could 
consider. I said: 
Firstly, I appreciate G would really like to know, and has on several occasions asked for an 
explanation of why and how different case handlers have come to different outcomes. I can 
absolutely see how this can have an impact on its confidence in our services function. 
Having said that, the purpose of sharing preliminary assessments, before progressing to a 
final decision, is to help refine the issues by enabling the parties to have their say and this 
helps our service arrive at a fair and reasonable decision. The issues raised in this case are 
complex by nature. They can be approached from multiple, and sometimes competing 
perspectives. Understandably of all the answers given, G agrees with the answer that is 
most favourable to its position. But Im not bound by the outcomes reached by our 
Investigators, nor those that my colleague Ombudsman indicated he was minded to reach in 
his provisional decisions. Ultimately, Im required to review the facts of a case and reach my 
own conclusion, independently. And the purpose of my decision is to explain my 
determination and why I consider it to be a fair and reasonable outcome  not explain why 
my colleagues may have come to different conclusions.
Of course, in reaching my decision I am required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. But 
ultimately my role as an Ombudsman is to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.G has made lengthy and detailed submissions in support of its complaints. Ive reviewed all 
the material it has submitted. But Im not going to address every single point raised here. 
Instead, my intended decision will concentrate on what I think are the key issues. Id like to 
assure G no discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ill start by addressing Gs request for its complaints against Lloyds and Barclays to be 
considered together and setting out the approach I intend on taking.
Our services ability to investigate complaints together and apportion the burden of redress 
between respondents is the subject of no specific rule and only limited guidance, which can 
be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook at DISP 3.5.3G and 
DISP 3.6.3G, which say:
DISP 3.5.3G. Where two or more complaints from one complainant relate to connected 
circumstances, the Ombudsman may investigate them together, but will issue separate 
provisional assessments and determinations in respect of each respondent.
DISP 3.6.3G. Where a complainant makes complaints against more than one respondent in 
respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents 
must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman considers 
appropriate.
Here as the circumstances of Gs complaint against Lloyds are so closely linked 
(connected) with its complaint against Barclays Im minded to agree with G that a fair 
approach would be to look into these complaints together; but I should then make separate 
decisions.
I understand G feels the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction over both 
respondents and could, if it chooses, decide to treat the complaints as a single merged 
complaint, so that the respondents are treated as a single entity. I note G also suggests that 
I issue a determination concerning both respondents acts or omissions and make a joint 
and severable finding against both banks, and it would then be for the respondents to 
choose to pay half of the award each, alternatively one of them can pay the entire award and 
claim back from the other an appropriate amount. But G hasnt persuaded me, nor can I see 
any reasonable or proper basis for me to depart from the guidance found in DISP 3.5.3G 
and DISP 3.6.3G. That is because normally firms are only responsible for their own acts and 
omissions, and under the rules which govern this service a complaint must be framed by the 
complainant against a firm, based on its own acts and omissions, and decided by an 
Ombudsman accordingly. Whilst there are some exceptions to that rule, for example where a 
firm accepts responsibility for an agent, appointed representative, or predecessor firm, none 
of these apply between the banks involved in these two linked complaints, which are 
separate organisations answerable only for their own acts and omissions. So, each bank is 
entitled to receive a decision concerning the complaint that has been made against it and I 
dont consider it would be appropriate, or even open to me, to deal with them in the way G 
suggests.
The facts
I can see on several occasions G has commented that the sequence of events has not been 
fully understood. In fact in response to the provisional decision issued by my colleague 
Ombudsman G says that hes made an error in calculating the initial sum that was lost. G said, whilst four payments of £50,000 (totalling £200,000) were attempted, only £100,000 
was actually sent to the account at Lloyds because the third and fourth payments of £50,000 
were reversed as a result of alerts by Lloyds.
I cant see that G has provided any conclusive evidence in support of its assertion. 
Ultimately, what it has said appears to be largely based on Gs directors recollection of the 
events  some of which I do think is supported by the evidence. But also, some of which 
isnt, where Im more persuaded by the technical evidence Ive seen (such as Lloyds and 
Barclays system logs and transaction data). But since much has been made about the 
chronology of the payments and events, Ive set out below what I understand to have 
happened, and when, based on the evidence available to me.
All the below payments were made from Gs account with Barclays to two accounts held with 
Lloyds. Ill refer to the recipient accounts as account X and account Y.
Payment 
NumberRecipient 
AccountPayment 
ChannelDate Time the 
Payment 
was 
Processed 
(approx.)Amount 
Payment 1 X Online 12 February 2019 11.02am £50,000
Payment 2 X Mobile 12 February 2019 11.34am £50,000
Payment 3 X Online 13 February 2019 9.42am £50,000
Payment 4 X Mobile 13 February 2019 9.42am £50,000
All the above payments credited the recipient account. There was spending following 
receipt of the payments (which Ive detailed later on in my decision). 
Lloyds placed blocks on account X around 12.00pm on 13 February 2019. This resulted in 
payments 5 and 6 being returned to Gs account with Barclays.   
Payment 5 X Mobile 14 February 2019 8.30am (£50,000)
Payment was 
returned 
Payment 6 X Online 14 February 2019 8.42am (£50,000)
Payment was 
returned 
G received an email on 14 February 2019, informing it about the change in account details. 
The payments which followed were made to new account details. This account was also 
held with Lloyds. 
Payment 7 Y Online 15 February 2019 10.28am £50,000
Payment 7 appears to have been instructed on 14 February 2019 at 12.33pm. Barclays 
contact notes say it spoke to Gs director on 15 February 2019 at around 10.30am. The 
above payment was confirmed as genuine and released.
Payment 8 Y Online 15 February 2019 10.34am £50,000
Barclays contact notes say it spoke to G again on 15 February 2019 at around 2.30pm. 
Blocks removed. 
Payment 9 Y Mobile 16 February 2019 9.21am £50,000
Payment 10 Y Online 16 February 2019 5.50pm £50,000
Payment 10 was instructed on 16 February 2019 at 10.02am. Barclays contact notes show 
blocks placed on Gs online banking were removed on 16 February 2019. This would 
suggest G spoke to Barclays, likely in relation to the above payment, which would explain 
the time between instruction and execution.  Payment 11 Y Mobile 17 February 2019 9.45am £50,000
Barclays contact notes show on 18 February 2019 it placed blocks on Gs account and left a 
message as it had concerns about the payments made to Lloyds. 
Barclays contact notes show it spoke to G on 19 February 2019, who confirmed payments 
as genuine.  
Barclays contact notes show G called to report fraud on 20 February 2019. It contacts 
Lloyds the same day at around 4.00pm. 
Relevant law, regulation and guidance
As I have mentioned, in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case, I must take into account relevant law and regulation, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice: DISP 3.6.4 R. So, Ill briefly summarise some key aspects 
of these.
A receiving bank isnt normally a service provider to the sending banks customer, so there 
isnt any contractual relationship between them and no duty of care has been found to arise 
at common law. And, as I explain in the next section, the receiving banks obligation under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) is to credit the account identified in the 
payment instruction.
However, in providing their services to the public banks must also operate in a wider 
regulatory context; and one of the aims of the regulatory system under Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000) is to help drive crime out of the United Kingdoms 
financial system. The FCA is given an integrity objective (s 1B(3) FSMA 2000) of protecting 
and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system, where integrity is defined as 
including the system not being used for a purpose connected with financial crime (1D FSMA 
2000). The FCAs Handbook contains rules by which it promotes this objective, most notably 
in its Systems and Controls Sourcebook (SYSC).
Under SYSC, banks and other regulated firms must take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for countering the risk they might be used to further 
financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6 R). Such systems must enable the firm to identify, assess, 
monitor and manage the risk of its being used to further money laundering, whilst also being 
comprehensive and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the firms activities 
(SYSC 3.2.6A R). This obligation is a continuous one and firms are obliged to assess 
regularly the adequacy of their systems and controls in this area (SYSC 3.2.6C R). Firms 
must also have in place adequate policies and procedures for ensuring the firm and its 
personnel counter the risk that it might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 6.1.1R).
Although the nature of its systems and controls is a matter for each firm to decide, the FCA 
says they should include money laundering training for its employees, internal reporting to 
the firms governing body, policy documentation, and measures to ensure money laundering 
risk is taken into account in its day-to-day operations (SYSC 3.2.6 G). Firms should also 
refer to guidance published by the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG 
guidance); and the FCA has regard to whether that guidance has been followed when 
considering whether the firm has breached its systems and controls rules (SYSC 3.2.6E G).The FCA itself issues extensive guidance on how to combat financial crime. This can be 
found within the Regulatory Guides section of the FCA Handbook, as Financial Crime 
Guide: a firms guide to countering financial crime risks (FCG). In relation to money 
laundering (Chapter 3), the FCG explains the various layers of protections that firms should 
have in place, starting with their governance, in terms of how responsibilities are allocated 
and reporting lines arranged; focussing on the Money Laundering Reporting Officers 
experience, seniority, resources, access to information, and performance; the risk 
assessment firms should undertake to establish their exposures; the customer due diligence 
checks for verifying the identity and beneficial ownership of their customers, as well as 
ascertaining the purpose and nature of the relationship with the customer; and the firms 
ongoing monitoring of the relationship.
The most comprehensive guidance to the UK financial sector on preventing money 
laundering is that published by the JMLSG. Within this, the sectoral guidance addressed to 
retail banking identifies the areas of greatest risk for them. It points out that there is a high 
risk that the proceeds of crime will pass through retail bank accounts (paragraphs 1.3, 
part 2), and states that identity theft presents an increasing risk but represents a very small 
percentage of overall business (paragraph 1.4, part 2). Extensive material is provided to help 
retail banks undertake appropriate customer due diligence. As regards monitoring of the 
banks relationships, the guidance states that some form of automated monitoring of 
customer transactions and activity will probably be required but staff vigilance is also 
essential for various reasons, including prompt reporting of initial suspicions 
(paragraph 1.43).
So, I think it reasonable to expect a bank such as Lloyds to have systems that gave it a 
sound understanding of its customers business, so far as this concerned the purpose and 
nature of the banking relationship, and for monitoring accounts for unexpected and 
potentially suspicious transactions that might be connected to money laundering or other 
kinds of financial crime and for promptly taking action where such transactions were 
detected.
Beneficiary name mismatch on receipt of payments
G says that Lloyds should have matched the named payee on one or more of the payment 
instructions to its own records. Had it done so the irregularities of the transfer would have 
been observed at that stage. It should have then notified Barclays of the irregularity and 
required Barclays to provide this information to G. It believes had such steps occurred, the 
fraud wouldve been stopped. Its unclear whether G thinks Lloyds should have done so 
upon receipt of each payment or from the point at which it suspected fraud and returned 
funds to Barclays. So for avoidance of doubt and completeness Ill provide my thoughts on 
both.
At the time the payments were made, there was no requirement on receipt of a payment for 
the recipient bank/payment service provider (PSP) to check whether the named 
accountholder matched the named payee on the payment instruction.
The relevant regulations, that being the PSRs, set out that a payment is sent according to a 
unique identifier. This is the key information used to route the payment to the correct 
destination and payee.The PSRs define a unique identifier as follows:
  unique identifier means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols specified to the 
payment service user by the payment service provider and to be provided by the payment 
service user in relation to a payment transaction in order to identify unambiguously one or 
both of 
(a) another payment service user who is a party to the payment transaction;
(b) the other payment service users payment account
For UK payments this is typically the account number and sort code. Other information may
be provided as part of the payment instruction, but this is not part of the unique identifier, 
unless it has been specified as such by the PSP  which is not the case here.
A payee name is not unique. A PSP could hold multiple accounts for persons with the same 
name, however, no two payment accounts share the same account number and sort-code  
this is unique to that specific payment account. Therefore, typically these details (not a 
payees name) are considered the unique identifier.
Section 90 of the PSRs states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique 
identifier 
(5) Where the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a) (information required prior to the conclusion of a single payment service 
contract) or paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 (prior general information for framework 
contracts), the payment service provider is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service user.
The impact of this is that as long as the payees PSP processes the payment transaction in 
accordance with the unique identifier provided and the funds are credited to the specified 
account number and sort-code the payment is considered to be executed correctly.
In August 2019, which is after the events in this case, the Payment Systems Regulator, who 
are the regulator for the payment systems industry in the UK, directed the UKs six leading 
banks to introduce a system called Confirmation of Payee (CoP) by March 2020. This 
system checks the name on the recipients bank account to provide the payer with 
confirmation of a match, partial match, or mismatch as part of the payment process to 
prevent misdirected payments occurring, whether as a result of a mistake or fraud. However, 
at the material time CoP was not in place and Lloyds systems like most other PSPs were 
set up to automatically credit payments received to the account with the corresponding 
unique identifier. And the checking of the payees name against the recipient accountholders 
name was not part of the payment process, nor was it, as Ive explained above a 
requirement under the relevant regulations, the PSRs.
So I cant fairly say that Lloyds did anything wrong when not checking whether the 
beneficiary name provided as part of the overall payment instruction matched that of the 
named accountholder at the time of processing the payments.But I do accept that once Lloyds had, or ought reasonably to have had, concerns that meant 
it should investigate how the recipient account was being used, it should have identified the 
mismatch, investigated this further, and, based on the conclusion its investigation yielded, 
taken the most appropriate course of action.
So Ill now go onto consider whether there were any failings by Lloyds in relation to the 
account activity (monitoring) which I think would have prevented any of Gs loss.
Though all the payments made by G were part of the same scam, its important to note that 
these were sent to two different accounts held with Lloyds. These recipient accounts werent 
held by the same accountholder and other than being involved in the same scam there was 
no obvious link between them, so Ill consider Lloyds acts and/or omissions in relation to 
each of its customers accounts separately, starting with the first account  account X, which 
payments were made to.
Account X
The table below shows when the funds arrived in account X; when they were spent; and 
what Lloyds were able to recover.
Date Type of Payment Payee Time 
(Approx)Amount Recovered 
Sum
12 February 2019 Account balance before Gs funds arrived was £420.69
12 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 111.02am £50,000
12 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 2 11.34am £50,000
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
Payment Payee 1 2.32pm £9,800
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 2.53pm £7,500
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 2.55pm £7,450
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 1 4.26pm £7,800
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 4.29pm £7,400
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 5.03pm £9,500 £2,286.58
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 7.21pm £7,000
12 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 8.07pm £7,250 £2,972.09
13 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 3 9.42am £50,000
13 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 49.42am £50,000
13 February 2019 Outgoing Faster 
PaymentPayee 4 11.24am £7,500 £179.4013 February 2019 Lloyds blocked account around 12.00pm funds remaining in the 
account at the time were £129,220.69.
14 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 58.30am £50,000 Payment 
returned as 
account 
blocked. 
14 February 2019 Incoming Faster 
Payment
(from G)  Payment 68.42am £50,000 Payment 
returned as 
account 
blocked. 
On 13 February 2019 Lloyds themselves intervened in account X based upon the activity it 
saw. This happened a few hours after payments 3 and 4 were received. This resulted in 
payments 5 and 6 not being accepted and being returned to Gs account with Barclays, and 
ultimately £134,658.76 derived from payments 1 to 4 being recovered as detailed in the table 
above and returned to Barclays in August 2019. So Gs outstanding loss in relation to the 
payments it made to account X is £65,341.24.
Ive reviewed the operation of the account, along with what was known to Lloyds about its 
customer and the intended and expected use of the account, and I agree with my colleague 
Ombudsmans findings that whilst the steps it took did prevent some of Gs loss, Lloyds 
ought to have identified the account activity as suspicious and intervened sooner than it did.
Albeit the point at which I think Lloyds ought to have intervened is different. 
So, of the loss outstanding, how much could Lloyds have reasonably prevented?
Naturally with the benefit of hindsight its easy to say Lloyds could have prevented all of it. 
But when reviewing such matters, I must think about what was known to Lloyds at the time  
not what we know today. I must also have regard to the significant volume of transactions 
that take place daily; it simply wouldnt be practical for Lloyds to stop and check each and 
every payment it accepts onto, or that leaves, its customers accounts  especially if its not 
unusual in the context of the account activity (or expected account activity). Its systems and 
controls have to strike a balance between monitoring accounts with a view to preventing 
fraud without unduly hindering its customers general use of their accounts. And even if I do 
think Lloyds should have intervened, I must also consider what intervention at that stage 
should have looked like (proportionality is key); and whether this wouldve made a 
difference, preventing subsequent losses.
The account was newly opened for business purposes, and as such receipt of money into 
the account in of itself is not unexpected, and in these specific circumstances I dont think 
there was a basis upon which I can fairly say Lloyds ought to have intervened on receipt of 
the payments into the account on 12 February 2019. However, I do think the size of the 
incoming payments should have fed into a heightened alertness about the account.
So with that in mind, Ive considered the payments leaving the account. And in the context of 
the nature of the account; the likely use of such an account; and with there being nothing 
obviously suspicious about where the payments were being sent, I dont think there was a 
basis upon which I can fairly conclude that the first two payments from the account would 
have given Lloyds enough of a cause for concern about possible misappropriation of funds. 
But Lloyds should have, in my opinion, acted when it was asked to make the third payment 
of £7,450 to payee 3. By this point I think Lloyds ought to have had concerns about the 
legitimacy of the activity on its customers account, since:-The account was relatively recently opened. Newly opened accounts can present a 
greater risk of being used in connection with fraud and scams.
-Two large payments, totalling over £17,000, to two different payees, had been made 
in the preceding 30 minutes. With the third, also to a different payee, which would 
have taken the total spend to just under £25,000 in just over 30 minutes.
-The payment to payee 3 was also being made to a financial business that is 
considered higher risk due to it providing pre-paid card account services. Its 
commonly known by banks that pre-paid card accounts are vehicles that fraudsters 
often use to disperse fraudulently obtained money. So, payments being made to 
financial businesses, that offer such services, present an additional risk to the 
transaction. This being something its monitoring systems ought to have identified. 
Further a sum of £7,450, in my opinion, is an unusually large sum to potentially be 
moving to a pre-paid card.
-And even if Lloyds were to argue in 2019 its monitoring systems werent set up in a 
way where it could have easily identified the nature of the payees business i.e., 
prepaid card account services. I still think the combination of large incoming credits 
on a newly opened account and the pattern of spending which followed was enough 
for Lloyds to have placed a freeze and block on the account at this earlier point. And 
instead, the above point about payee 3 would have emerged as part of its 
investigation into the account.
Had Lloyds intervened at this point and blocked the payment from leaving, in addition to the 
above, it would have also spotted other red flags:
-a beneficiary name mismatch on the incoming £50,000 payments; and
-that the activity observed on the account, even at this earlier point, differed from what 
Lloyds knew about its customer and expected use of the account.
So I think its fair to say that had Lloyds taken the step of blocking and investigating account 
X at an earlier point, excluding the first two payments, it could have prevented the loss of the 
remaining funds which credited the account. In my considerations of the linked complaint 
about Barclays, Im intending to find that Barclays was not at fault in relation to any of the 
payments sent to account X. As such Lloyds alone are responsible for the preventable loss 
of £48,041.24. This being the sum of Gs money it couldve stopped from being paid away 
(£182,700) less money it has recovered and returned (£134,658.76).
Ive also carefully considered whether this award should be reduced to reflect any 
contributory negligence on the part of G in relation to making the payments to account X  
and I dont think it should. It is clear that at the time of making the payments to account X, G 
believed the payments were being sent to the firm it was investing with. G has not been able 
to share with our service all the emails sent by the fraudsters that were purporting to be the 
party G believed it was communicating with. It says the technology which the fraudsters 
employed caused these emails to be deleted. It has however managed to share with us 
emails it obtained from the genuine firm that were sent, but never received, and one email 
that was sent by the fraudsters. The example email sent shows the email address used by 
the fraudsters was very similar to the genuine firm G was dealing with  there was just one 
letter difference  something which I wouldnt have reasonably expected G to have easily 
identified. All other aspects of the email had all the hallmarks of what G would have 
expected to see from the genuine firm. And the scam warnings given by Barclays when the 
payments were made, were online, and not pertinent to the scam G was falling victim to. 
Considering all the above, I dont think it can fairly be said that G was negligent when instructing the payments to account X.
Ive addressed whether any interest is payable further on in the section headed  Interest, 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and reimbursement of legal costs.
G thinks there were failures by Lloyds in the action it took once it had suspicions about the 
activity it observed (or as Ive found shouldve identified earlier) on account X that impacts 
the loss which then followed from the payments G made to the second account  account Y. 
Simply put, it says Lloyds ought to have shared its concerns (including the beneficiary name 
mismatch) about account X with Barclays, for it to have communicated this to G. Had it done 
so, the scam would have quickly unravelled, and G would not have transferred the remaining 
£250,000. For this reason, it argues that Lloyds can be held liable for all the losses arising 
from account Y. G has also questioned whether, in light of its suspicions and the return of 
funds to Barclays (in relation to account X), should Lloyds have gone further and contacted 
G to establish who it was paying and the purpose of the payments?
I understand why G has questioned this, but I dont think Lloyds ought to have done any of 
these things, as G is not its customer. At the relevant time, there were no obligations nor any 
requirements for a recipient bank to directly contact the payer of funds received into their 
customers account. Generally, if a recipient bank was to identify concerns, its role was 
limited to taking appropriate action on its own customers account. As part of its 
investigations, of course it may contact the remitting bank to obtain information about the 
purpose of the payments received into its customers accounts. But it is not responsible for 
the steps the payers bank takes (or fails to take).
I understand G feels strongly that whilst Barclays were materially at fault in the manner in 
which it made enquiries of G, this does not excuse Lloyds actions. It considers it to be highly 
relevant to know what information was passed between the banks prior to G making all the 
payments, to know what should have been shared with G. But sometimes information 
(particularly contemporaneous evidence) is not available, and the evidence that is, might be 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as is the case here. In such situations Im 
required to reach an outcome on the balance of probability. This means I have to decide 
what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available to me  
which is what I have done here. And in the circumstances of Gs case, whilst the evidence is 
limited and unclear about what exactly was communicated to Barclays, Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that it is most likely that Lloyds contacted Barclays on 13 February 2019 
asking it to verify the funds.
At the initial stages of Lloyds investigations into the operation of its customers accounts, I 
think it was sufficient for it to be making an enquiry to Barclays, asking it to confirm the 
nature of Gs payments to account X. I wouldnt reasonably have expected it to share any 
information about the account with Barclays at this stage. So my only criticism of Lloyds in 
relation to account X is that it ought to have blocked the account earlier than it did, and its 
failure to do so has resulted in a loss of some of the money G paid to account X.
Account Y
The table below shows when the funds arrived in account Y; when they were spent; and 
what Lloyds were able to recover.Date Type of 
PaymentPayee Time 
(Approx)Amount Recovered Sum
15 February 2019 Account balance before Gs funds arrived was £164.19
15 February 2019 Incoming 
Faster 
Payment
(from G)10.28am £50,000
15 February 2019 Incoming 
Faster 
Payment
(from G)10.34am £50,000
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
Payment Payee 1 12.02pm £14,500
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 12.04pm £14,250
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 1.29pm £9,500
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 1.54pm £13,200
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 3.27pm £14,200
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 4.43pm £7,500
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 1 5.56pm £9.750
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 5.58pm £7,498
15 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 7.03pm £8,999
15 February 2019 ATM 
Withdrawal£400
16 February 2019 Incoming 
Faster 
Payment
(from G)9.21am £50,000
16 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 10.47am £9,850
16 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 10.49am £14,700
16 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 1.39pm £9,50016 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 2.57pm £14,150
16 February 2019 Incoming 
Faster 
Payment
(from G)5.50pm £50,000
16 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 4 9.39pm £405
17 February 2019 Incoming 
Faster 
Payment
(from G)9.45am £50,000
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 3 11.30am £9,710 £23.82
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 11.31am £14,000
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 1 1.49pm £9,850
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 4 2.44pm £5,000
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 2.45pm £9,800
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 4 3.46pm £3,000
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 5.34pm £12,250
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 2 6.57pm £14,600 £43.29
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 4 7.27pm £9,900 £4005.54
17 February 2019 Outgoing 
Faster 
PaymentPayee 1 8.17pm £5,785 £5.01
17 February 2019 Debit Card 
Payment £7,866
18 February 2019 Lloyds blocked account funds remaining in the account at the time 
were £1.19. On 20 February 2019, G reported the fraud to Barclays, who notified Lloyds the same day, at 
which point only a small sum remained in account Y.
A total sum of £4078.85 has since been recovered out of the payments made to account Y 
and returned to G.
So Gs outstanding loss in relation to the payments it made to account Y is £245,921.15. 
Ive found Barclays could and should, with a proper scam warning, have prevented all 
payments to account Y. Accordingly it is responsible for a loss to G of £245,921.15. But to 
reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I must also think about 
Lloyds actions and whether it too could have reasonably prevented any of Gs loss arising 
from payments it made to account Y.
Ive reviewed all the activity that took place (after 31 January 2019) on account Y and I think 
with the exception of the first payment of £14,500 Lloyds should have prevented further 
funds from leaving that account. In this case, again, account Y was relatively newly opened 
for business purposes, with limited history of transactional activity before the arrival and 
spending of Gs funds. And in the context of the nature of the account; the likely use of such 
an account; and with there being nothing obviously suspicious about where the first payment 
was being sent, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the activity before and including the 
first payment leaving the account would have given Lloyds enough of a cause for concern 
where Id have expected it to have blocked the account. But I do think this activity should 
have flagged and fed into a heightened alertness about the account in question. And this 
should have, in my opinion, resulted in Lloyds intervening by blocking the account when it 
was asked to make the second payment to payee 2 as this was within minutes of the first 
payment being made and it was a sufficiently large sum being sent (significantly) to a 
pre-paid card account.
Had Lloyds intervened at this point (even just to make an enquiry), in addition to the above, it 
would have spotted other red flags, such as:
-a beneficiary name mismatch on the incoming £50,000 payments; and
-that the activity observed on the account differed from what Lloyds knew about its 
customer and expected use of the account.
So, in my opinion Lloyds and Barclays are both at fault and jointly responsible for a loss to G 
of £231,421.15.
Again, Ive carefully considered whether an award for this loss should be reduced to reflect 
any contributory negligence on the part of G in relation to the making of the payments to 
account Y  and I think it should. Ill explain why.
G has made a number of varied submissions in relation to what it thinks about a deduction 
for contributory negligence  most predicated on, and in response to, the thoughts of our 
Investigators and my Ombudsman colleague. Broadly speaking it ranges from no deduction 
from any redress that is due on the grounds of contributory negligence, to disagreeing with 
the 50% deduction for contributory negligence stating that it is inconsistent with the 
deduction made by the court in Singularis Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd 
[2019] UKSC 50 (Singularis) and that it should be, if at all, 25%. Even to G saying in 
response to the provisional decision issued by my Ombudsman colleague that it accepts that 
it has contributed by way of negligence to its loss, but thinks a reduction should only be 
made to its loss outstanding from payments it made to account X, not its loss outstanding 
from payments it made to account Y.With respect, as my findings markedly differ to those of my colleagues, I will not be 
addressing every point G has raised about the misapplication of contributory negligence. 
Instead, I will focus on my findings and explaining the reasons for why I think the award 
should be reduced and to what extent.
Firstly, the facts of this case are totally different to those in the Singularis case  so I dont 
agree that a direct parallel can be drawn. The purpose in citing this legal case is to highlight 
that there are circumstances where it might be appropriate to make a reduction on account 
of a claimants (here complainants) contributory negligence.
I note that apportionment of liability for contributory negligence in such circumstances may 
not always be confined to simply examining the blameworthiness of G but can also depend 
on other factors including the conduct of the respondents and the importance of their acts or 
omissions in causing the loss. But an Ombudsmans award of financial redress must be in 
an amount that he/she considers fair compensation for the loss or damage ... suffered by 
the complainant (s.229(2) FSMA 2000). So to be absolutely clear, here the award I intend 
on making is what I consider to be fair, and not applying the law (which, anyway, couldnt 
apply here because I am not considering two legal claims, let alone two legal claims based 
upon breaches of a legal duty of care).
With that being said, I agree with my colleague Ombudsman that I think its reasonable to 
have higher expectations of a micro-enterprise engaged in activity for commercial gain, such 
as G, compared to a consumer. And as a company which fairly regularly deals with 
movements of large sums of money, I also agree that its director can reasonably be 
expected to educate himself as to the risks he might come across in the course of his 
business (including scams). G says its director ought to be viewed more as a consumer or a 
layperson and has made submissions in support of this. Ive considered everything G has 
shared (throughout the time the case has been with our service), along with information that 
is available publicly about G, and I think its fair that the expectations on G as a limited 
company (including its director) are slightly higher.
G cannot provide a copy of the email it received from the fraudsters asking for the payment 
to be made to different account details. In its original submission G said it:
 had received, and believed, an email purportedly from [investment firm] (but in fact sent 
by the fraudsters) asserting that the original account was full and that future funds should 
be sent to a different account, for which details were provided.
It then went onto say:
 Barclays did not warn G that an email stating that a designated bank account was full 
was suspicious, and that it could have been an attempt by fraudsters to continue their fraud 
using a new account in circumstances where the account which the fraudsters had hitherto 
been using had fallen under suspicion from Lloyds on the previous day (14 February 2019), 
to the extent that Lloyds has returned payments to that account.I appreciate it has subsequently explained that G was given a plausible explanation for the 
change in the beneficiary account details, namely that the first investment opportunity had 
been fully subscribed and another had opened up, requiring the use of a different account. 
But this was in response to our Investigator and Ombudsman referring to this evidence as 
part of their reasoning for making a deduction for contributory negligence. And if it were true 
that the investment opportunity was full (i.e. fully subscribed) and that a new investment 
opportunity of a similar nature had opened but required a different bank account, given the 
nature of the investment G was partaking in Id reasonably have expected it to have been 
issued with a revised contract/agreement and as a minimum a new loan note with the terms 
of the new investment opportunity. G hasnt provided any such evidence in support of its 
claim.
In the absence of the email G received containing the new account details or any evidence 
which might corroborate the explanation G has more recently provided Im more persuaded 
by Gs initial submissions as to the reason for the change of account. And I think its most 
likely that in response to payments 5 and 6 to account X being returned G was simply told 
that the original account was full and that future funds should be directed to new account 
details. And even if G understood this to be that the subscription was full that still wouldnt 
have explained why payments were returned by Lloyds  as Id expect G to know that a 
bank account would not get full.
I think its reasonable to expect an experienced business, like G, who regularly invests in this 
way to realise that something isnt right when: unexpectedly being told an account is full; 
payments were returned by the recipient bank without explanation; and being questioned by 
Barclays about the nature of the payments. I think altogether there was enough going on that 
G reasonably ought to have had concerns at the time of instructing the payments to 
account Y and it should have looked into the reason for the change of account details before 
making these payments. I think any such reasonable investigation by G would most likely 
have led to its uncovering the fraud.
So I must have regard for Gs share of responsibility in the loss it has suffered. And whilst 
Ive held G to a slightly higher level due to the nature of its business and the specific 
circumstances of this scam, I do acknowledge that there remains an imbalance in knowledge 
and experience between G and the banks. So in deciding how much the reduction for Gs 
negligence should be, I have taken into account the differing levels of experience between G 
and the banks as well as the banks obligation to prevent fraud and scams. Taking all of this 
together I think in the circumstances of this case a reduction of 25% for Gs share in the 
responsibility for the loss of £231,421.15 that both Lloyds and Barclays are also responsible 
for is fair.
Then comes the question of apportionment of the award and what each respondent should 
fairly be directed to pay. And in this case, I think it would be appropriate for the award to be 
split equally as both Lloyds and Barclays have failed in what could and should have 
reasonably been expected of them as regulated firms and I cant see that either of them is 
more at fault than the other (albeit for different reasons) in respect of Gs loss, or more the 
cause of it.
So, the total sum I intend on directing Lloyds to pay G for losses arising from payments sent 
to account Y is £86,782.93. This figure is derived in the following way:
In relation to account Y, the loss which both Lloyds and Barclays couldve prevented is 
£231,421.15, a 25% reduction for contributory negligence means £173,565.86 is payable 
and Im intending to apportion that as a 50/50 split between Lloyds and Barclays with each 
paying £86,782.93.Again, Ive addressed whether any interest is payable further on in the section headed  
Interest, compensation for distress and inconvenience and reimbursement of legal costs.
Sharing of recipient (payee) details
Part of Gs complaint is that Lloyds has failed to share with it the recipient accountholders 
details.
Regulation 90 of the PSRs says the following:
90. Incorrect unique identifiers
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment 
order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider involved 
in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(2) Where the unique identifier provided by the payment service user is incorrect, the 
payment service provider is not liable under regulation 91 or 92 for non-execution or 
defective execution of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider
(a) must make reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment transaction; 
and 
(b) may, if agreed in the framework contract, charge the payment service user for any such
recovery.
(3) The payee's payment service provider must co-operate with the payer's payment service 
provider in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by providing to the payer's payment 
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.
(4) If the payer's payment service provider is unable to recover the funds it must, on receipt 
of a written request, provide to the payer all available relevant information in order for the 
payer to claim repayment of the funds.
(5) Where the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a) (information required prior to the conclusion of a single payment service 
contract) or paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 (prior general information for framework 
contracts), the payment service provider is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service user.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that G entered incorrect 
unique identifiers for the purposes of triggering the banks respective duties under 
Regulations 90(2) to 90(4). I say this because G was due to make payments to invest in a 
genuine opportunity. The payment had been agreed and was expected. The emails between 
G and the firm it was dealing with were intercepted, and details changed. So here I consider 
the investment firms legitimate bank details to be the correct unique identifier. I say this 
because  but for the interception and changing of account details  G would've sent the 
payments to the investment firms legitimate details.
As an incorrect unique identifier has been entered when making the payment, Lloyds as the 
payees PSP have a statutory obligation under regulation 90(3) of the PSRs, which requires 
it to co-operate with the payer's PSP in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by 
providing to the payer's PSP all relevant information for the collection of funds.Lloyds will have owed its customers, X and Y, a contractual duty of confidentiality. But that 
duty isnt unqualified, and it doesnt apply where a bank is legally compelled to make 
disclosure: Tournier v National Provincial and Union Bank of England [1924] 1 KB 461.
Im aware also and have taken into consideration that data controllers such as Lloyds are 
required to comply with the principles under the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) and 
UKs General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR). And if they do not have a lawful basis 
for holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that information to a 
third party) they will be in breach of DPA 2018 and UK GDPR, and any individual whose 
privacy rights have been affected may have a number of rights against them. However, 
individual privacy rights are not absolute, and the organisation holding the data may have a 
lawful basis for providing it to a third party in a way that would otherwise be unlawful if the 
above exemption did not apply.
The regulations set out above require disclosure of data, so Lloyds will therefore have a 
lawful basis for disclosure, being compelled to do so under regulation 90(3)  but only to the 
payers PSP and where it can be said that it did so to assist the payers PSP in its effort to 
recover the payers funds. And I think any disclosure of information would be limited to only 
that which is necessary to comply with regulation 90(3). That information may depend on the 
circumstances but will normally include the recipient accountholders name and an address 
at which a legal notice can be served, as this is normally all that is required to start civil 
proceedings to claim repayment of funds.
I can see G has asked both Lloyds and Barclays for information about the recipient 
accountholders. But where third-party information has been requested directly by G, rather 
than by Barclays, Lloyds is bound by its contractual duty of confidentiality and privacy laws, 
and it ordinarily would not have a legal basis upon which it can share this information directly 
with G. I too havent seen any evidence that Barclays have requested this information from 
Lloyds. So in such circumstances I cant say that Lloyds have done anything wrong by not 
sharing the recipient accountholders details.
Interest, compensation for distress and inconvenience and reimbursement of legal costs
Given my finding above that Lloyds should refund G for some of the loss it has suffered, I 
next need to consider what interest (if any) Lloyds should add to this amount to compensate 
G for the period it was without these funds. Our usual approach where the cost of being 
deprived of the funds is intangible, is to apply a simple interest rate of 8% broadly to reflect 
the opportunity cost of being without the funds.
The previous Ombudsman thought no provision for interest was required: He said: it seems 
that G were able to borrow the funds (at no cost to itself) to meet its investment obligations. 
As such Im not persuaded that G have suffered a loss by being without those funds and I 
dont deem an interest award to be appropriate.
In response to which, G points out that it is contrary to the practice of our service not to 
include an award of interest where it is established that a loss has been suffered.
Ive considered the evidence afresh and I dont think that I can reasonably conclude that G 
suffered no loss because of the deprivation of the funds I intend on awarding for the period 
up to acceptance (if it chooses to) of my final decision or resulting from not having access to 
the recovered funds (which also could have been prevented).G has been without what I consider a significant sum of money for long periods of time. I 
cannot be certain about the precise cost to G of being deprived of this money because it 
might have used the funds in a variety of ways. The nature of Gs business is to invest when 
an opportunity arises. So, on balance, Im satisfied that it would have done something with 
those funds. And if it were to say it would have invested the money elsewhere, now I think 
several years on, it would be difficult to say with any certainty what exactly G would have 
invested in over time (potentially with any number of reinvestments of proceeds) and the 
return it would have realistically achieved. So, without any compelling reason to depart from 
our usual approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that Lloyds pays G simple interest at 
8% p.a. on the amounts to be refunded.
I also think Lloyds should pay simple interest at 8% p.a. on the sum (£134,658.76) it was 
able to recover and return in relation to the funds G paid to account X from the date Barclays 
sent it notification of fraud (20 February 2019) up to (but not including) the date it returned 
those funds to Barclays. I say this because the Authorised Push Payment (APP) Voluntary 
Best Practice Standards issued by UK Finance and Financial Fraud Action UK in April 2018, 
which sets out the standards for sending and receiving banks to follow when processing a 
claim of APP fraud say that a receiving bank:
-should have adequate resource available to act immediately upon receipt of 
notification of APP fraud;
-be responsible for the investigation of the recipient account; 
-and should, subject to its investigation, repatriate identified funds back to the sending 
bank.
From what Ive seen Lloyds concluded its investigation the same day it received APP 
notification from Barclays and removed the funds which remained (£129,220.69), from 
account X. Yet there was, without an acceptable explanation, a delay of several months in 
returning those funds back to Barclays. In addition to this I think all the funds that Lloyds 
were able to recover in relation to account X would have remained in the account had Lloyds 
done what Id have expected it to have done (as explained in my findings set out above). 
And the latter reasoning forms the basis of me asking Lloyds to pay interest on the total sum 
recovered (and not simply the sum which remained in the account) by Lloyds.
For clarification, my findings about the interest payable on (1) the sum recovered from 
account X for the period between Lloyds returning the funds to Barclays and these being 
received by G and (2) any interest payable on the sum recovered from account Y is covered 
in my intended decision about Gs complaint against Barclays.
G is a distinct and separate legal entity. It is the eligible complainant. So I can only consider 
the impact on the entity itself, rather than the people bringing its complaint. And as G isnt an 
individual person, it cant experience distress, pain or suffering. But it can experience 
inconvenience and damage to its reputation. So for completeness Ive considered whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to pay G a compensatory award. In doing so, 
Ive taken into account that Barclays has already paid G £300 in compensation for delays, 
poor service and lack of communication, and that Gs submissions have not commented on 
such matters in any great detail. With that in mind, Ive thought about the overall impact of 
Lloyds wrongdoings on G and whether it can be concluded that these caused further 
inconvenience or damage to its reputation where I think it would be fair to make a direction 
that awards G additional compensation. But from what Ive seen I dont think it did. So I wont 
be asking Lloyds to pay anything further.And finally, we rarely think it necessary for professional costs to be incurred to raise a 
complaint with a regulated financial business or to bring a complaint to this service. Here, 
appointing a professional was something G has chosen to do, rather than a case of where it 
was a necessity. So I do not intend on asking Lloyds to reimburse G for the legal costs it has 
incurred in bringing this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either G 
or Lloyds Bank PLC Im intending to uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I intend to direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay G:
-£86,782.93 (preventable losses from account Y) together with 8% simple interest p.a. 
Interest should be paid from the mid-date of the payments that could have been 
prevented, 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
-£48,041.24 (preventable losses from account X) together with 8% simple interest p.a. 
Interest should be paid from 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
-8% simple interest p.a. on the sum recovered from the payments made to account X 
(£134,658.76) for the period between the 16 February 2019, up to (but not including) 
the date it returned those funds to Barclays.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and/or information they want me to 
consider. 
Lloyds responded to say that it would like to re-iterate that the transactions in question took 
place in 2019, before the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). It says the initial deposits to either account would not have aroused 
suspicion. It says its security systems were triggered promptly in both instances resulting in 
accounts X and Y being blocked before Barclays notified it of any fraud. It is unfortunate 
these blocks were not quick enough to protect the entirety of the funds paid by G, however 
its prompt action was able to prevent a large proportion of the funds being lost. Lloyds said it 
would not seek to challenge the Ombudsmans view further nor does it have any additional 
information to supply. 
G responded to say it accepts my provisional decision. 
So now that both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note in response to my provisional decision Lloyds have highlighted that Gs payments 
pre-date the CRM Code. Id like to assure Lloyds that I am fully aware that the disputed 
payments are not subject to the CRM Code. As explained in my provisional decision, I have 
asked Lloyds to refund some of Gs losses, as I think it couldve done more under its 
regulatory obligations to prevent those. Ive also explained why I think its fair and 
reasonable that Lloyds and Barclays split any loss (after factoring in any reduction which 
ought to be made for Gs negligence) which they both couldve prevented. To be absolutely 
clear Im not asking Lloyds or Barclays to reimburse G under the CRM Code. I appreciate Lloyds have said that the incoming payments wouldnt have aroused suspicion. 
But I still remain of the opinion that they ought to have. As Ive already set out in greater 
detail in my provisional decision, there are a number of regulatory obligations placed on 
banks such as Lloyds to prevent their accounts being used to launder money and/or further 
any other kinds of financial crime. Based on this, my view remains, it is reasonable to expect 
Lloyds to have systems that gave it a sound understanding of its customers business, so far 
as this concerned the purpose and nature of the banking relationship, and for monitoring 
accounts for unexpected and potentially suspicious transactions (both incoming and 
outgoing) that might be connected to money laundering or other kinds of financial crime and 
for promptly taking action where such transactions are detected. Based on what was known 
to Lloyds about the intended use of the accounts which received Gs funds, I still think the 
size of the incoming payments ought to have flagged and fed into a heightened alertness 
about the accounts.  
I appreciate, and do acknowledge that Lloyds systems did trigger, but in my opinion they 
ought to have done so at an earlier point, for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional 
decision. 
As neither party has put forward any new evidence, or information which changes my mind. I 
see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds Bank PLC must pay G:
- £86,782.93 (preventable losses from account Y) together with 8% simple interest p.a. 
Interest should be paid from the mid-date of the payments that could have been 
prevented, 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
- £48,041.24 (preventable losses from account X) together with 8% simple interest p.a. 
Interest should be paid from 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
- 8% simple interest p.a. on the sum recovered from the payments made to account X 
(£134,658.76) for the period between the 16 February 2019, up to (but not including) 
the date it returned those funds to Barclays.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
direct Lloyds Bank PLC to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section of this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman