DRN-3030790
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold that PPI policy. 
I know that when PPI was sold, Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax. So to keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Es 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Halifaxs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs E paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
Mrs E told us she cant remember how PPI came to be sold to her. Ive seen a copy of the 
paperwork thats available from the time and I can see that the cover was sold during a face 
to face meeting in a Halifax branch. I cant know what was said during that meeting, and Mrs 
E doesnt remember it taking place. So to help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive mainly considered the electronic and documentary evidence thats available 
from the point of sale. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Mrs E would have known PPI was optional and she 
could have refused it if she didnt want the cover. I can see that in order for the policy to be 
added to her account, Mrs E had to tick a box to say she wanted PPI. She also had to sign 
to confirm that choice. I think the wording on the form is sufficiently clear such that if Mrs E 
didnt want cover, shed have known just to leave it blank. Given what the paperwork says, I 
think the person Mrs E met with at Halifax also made the optional nature of the cover clear.  
Those representing Mrs E argued that PPI was presented to Mrs E as part of a package. It is 
not immediately clear to me how Mrs E would have been able to recall such a detail if she 
cannot remember how cover had been sold. But in any event, if PPI was presented as part 
of a package, I think Mrs E would have most likely queried why she had to agree to it 
separately if it was presented as part and parcel of her credit card. The evidence doesnt 
suggest she did. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale as I can see that Halifax completed a demands and 
needs questionnaire. That means Halifax had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs E. And 
the evidence about Mrs Es circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. In arriving at this conclusion, Ive checked the 
terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought carefully about what we know about 
Mrs Es personal circumstances from the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mrs Es credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was off sick or if she was made 
redundant for up to 12 months for each claim. Her balance would have been repaid in full in 
the unfortunate event of her death or if she became critically ill. 
I can see that Mrs E had some sick pay, but the evidence Ive seen suggested the PPI would 
have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. Given how long shed been in her job, I think the 
PPI would have lasted for longer than her redundancy entitlement as well. Mrs E told us that 
shed have been entitled to a death in service payment from her employer. But that would 
have only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death. She wouldnt have been paid a 
death in service benefit if she was off sick or if she lost her job. I appreciate Mrs E told us 
that a family member would have been able to help her out if she ran into financial difficulty. 
And I dont doubt it would have been the intention of that family member to assist in such 
circumstances. But theres no guarantee that help would have been available to Mrs E as 
and when she needed it. 
I can see that Mrs E had been treated for a mental health condition around nine years before 
the PPI was sold to her. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she still had difficulties with 
her health when the cover was sold. So I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to recommend this cover. I can see there were some additional limitations on mental health and back 
conditions in terms and conditions. But I dont think Mrs E would have reasonably expected 
to make a claim for these things if she wasnt having ongoing treatment. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Es employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. With all of this in 
mind, Im satisfied the recommendation Halifax made was suitable in Mrs Es circumstances. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs E enough information about the PPI so she could 
decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. It is possible that the information 
Halifax gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that 
she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs E as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what she 
reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was given. It also looks like it 
was affordable. On that basis, I can see how it could have been useful for her if she became 
unwell or if she lost her job. I cant reasonably say she would have declined the cover if 
Halifax had given her more or better information about the cover.  
I accept that the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions. But as I said above, in light of Mrs Es circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite those limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I 
think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs E would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could have 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the point of sale. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And 
in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mrs E about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mrs E was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs E because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs E should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs E about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that these 
things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Mrs E wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had she known about the level of commission. It was further submitted that Mrs E 
should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipThe FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of commission 
before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mrs E paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs E 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Halifax had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mrs E an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman