DRN-2743312
The complaint
Mr R complains about numerous issues he has had with HSBC UK Bank Plc including, in 
particular, the closure of his credit card account and HSBC sending him promotional material 
he didnt want.
What happened
In 2020 Mr R raised a number of complaints about various issues. HSBC has sent him a 
total of 14 final response letters. One of Mr Rs complaints is that HSBC stopped engaging 
with him about a complaint after it had sent him its final response. Another complaint issue is 
that HSBC closed his credit card account without telling him. HSBC said it had closed the 
account because he had been complaining so much, and also for intimidating its staff.
Other complaint issues are:
HSBC kept sending him promotional marketing material after he had asked it to stop 
in August 2019. Mr R disagrees with HSBCs definition of marketing material.
HSBC didnt call him back, kept him on the phone for too long during calls, 
disconnected some calls, and used his name on another call even though it had not 
asked him any security questions. One call handler had been threatening.
HSBC failed to keep its promise to refund a balance transfer fee.
HSBC told him wrong information about his account balance and about its complaint 
handling timescales.
A manager had listened in on Mr Rs call with another member of staff, which Mr R 
said was a breach of data protection laws.
HSBC failed to acknowledge his complaint in time.
There was conflicting information about the date on which his account had been 
closed.
HSBC apologised for some of these matters and paid Mr R £345 compensation. But it did 
not agree with all of his complaints. It said it had arranged to stop sending him marketing 
material, but that the material it had continued to send him was not marketing material but 
service material. Although HSBC had paid him compensation for calls which were 
disconnected by accident or for unknown reasons, there had been one call which it had 
ended on purpose because Mr R had not allowed the call handler to speak and had not been 
listening. It denied that anyone had threatened him.
Mr R brought these complaints to our Service, where they were dealt with together as one 
complaint. But our investigator did not uphold it. He thought that HSBC had already paid 
Mr R fair compensation for the complaints it had upheld. He said that complaints about 
complaint-handling fell outside of our Services jurisdiction. He thought that HSBC was 
entitled to decide for itself what it considered to be marketing information and what was not, 
and he would not interfere with that. He said that HSBC had been entitled to close the credit 
card account, and in any event this had had no impact on Mr R as he had not been using the 
card and it had had a nil balance. He did not agree that a call handler had spoken to Mr R in 
a threatening manner, and said she had only raised a voice a little because Mr R hadnt 
been letting her speak. He was unable to ascertain precisely when the account had been 
closed.
Mr R did not accept that opinion, and so this case has been referred to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, in the chapter of 
the FCA Handbook entitled Dispute Resolution: Complaints. In brief summary, these rules 
say that our Service has power to consider complaints about the provision of, or failure to 
provide, a financial service. The rules go on to give an exhaustive list of financial services or 
activities which may be the subject of a complaint.1
I do not think that a complaint about complaint handling constitutes a complaint about the 
provision of a financial service, even when the underlying complaint was itself about a 
financial service. That is one degree removed from a complaint about a financial service, 
and so I dont think that falls within our jurisdiction. In coming to this conclusion, I have taken 
into account the judgement of the High Court in the case of R (Mazarona Properties Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 1135 (Admin).
It follows that I cannot consider Mr Rs complaints about the following matters:
What HSBC told him about its timescales for dealing with his complaint,
Not responding on time or at all to his complaints,
Problems arising during phone calls which Mr R made only for the purpose of 
complaining,
HSBC refusing to discuss a complaint with Mr R after it had issued its final response 
to that complaint.
I think that the compensation that HSBC paid to Mr R for the complaints it upheld was fair. In 
particular, HSBC paid him £60 compensation just because it had failed to refund him a fee of 
£10. I think that was generous, and more than I would have awarded if HSBC had done 
nothing. HSBC paid a total of £250 for issues arising during phone calls (other than calls to 
the complaints department), such as accidentally disconnecting calls, calls which took too 
long, incorrect information given on calls, and not following its security procedures on one 
call. I think that these payments are in line with what our Service would typically award for 
such matters, and that overall Mr R has been compensated fairly for them.
I now turn to the complaints which HSBC did not uphold. I dont think there is anything wrong 
with a manager listening in to a call between a customer and a call handler. That seems to 
me like something which would fall within the reasonable duties of a manager in a call 
centre.
The marketing letters which Mr R complained about receiving were about balance transfers, 
which he did not wish to receive because he found that they tempted him to get into debt. He 
had opted out of marketing. HSBC accepts that these letters were sent, but denies that they 
were marketing; it insists that they were service mailing. I dont agree that this Service does 
not have power to determine whether HSBC is right or wrong about that question; I think we 
can review its stance on that. However, I dont think that it was unreasonable of HSBC to 
categorise information about balance transfers, when it is sent to someone who already has 
1 See https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/3.htmlan HSBC credit card, as service mailing rather than as marketing. That is because its 
purpose is not to induce someone to get an HSBC credit card. Rather, it is to inform a 
customer about something they can do with the card they already have. Therefore I do not 
uphold Mr Rs complaint about that.
As well as the complaints I have already described, HSBC says it paid Mr R over £1,000 for 
complaints he raised in 2019. Given the volume of complaints which he has made, its not 
really surprising that HSBC eventually decided that it had had enough, and decided to close 
his credit card account. However, this should not have been done without telling him. HSBC 
investigated that issue, and was unable to find a record of anyone telling Mr R that his 
account was being closed. It therefore assumed that it had failed to tell him, and apologised, 
but did not pay him compensation.
HSBC later told our investigator that it did not need to give Mr R notice of the account 
closure, because its terms and conditions say that an account can be closed without notice if 
a customer harasses the banks staff. HSBC argued that Mr R had done that, not just 
because of the volume of phone calls he had made, but also because of how he had treated 
call handlers on the calls. However, I think the terms and conditions only mean that HSBC 
can close an account without prior notice. They do not mean that the bank can secretly close 
an account without telling the customer what it has done, and then let him discover it for 
himself. The bank has to let him know.
For that reason, I think that HSBCs failure to tell Mr R it had closed his account was an 
error, and it is the sort of error which would normally deserve compensation, so I have 
considered whether HSBC should have done more than just apologise. However, I agree 
with our investigator that the impact on Mr R was minimal. He was not using the card, and 
there was no balance to pay off. So while I am sure the discovery that the account had been 
closed must have been annoying, I dont think it was really inconvenient, and no financial 
hardship was caused. I cannot fine HSBC as a punishment for making a mistake, I can only 
compensate. On balance, I dont think that this error requires financial compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman