The complaint
Miss J complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) transferred premium bonds 
to a different account when she turned 16.
Ms O brings this complaint on behalf of her daughter, Miss J. 
What happened
In November 2018 Ms O purchased premium bonds on behalf of her daughter, Miss J. The 
premium bonds were held in Ms Os account after the purchase went through. In November 
2019 NS&I moved the premium bonds into an account in Miss Js sole name. NS&I has 
explained that when a customer turns 16 they become responsible for their own 
investments. 
Ms O complained and explained she had a court order that said she was responsible for 
managing her daughters financial affairs until she turns 18. NS&I didnt agree an error had 
been made. NS&I said it wrote to Miss J, the owner of the premium bonds, in November 
2019 and asked her to get in touch. NS&I also said Miss J could register to access her 
account online or over the phone by completing a registration form. NS&I didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
On Miss Js behalf, Ms O referred the complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator said NS&I had acted in line with the account terms. They also 
said the court order didnt apply to NS&I. Ms O asked to appeal and said she was concerned 
that both she and Miss J should have been told about the transfer before the premium bonds 
were moved. Ms O said she wasnt aware that the premium bonds would be transferred to 
Miss Os account on her 16th birthday and that she would have acted differently if shed 
known. Ms O also said NS&Is actions meant there was a two month period after Miss Js 
birthday when it wasnt possible to gain access to the funds. 
As Ms O asked to appeal this complaint its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Ms O is concerned and its clear she didnt expect for the premium 
bonds to be transferred to Miss Js own account on her 16th birthday. Ive looked at the court 
order Ms O has sent in and can see she is responsible for managing Miss Js financial affairs 
until she turns 18. I dont doubt that Ms O expected the premium bonds to have remained 
under her management until that time. But, I havent found that NS&I has made a mistake or 
treated Miss J unfairly in this case. 
DRN-1686780Ive looked at the information provided by NS&I when Ms O opened the account and I agree 
it doesnt appear to specifically state the premium bonds will fall under the premium bond 
holders control when they turn 16. But the account information does say that premium 
bonds can only be bought for on a childs behalf unless there is a power of attorney in place. 
Ive also looked at NS&Is website to see what information is available and found 
confirmation that when a premium bond holder turns 16 they become responsible for their 
own account. 
I think its reasonable to note that there has been no financial loss in this case. The premium 
bonds were always owned by Miss J but controlled via Ms Os account. Miss J hasnt lost out 
because of NS&Is policy of transferring control when premium bond holders turn 16. 
Ms O has pointed to the court order to demonstrate she is in charge of her daughters 
financial affairs. But, as the investigator said, NS&I isnt party to the court order and isnt 
bound by its terms. The court order relates to Miss J and Ms O, not NS&I. 
Ms O says NS&Is actions led to a delay in Miss J gaining access to her funds. But I can see 
NS&I wrote to Miss J in November 2019 and asked her to complete a registration form, 
including a witnessed signature. But when the registration form was returned, NS&I had to 
send it back as the signature hadnt been witnessed. NS&I received a correctly completed 
registration form on 16 December 2019 and activated Miss Js online account on 20 
December 2019. I havent found an unreasonable level of delay by NS&I here. 
NS&I says Ms O can continue to manage Miss Js premium bonds if she obtains and 
forwards a Power of Attorney. Miss J will need to decide how to proceed but if she doesnt 
give Power of Attorney to Ms O the premium bonds will remain in her account. 
I'm satisfied NS&I has dealt with Miss J's complaint fairly, so I'm not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman