DRN-3105258
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont do more to help him recover a 
payment made on his Nationwide credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a payment for around £1,400 on his Nationwide Visa credit card in April 2019. At 
the time Mr C believed he was making a cryptocurrency investment through a broker hed 
first discovered on social media. This turned out to be a scam and Mr Cs loss extends well 
beyond the payment made using his Nationwide card, but this complaint is solely about this 
one payment. 
Mr C has referenced several codes of practice and parts of industry guidance to suggest 
why he thinks Nationwide ought to have done more. Ive considered all of these, but Ill be 
keeping my findings to what I think is relevant to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Sometimes there can be spending on a card which might be indicative of either the card 
being compromised, or of the accountholder being in the process of being a victim of fraud. 
But I dont think there was any plausible reason why Nationwide ought to have stopped the 
single payment that Mr C made on his credit card at the relevant time.
Once Mr C reported to Nationwide that his payment was made as the result of fraud, I can 
see that they asked Mr C for the relevant information to enable them to raise a chargeback 
with the merchant. But in these circumstances, Nationwide are bound by the requirements of 
the scheme operators (VISA in this case) rules. Without the required information, there is no 
reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding. 
Mr C wasnt able to provide the required information. I appreciate this wasnt his fault as by 
that point the information was likely not available to him. But this doesnt change the rules of 
the scheme which Nationwide must follow. Given this, I think Nationwides decision not to 
raise a chargeback was fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator also considered whether Nationwide ought to have raised a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have 
been an unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr C), creditor (Nationwide) and the supplier 
(In this case the merchant that Ill refer to as O). And any claim being made would have to 
have related to a breach of contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr C and O in 
relation to a contract that was funded by the Nationwide credit card. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to O. Mr C has provided a receipt which 
purports to be from a payment processor with O as the merchant listed. But on his credit 
card statement the payment was shown as going to a different business. And there is 
nothing to link that other business to O. As such, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to 
support that the debtor creditor supplier chain was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise 
Nationwide for not raising a claim under Section 75. 
Im sorry Mr C lost this money as the result of a scam. But Im not persuaded that there is a 
reasonable basis upon which I can tell Nationwide to reimburse his loss. And whilst I 
appreciate this wasnt a main part of his complaint, Nationwide sent Mr C a cheque for £40 
in relation to some customer service failings when handling this matter. For completeness, I 
think that is a fair amount to compensate for the impact of any service failings and Im not 
going to direct that it should be increased. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman