DRN-3871555
The complaint
Miss K, in her capacity as the director of a limited company K, complains that Revolut Ltd 
wont refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In August 2022, Miss K received a call from someone purporting to be from Revolut. 
The individual told her that someone had attempted to make a payment using Apple 
Pay and her business account needed to be secured. Miss K states that the caller 
already had a lot of information. Under the guise of safeguarding the account, Miss K 
followed the callers instructions and shared the information that was requested.
The fraudsters made payments totalling just over £28,000 from Ks Revolut account. 
Majority of the transactions were made in-store through Apple Pay and two were 
processed online. Later that day, Miss K saw emails from Revolut about declined 
transactions and realised that money had been fraudulently taken from Ks account. 
She immediately reported this to Revolut. It said it was unable to present a 
chargeback as all the disputed transactions had been processed using an authorised 
device. Revolut declined to reimburse the money as it believed Miss K was liable for 
the loss, given that she allowed third-party access to the account by sharing 
information. 
The matter was referred to our service and our investigator didnt agree with Revolut 
that K should be held liable. They recommended it to refund all the transactions 
along with interest and pay £100 compensation. Revolut disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The starting point for any complaint about unauthorised transactions is the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Broadly speaking, K is responsible for any 
payments Miss K  acting on its behalf  has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to). And K isnt liable for payments it didnt 
authorise, unless Miss K failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep the account security details safe. 
The investigators view was that the payments were unauthorised. I cant see that 
Revolut has explicitly disagreed with this finding; its response to the view has 
focused on negligence on Miss Ks part in keeping the account credentials safe. 
Nonetheless, Ive first thought about whether the payments were authorised. For a 
payment to be authorised, Revolut must show that it was authenticated correctly and 
why it thinks Miss K consented to it. 
Ive looked at Revoluts business account terms and conditions, and they dont 
specify the precise form and procedure for making an Apple Pay or online payment. 
The likely steps needed for an Apple Pay payment were presenting the Apple Pay 
enabled device and using FaceID/TouchID/passcode to confirm. And for the online 
payments, the likely steps were entering the card information, selecting pay, and if 
prompted to 3DSecure  confirming those payments within the banking app. Its 
unclear from the available information whether in-app verification was requested for 
either of the online payments.
The payments may have been authenticated correctly but having considered the 
available information, Im not persuaded that Miss K consented to them or to 
someone else making them on her behalf. Firstly, she states that her mobile phone 
works on the Android operating system and she doesnt own an iPhone. Im not 
aware that it is possible to set up Apple Pay on an Android device. Secondly, her 
actions were that of someone who was intending to protect their money from fraud. 
Not consenting to someone else making payments on their behalf. Ill explain why.
  
Miss K received a call from someone impersonating Revolut. The caller created a 
sense of panic and Miss K says that she did notice an attempt to use her card when 
she checked the mobile app. The scammer purported to be from her trusted bank 
and was already aware of this attempt. And, according to Miss K, they already knew 
information about her and the account. Miss K genuinely believed that shed been 
contacted by Revolut and that it was taking steps to safeguard her money. 
As Miss K was then satisfied that she was communicating with her bank, I cant fairly 
say that it was unreasonable that she complied with the callers request to provide 
the verification code to secure the account. I think that many people would have 
followed the instructions and complied with what they were being asked. Especially in 
the context of (in their mind) protecting their money from fraudsters. Indeed, weve 
seen many others whove acted in the same way that Miss K did. 
Revolut has said that Miss K also provided her card details. Weve asked her about 
this, and she only remembers being asked to share the verification code. Miss Ks 
been consistent in her testimony to Revolut and this service that the caller quoted the 
last four digits of the card in question to her. Its unclear how they already had this 
information, but Im persuaded more by what Miss K has said all along. Namely, that 
she only gave out the verification code during the call.
Revolut says it is obvious that the verification code is for verifying Apple Pay and not 
for deactivating Apple Pay as Miss K says the caller told her. I dont think it is that 
obvious. The text message reads, Revolut verification code for Apple Pay. I dont 
think this makes it clear enough that the code is for activation or setting up of Apple 
Pay. It can also be read as verification that a request or instruction has been received 
in relation to Apple Pay (regardless of whether that request is to install, uninstall, or 
approve a payment using that method). 
Ive seen the warning in Revoluts text message containing the verification code that 
says to never share it with anyone. But it looks like Miss K was acting quickly, so I 
can see how she may have missed this and focused more on the instructions she was given from someone who she thought was trying to help. I dont think Miss Ks 
actions in that moment mean that she seriously disregarded an obvious risk. I dont 
think her actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have done in the 
same circumstances such that I think they amount to gross negligence  the test 
thats relevant here.
Overall, I find that K isnt liable for the transactions in dispute. This is because they 
werent authorised by Miss K and she didnt fail with intent or gross negligence to 
keep the security details safe. Revolut ought to have refunded the transactions much 
sooner. Miss K has told us that the cashflow problems have financially strained Ks 
operations. Shes also told us about how this situation has impacted her personally. 
Given that the transactions were made from a business account, Im only limited to 
considering the impact on Miss Ks business and not her personally. Having given 
this a lot of thought, I consider the amount of £100 that the investigator 
recommended in their view fairly recognised the inconvenience K has been put 
through because of this delay.
Putting things right
To put matters right for K, Revolut Ltd needs to:
Refund all the disputed transactions;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and
Pay K £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Revolut Ltd 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K  on behalf 
of K  to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman