DRN-2642388
The complaint
Ms C complains that Godiva Mortgages Limited didnt contact her when her buy to let 
mortgage product ended. Shed like it to refund some of the interest it applied while her 
mortgage was on its standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Ms C has a buy to let mortgage with Godiva. She took out a fixed interest rate product which 
ended in January 2020. Ms C says she had many things to deal with, including the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, and didnt realise her mortgage was on Godivas SVR until August 
2020. She says shes overpaid by about £4,000 and would like this refunded. 
Ms C moved house in mid-2019. She didnt give Godiva her new address until August 2020. 
She says Godiva should have contacted her by email to remind her to take out a new 
product. Ms C says Godivas terms are unclear as, while they require her to update her 
correspondence address, they dont say this means a postal address.
Our investigator said Godiva applied interest in accordance with the terms of the mortgage. 
It wrote to Ms C when her product ended and couldnt have known shed moved house. The 
investigator said Godiva hadnt made an error and it wasnt fair to ask it to refund any 
interest.
Ms C didnt agree. She said Godivas mortgage terms are ambiguous when they refer to 
correspondence address. She said if Godiva only communicates by post it should make it 
clear it means postal address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C says Godivas mortgage terms are unclear. The mortgage offer says:
You are to ensure that we are notified of any change of the correspondence address.
Ms C says Godiva should make clear in the mortgage offer what a "correspondence 
address" is. She says it should use "postal correspondence address" if it only sends postal 
reminders. Ms C says she understood correspondence address to mean any address at 
which she could be contacted  in her case her email address. She said if this had been 
clear she wouldnt have been misled and would have updated Godiva when she moved 
house.
The implication of what Ms C says is that she looked at the mortgage offer when she moved 
house and decided she didnt need to give Godiva her new address.
While I understand the point Ms C makes, I dont agree with her. I think the ordinary 
meaning of correspondence address is an address where post can be delivered. If, when 
moving house, Ms C found the term unclear and wasnt sure whether to notify Godiva of her 
new address she could have contacted Godiva. 
Godiva says it didnt have Ms Cs email address. 
Ms C has set out the challenges she and her family have dealt with, including renovating 
their new property and the impact of the pandemic on work and schooling. I do appreciate 
this has been a difficult time. 
In considering Ms Cs request that interest is refunded, Ive taken the following into account:
This is a buy to let mortgage. Letting property is a business and borrowers are expected 
to manage their accounts with less support than customers with a residential mortgage. 
This includes monitoring their payments and when products expire.
Ms Cs previous mortgage product set out the date it expired, and that the SVR would 
then apply. So Ms C was made aware of this.
Godiva wrote to Ms C at the address in its records before and after the product expired 
to remind her of this. It also wrote to her later in 2020 about changes to her rate. 
Ms C moved in July 2019, some months prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ms C didnt 
update her postal address, or contact Godiva to check it was able to get in contact with 
her. While she says Godiva should have sent her emails, Ms C didnt check if it had her 
email address.
Godiva says when a product is due to end it sends reminders by letter. Godiva says its 
letters to Ms C werent returned and it didnt know shed moved. Godiva didnt know 
Ms C wasnt receiving its letters.
Ms C didnt contact Godiva before August 2020 to say she was in financial hardship or 
needed a payment deferral due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She maintained contractual 
monthly payments. Ms C would have been aware of the amount of the monthly 
payments from her bank statements. 
I can understand how frustrating it is for Ms C that her mortgage was on the SVR. Shes paid 
more interest as a result. I appreciate that Ms C could have spent this money differently  
especially given what shes said about the effect of the pandemic on her family. If Ms C is 
experiencing financial hardship, she should contact Godiva to discuss what support it might 
be able to offer. 
I dont think though that Godiva made an error here, or treated Ms C unfairly. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to refund any interest or back 
date Ms Cs new mortgage product.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman