DRN-1597233
 
Complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr B bought the policy in 2000, at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr B and Barclays a provisional decision on 5 February 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr Bs credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst sections for other optional 
extras. It gave an overview of what the policy was for, then had a box that could be ticked if 
Mr B wanted to buy PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. The box was ticked 
and Mr B signed and submitted the application, confirming what was on it. Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows that Mr B was told he had to have PPI, nor that it was added without 
his permission, and Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the 
time. So I think its most likely that Barclays made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer 
remembers doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Barclays if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr B, Ive assumed they did. 
That means Barclays had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr B was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.  
While Mr B had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits 
and covered him for much longer. He also had some savings, but once his work benefits ran 
out he wouldve needed those to cover all his living costs  no just his credit card  so they 
wouldnt have lasted that long. And the PPI meant Mr B could effectively protect his savings 
and use them for other things. Lastly, I understand Mr Bs family may have been happy to 
help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
policy meant Mr B wouldnt have to ask his family to pay his credit card. Further, the card 
was Mr Bs sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Barclays to have 
recommended he rely on other people to pay it. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been 
useful for Mr B in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mr B in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
19 February 2020. But neither Mr B nor Barclays have sent me anything new to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman