DRN-3593955
The complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr C has been represented in making this complaint by a family member. However, for the 
purposes of this decision, I will just be referring to Mr C.
What happened
Mr C took out the PPI in 1999 at the same time as arranging the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC has no record of how Mr C applied for the credit card and no longer has any 
documentation available relating to the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it 
took place. I know that Mr C finds this unsatisfactory. However, to be clear, banks are not 
required to keep records indefinitely and we would not expect them to.
Mr C says he didnt know PPI had been applied to the credit card account, meaning that it 
was added without his knowledge or consent.
From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at that time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Ive no doubt that Mr C has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, as the 
sale was in 1999, it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat and this is 
something that I have to take into account.
Overall, based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that Mr C wasnt given a 
choice about taking out PPI. On balance, I consider that he most likely decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC had to provide Mr C with sufficient information for him to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr C would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his credit 
card payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I doubt hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
HSBC has provided a copy of a PPI policy document for a Gold Card. Mr C has said he 
doesnt think he has a gold card and has expressed dissatisfaction that this might not be the 
right policy to be looking at. Again, due to the passage of time, we dont have access to 
every single policy document. However, I can see that the policy for the gold card is called 
Cardholder Repayment Protector. Mr C has sent us a copy of a credit card statement from 
2002 in which the PPI is described as Cardholder Repayment Protector. And we know from 
experience that policy terms didnt vary much between card types. Therefore, on a balance 
of probabilities, I accept that the document provided applied to policies like Mr Cs.
Under the policy terms, someone has to be working for at least 16 hours per week to be 
eligible for the cover. 
Mr C had completed a PPI questionnaire to assist us in looking at his complaint. In the 
section for employment status he ticked the box for self-employed. The section also 
contained other choices such as: not working, retired and working fewer than 16 hours. 
However, Mr C could not recall the date of sale when he first filled out the form. Therefore, 
once HSBC confirmed the date of sale as 15 February 1999, our then adjudicator contacted 
Mr C to ask if the details on the questionnaire were still correct for that date. Mr C responded 
that he was self-employed as opposed to any of the other available options. That was taken 
as confirmation that he was working at least 16 hours per week.
I appreciate that Mr C perhaps wouldnt have understood the relevance of his answers and 
so was happy to simply describe himself as self-employed at that time. However, he has had 
the opportunity to provide more details about his circumstances in advance of this decision.
Following our adjudicators view not to uphold the complaint, Mr C has said various different 
things. Hes said that he was virtually retired and only doing a little bit of work, that he hadnt 
had regular work for many years, that he didnt have a job to lose and lastly, that he had no 
work at the time and was already retired. Hes also said that he was too old to do physical 
work but that he was very fit and healthy. 
It would be difficult for Mr C to recall his exact circumstances in 1999 and so Im sure that 
these inconsistencies are probably due to the passage of time. 
Mr C has provided some screen shots of his National Insurance (NI) contributions at around 
that time. Unfortunately, these are inconclusive as they do not show the actual details of his 
contributions. For the relevant period the summary states: Year is not full. However, that 
may just mean that Mr C missed a few weeks NI contributions, which is not all that unusual 
for self-employed people.
Mr C has asked why anyone would take out PPI when they are at retirement age. But he 
was 61years old at the time which is not state retirement age and he could have benefitted 
from the policy for four years from the point of sale. I am also not persuaded by Mr Cs 
argument that most 61year old self-employed people are not working at that age. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C has said. However, on balance, Im unable to 
conclude that Mr C was not eligible for the policy. Based on the available evidence, I 
consider it more likely than not that Mr C was working a minimum of 16 hours a week at the 
time of the sale.
As already mentioned, Mr C was self-employed. Looking at the policy terms, it was no more 
difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim for unemployment than an employed 
person.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr C had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
Which means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But 
HSBC has offered to pay some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr C about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
It was in 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Mr C says that HSBC should pay him all the commission back. However, as HSBCs offer of 
compensation is in line with the methods set out by the FCA, I consider that it is a fair way to 
resolve this case.
My final decision
My decision is that the policy wasnt mis-sold. So HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should arrange to make this payment 
now if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman