DRN-3623884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) have handled their
Data Subject Access Requests (DSAR) in relation to their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with TMB that they redeemed in 2015. In March 2020, they
wrote to TMB and made a DSAR to obtain information about the mortgage. In July 2020 they
wrote to TMB again as they hadnt received a response.
TMB sent Mr and Mrs S a final response letter on 20 July 2020. They said they hadnt
received Mr and Mrs Ss letter requesting information, but had now passed on their request
to be processed. They said the request would usually take up to 30 days to complete, but
they were experiencing some delays at the time. 
TMB sent Mr and Mrs S their DSAR files in September 2020. Mr and Mrs S wrote to TMB in
January 2021 requesting some further information that hadnt been included in the files. TMB
responded on 25 January 2021. They apologised for not including the specific information Mr
and Mrs S had had to request again. But they didnt feel theyd failed to reasonably provide
Mr and Mrs S with the information theyd requested, as they werent aware of the specific
information they wanted at the time of the original request. TMB said theyd contacted their
specialist team to locate the information Mr and Mrs S had asked for, and would respond in
due course.
 
Mr and Mrs S also contacted the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about their
concerns.
Mr and Mrs S continued to write to TMB about the information they were yet to receive, and
on 17 June 2021, TMB responded. They explained that the ICO had been in contact and
they were following up on the letter theyd sent in January. They apologised that Mr and 
Mrs S hadnt received an update following the letter in January about the additional 
information theyd requested. They said they were making further enquiries, and would be in 
touch soon. They sent Mr and Mrs S a cheque for £100 to apologise.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service in February 2021 and asked us to
look into things. They were unhappy with the way TMB had handled the DSAR process.
They also complained about fees that had been applied to the mortgage on completion, and
that the interest rate TMB had applied to the mortgage was more than what was agreed.
I issued a decision setting out which parts of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint we could, and 
should, consider. I said that we would only consider Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that TMB did 
not provide the specific information theyd requested from them in January 2021.
Our Investigator looked into the part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that we could look at. 
Having done so, he explained that the £100 TMB had already offered was a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr and Mrs Ss response to the Investigators view, they have repeated parts of their 
complaint that Ive said we cant, or wont consider. In this decision Ill just be addressing the 
merits of the complaint that Ive said we will look at in my previous decision. To be specific  
that is how TMB responded to Mr and Mrs Ss request for specific information that they 
asked for in January 2021.
Mr and Mrs S wrote to TMB in January 2021 complaining about the information theyd 
received under their DSAR, and the fact that there was information missing. They quoted 
specific pieces of information they had expected to have received but hadnt. TMB said in 
their final response letter sent in January that they had passed Mr and Mrs Ss specific 
request for the missing information on to their specialist team, and that they would respond 
in due course.
As Mr and Mrs S still hadnt received the information they asked for, they contacted our 
service and TMB again. TMB told Mr and Mrs S in June 2021 that they were making further 
enquiries about their request and would be in touch soon. Its my understanding that Mr and 
Mrs S still havent received the information they requested, or an update from TMB about 
why that is.
It seems from what TMB have said that theyre unlikely to have the specific letters Mr and 
Mrs S have asked to receive copies of from 2002 and 2003. Given the amount of time thats 
passed I dont think thats unreasonable. However, on two occasions TMB told Mr and Mrs S 
they would look into their request and get back to them. I cant see they did that. So I think 
Mr and Mrs S have been left waiting thinking there was a chance that they could receive the 
information theyve asked for.
Whilst I dont think TMB have given Mr and Mrs S very good customer service here, I think 
theyve already done enough to put that right by apologising and paying Mr and Mrs S £100. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling about what happened with their mortgage in 
the past, and the reasons why they wanted the specific information theyd asked for. But 
their mortgage was redeemed some time ago, and the information they wanted was to 
pursue a complaint further that our service has already dealt with and not upheld. And the 
information was unavailable in any event. As a result, Im satisfied TMB have already done 
enough to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman