DRN-3284871
The complaint
Miss C complains Temple Finance Limited (trading as PerfectHome) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C entered into two finance agreements with PerfectHome to acquire electronic goods. 
In January 2019, Miss C entered into an agreement to acquire a smart television with a cash 
price of £467. The term of the agreement would last 104 weeks, with a total weekly 
repayment of £7.30. This increased to £8.16 after adding theft and accidental damage 
insurance. Miss C settled the agreement early in October 2020, when she paid off the £73 
balance outstanding.
In August 2019, Miss C entered into a separate agreement to acquire a gaming console with 
a cash price of £275. The term of the agreement would last 104 weeks, with a total weekly 
repayment of £5.20. This increased to £6.45 after adding theft and accidental damage 
insurance. By the second agreement, Miss C would pay £14.61 a week for both items and 
insurance  or just over £63.30 a month. Miss C settled the agreement early in October 
2020, when she paid off the £170 balance outstanding in one lump sum.
Miss C complains PerfectHome didnt complete proper checks and had it done so, it 
wouldve seen that she couldnt afford these finance agreements. Miss C says her credit file 
wouldve shown multiple payday loans, catalogue accounts in default and 3 large guarantor 
loans. By the second agreement, Miss C adds that she had several defaulted accounts, 
accounts in arrears and active county court judgements. Miss C believes that her financial 
situation got worse because of PerfectHome providing these finance agreements.
Miss C also complains PerfectHome insisted she took out its insurances, otherwise her 
application wouldve been rejected.
PerfectHome disagreed these agreements were unaffordable or that it had insisted Miss C 
take its insurance products. PerfectHome say they carried out several checks before 
approving the finance agreements. These included assessing Miss Cs income and 
expenditure and verifying the information with external agencies. PerfectHome add that for 
the first agreement, it also validated the information Miss C declared against the transactions 
showing on her bank statements.
Our investigator thought Miss Cs complaint should be upheld and recommended what 
PerfectHome should do to put matters right. Miss C accepted the recommendation and 
agreed she would settle the complaint on the basis put forward. But PerfectHome disagreed 
that the complaint should be upheld. So, it was passed to me to make a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. An extract 
from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs complaint. Having done so, 
I dont agree with the outcome put forward by the investigator.
Under the relevant regulatory framework, PerfectHome was obliged to lend responsibly. This 
meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Miss C could afford to meet the repayments 
in a sustainable way over the relevant term. And so, the assessment of Miss Cs 
circumstances had to be borrower-focused  which means that, while PerfectHome wasnt 
prevented from assessing its own risk as a lender, it also had to assess the risk to Miss C. 
The circumstances in which its reasonable to conclude that a less detailed affordability 
assessment is reasonable and proportionate are more likely to be limited to applicants 
whose financial situation was stable and whose borrowing was relatively insignificant given 
their overall financial circumstances. But given Miss Cs wider financial circumstances  for 
example, her recent history of frequent borrowing via high cost short-term lenders  
alongside the size of the lending and the goods acquired between January and September 
2019, I think the lending was significant for Miss C. 
Agreement to acquire a smart television  January 2019
Miss C completed an online application form to acquire the television, which included a 
declaration of income and expenditure. Miss C told PerfectHome she earnt £517 a week 
spent £252 toward non-discretionary commitments, such as rent, council tax and other 
credit.
PerfectHome searched Miss Cs credit file before agreeing to loan her the first item. This 
showed, amongst other things, that Miss C held eight active credit accounts, two opened 
within the last three months and all were up to date. It also showed Miss C had £680 owing 
to credit cards and around £5,500 owing on loans.
PerfectHome says it also validated the amounts Miss C declared she earnt and spent by 
comparing them against national databases. It hasnt been specific about the data it used as 
a comparison. A report commissioned by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
documents that rent-to-own lenders serve a highly vulnerable group of consumers, the least 
creditworthy and more likely to live in the most deprived areas of the UK. Ive not seen 
whether PerfectHomes checks drilled down as far as comparing Miss Cs income and 
expenditure against national databases for the specific socio-economic group PerfectHome 
primarily serves, or only compared them against the much wider national average. And 
without knowing whether the statistical data was representative of PerfectHomes market, I 
cant say its approach was a fair one to take.
So, given the information available to me, I cant currently say PerfectHomes checks were 
proportionate to Miss Cs circumstances and the proposed lending. Indeed, the amount 
Miss C told PerfectHome she earnt and spent meant, weekly, she had £262 uncommitted 
income, which begs the question as to why she would need to spread the cost of a £467 
television over 104 weeks. 
I appreciate that Miss C may well think that because Ive found there were shortcomings in 
PerfectHomes checks, it follows that her complaint should succeed. But I need to go on to 
consider what position Miss C is likely to have been in, if PerfectHome had done what it 
should have  ie would proportionate checks have shown PerfectHome shouldnt have 
loaned her the goods? 
Miss C has given us copies of her credit file and bank statements to show a more complete 
picture of her financial position at the time. 
Miss Cs copy of her credit file shows that between January 2018 and January 2019, she 
had borrowed from high cost short-term lenders on 21 occasions, with up to four loans running at the same time. As far as I can see, the most she borrowed at any one time was 
£1,720 in June/July, which she repaid the same time as her guarantor loan started, 
presumably consolidating her debt. Miss C continued to take short-term loans throughout the 
year and in December 2018, she had one loan outstanding for £500. Her credit file also 
shows the £5,000 guarantor loan, which started at the end of July, three credit cards with 
combined limits of £550 and a current account with no credit limit. 
Ive also seen a copy of a credit file search run by the lender of Miss Cs guarantor loan. It 
shows seven credit accounts recorded as in default between 2012 and 2014 with a total of 
£1,877 unpaid. It shows a further credit account recorded as in default in 2016, with £47 
outstanding.
Miss Cs bank statements show her take home pay averaged at £2,033 a month. They also 
showed a £83 monthly benefit payment and so her monthly income was £2,116  £125 less 
than the weekly figure used by PerfectHome in its affordability assessment. They show 
Miss Cs non-discretionary spend (including rent, utilities and subscriptions) at around £960 
a month that she spent on average £510 a month on groceries. So, considering her monthly 
credit commitments (including those to defaulted accounts not showing on her credit file), 
Miss C was left with roughly £175 a month at her disposal.
I have carefully considered PerfectHomes decision to loan Miss C a smart television with a 
cash price of £467  it is finely balanced. On the one hand, in the twelve months leading up 
to Miss C entering the agreement, she frequently borrowed from high cost short-term 
lenders. This may have been a sign that she was struggling to manage her finances, indeed, 
I note Miss C refers to her borrowing as spiralling out of control. On the other hand, having 
investigated her income and expenditure, and although vastly different to Perfect Homes 
assessment, she still had enough funds to comfortably cover the new commitment. 
I note that Miss Cs bank account didnt include an overdraft facility and I think its fair to say 
she turned to high cost short-term credit to manage her cashflow instead. As far as I can 
see, she didnt borrow more short-term credit than she would earn in any given month. After 
she consolidated some of these loans into a guarantor loan, the amount of short-term credit 
she borrowed steadily fell month on month. So, by the time PerfectHome considered her 
application, its checks ought to have shown historical financial problems which had improved 
over the previous two years, more so in the last six months. When I consider all Miss Cs 
circumstances in the context of a £470 loan application for a new customer with a £35 
monthly commitment, I cant reasonably say the decision to lend was irresponsible or 
obviously unaffordable for her. 
I would only add that the more forensic approach Ive taken to piece together Miss Cs 
financial circumstances is reflective of the time that has passed since her application and 
unlikely to have been proportionate at the time of borrowing. Indeed, had PerfectHome 
validated Miss Cs declared income against her payslips, given what it found when it 
searched her credit file, I think thats likely to have been enough. 
Agreement to acquire a games console  September 2019
Miss C again completed an online application form to acquire the games console. This time, 
Miss C told PerfectHome she earnt £501 a week and spent £208 toward non-discretionary 
commitments, such as rent, council tax and other credit. Miss C still owed around £577 
under her first agreement for the television.
PerfectHome searched Miss Cs credit file again before agreeing to loan her the second 
item. This time it reported the payment status the previous month for at least one of Miss Cs 
accounts opened within the last year as being in six months arrears. It also showed at least one of Miss Cs accounts opened in the last two years as registered in default within the last 
six months. Both entries did not show when PerfectHome searched her credit file in January 
and I think its fair to say that her financial position had worsened since her first application. 
 
PerfectHome had the benefit of Miss Cs payment history for her first agreement when it 
considered her new application, and this showed she had kept her payments up to date 
without any problems. But given the recent negative information now showing when it 
searched her credit file, I think PerfectHome still needed to have taken a more detailed look 
into whether Miss C could afford the new agreement. Once again, the amount Miss C told 
PerfectHome she earnt and spent meant, weekly, she would now have £293 uncommitted 
income, and it too begs the question as to why she would need to spread the cost of a £275 
games console over 104 weeks. 
Miss Cs bank statements show her take home pay averaged at £2,071 a month. They also 
showed a £83 monthly benefit payment and so her monthly income was £2,154  £100 less 
than the weekly figure used by PerfectHome in its affordability assessment. In June, £500 is 
credited from a high cost short-term lender, which appears on her credit file from August. 
Overall, her non-discretionary expenditure (including rent, council tax, credit repayment and 
groceries) shows on her statements at around £1,940 a month. This would leave Miss C with 
roughly £215 a month at her disposal.
I have again carefully considered PerfectHomes decision to loan Miss C a games console 
with a cash price of £275  it is also finely balanced. On the one hand, in the months leading 
up to Miss C entering her second agreement, the search of her credit file revealed recent 
problems and a default. And since her first agreement, she had borrowed again from a high 
cost short-term lender. On the other hand, Miss C had maintained her existing agreement for 
the smart television without any problem. And having looked again at her income and 
expenditure, noting the differences in PerfectHomes assessment, Miss C still had enough 
funds to comfortably cover the increased commitment of just over £63 a month  a £28 
increase. 
Having considered all Miss Cs circumstances in the context of a £850 top-up loan 
application with a £63 monthly commitment, I cant reasonably say the decision to lend was 
irresponsible or obviously unaffordable for her. 
Compulsory sale of ancillary insurance
Miss C also complains PerfectHome insisted she took out its insurances, otherwise her 
application wouldve been rejected.
PerfectHome says under its agreements, Miss C needed insurance to cover the items for 
theft and accidental damage, but Miss C didnt have to choose its policy. Im satisfied it was 
fair for PerfectHome to insist the goods were protected by an insurance  afterall, ownership 
of the goods wouldnt pass to Miss C until the agreements were fully repaid. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Cs complaint that her applications wouldve been rejected 
without her taking PerfectHomes insurance. I say this because she applied for both items 
online and if Miss C didnt want the insurance, I would expect to see either a declined 
application showing on her credit file, suggesting she had tried to proceed without it but was 
unsuccessful; or Miss C saying something to this effect. Ive seen neither. 
I have also studied the best part of six months bank statements for Miss C but Ive not seen 
a payment towards another insurer. So, without her own insurance to cover the television 
and games console, Miss C would need to take the PerfectHome insurance under the terms 
of the hire. Summary
I think PerfectHome could have done more to satisfy itself Miss C could sustainably repay 
the lending at the time of each application. But having reviewed all the information we have 
about Miss Cs circumstances at each application, I think had PerfectHome carried out 
proportionate checks, it still would have been reasonable to lend. Im also satisfied Miss C 
could choose not to take PerfectHomes insurance alongside her agreements, had she had 
alternative cover in place.
Responses to my provisional decision
PerfectHome acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but it didnt have anything 
further to add.
Miss C disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, she does not agree that she 
was left with enough disposable income to cover her commitments to PerfectHome. She 
believes that proportionate checks ought to have included PerfectHome requesting bank 
statements or proof of income. Had PerfectHome requested bank statements, it ought to 
have seen that she was frequently borrowing from her mum and continued to use payday 
loans. She also sent a further copy of her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending on our website. Having taken this into account along with everything else I need to 
consider, including the responses to my provisional decision, my decision remains 
unchanged and Im not upholding this complaint.
I note Miss Cs comments and I can assure her that I had carefully reviewed her full credit 
file, alongside her bank statements when reaching my provisional decision. I have reviewed 
the copies of her credit file entries she sent in response to my provisional decision and I am 
satisfied they are the same as those already on file  it isnt new information.
There are several questions I consider when I look at complaints about whether a lender has 
acted fairly and reasonably before agreeing to lend. I look out for signs that suggest the 
lending was likely to have been unsustainable and unaffordable for the borrower. But its 
important to add here that, even if I find such signs when I look into the complaint, they dont 
automatically mean the lender did something wrong when it lent. Before I can come to that 
conclusion, I must determine whether the lender knew or ought reasonably to have known 
that the lending was likely to have been unsustainable and unaffordable. And to do that, I 
have also to decide whether PerfectHome carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before lending. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, having looked at the checks carried out by 
PerfectHome before it agreed to lend, I dont think they were reasonable and proportionate. 
But, as Ive also said, that doesnt automatically mean the business did something wrong 
when it agreed to lend. So, I have looked at what PerfectHome would have discovered if it 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Miss C first applied to PerfectHome to acquire a smart television with £467 cash price and a 
monthly commitment of £35 over two years. I agree with Miss Cs comment about 
PerfectHome requesting proof of income. I explained in my provisional decision that had 
PerfectHome validated Miss Cs income with a payslip, given what it already had found when it first searched her credit file, I thought that was likely to have been enough. And given her 
bank statements confirmed the amount she earnt was within an acceptable margin of the 
amount she declared when she applied, I think it would have been reasonable for 
PerfectHome to lend to Miss C on that basis. 
Several months later Miss C applied for a games console with a cash price of £275, 
increasing her monthly commitment to PerfectHome to £63  an increase of £28 over the 
next year and a half. It took the total amount she owed to roughly £850. Miss C points to my 
provisional finding that her financial position showing on her credit file had worsened 
between the two applications. But I still needed to consider whether this, in itself, was 
enough to say PerfectHome shouldnt have lent. I dont think it is. I say this because when I 
took a detailed look at Miss Cs bank statements and essential expenditure, I was satisfied 
she could still afford the £63 a month. 
Miss C says she was frequently borrowing from and repaying her mum and wasnt left with 
any disposable income. I explained in my provisional decision that I had worked out Miss Cs 
non-discretionary expenditure (including rent, council tax, credit repayment and groceries) at 
around £1,940 a month. This would leave Miss C with roughly £215 a month at her disposal. 
I did see other payments leaving her bank account  for example, towards a holiday. But I 
dont think I can fairly include a holiday as essential non-discretionary spending. And Im 
mindful Miss C has had the benefit of the goods she acquired.
I also take comfort from seeing that Miss C managed to keep up with all her repayments on 
time and could pay lump sums to repay both agreements early.
In summary, I am satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have 
prevented PerfectHome from lending. Im not persuaded that more detailed checks would 
have given PerfectHome a reason to think that the lending was likely to have been 
unsustainable and unaffordable for Miss C. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman