DRN-4458027
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) who declined her 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L explained that in the early hours of the morning, a painting that had hung for several 
years, fell from its fixings and became damaged. She contacted LV to make a claim. She 
explained that the advisor took a few hours (and consulted with a senior advisor) as to 
whether or not the claim would be covered. 
Mrs L said that the advisor told her that the claim would be covered and instructed an art 
restorer to collect the painting from her. Over the next few weeks, LV investigated whether 
the claim would be covered. 
LV reviewed the policy and found that Mrs L had no cover as there was no additional 
accidental damage cover (AAD) included in her policy. There was only standard accidental 
cover (SAD) and this was insufficient to cover the damaged painting. So, LV declined the 
claim. 
Mrs L was unhappy by this outcome, especially because she had originally been advised 
that the damage to the painting was covered. Also, as there were delays during the claims 
process, she complained to LV. 
In its final response, LV accepted that there had been errors made during the claims 
process, namely the incorrect information Mrs L was given regarding cover for the painting. It 
also accepted that there was a loss of expectation. For this, it offered Mrs L compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused of £100. 
As to the declined claim, LV relied on the policy terms and conditions and said that the claim 
was fairly declined. As Mrs L had been given her referral rights and she remained unhappy 
with the resolution, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His 
view was that LV had fairly declined the claim under the policy terms, as there was no cover 
under the SAD for damage to the painting, as Mrs L hadnt selected the AAD. He said that 
the £100 compensation offered for the loss of expectation was fair. So, overall, there was 
nothing further he could reasonably ask LV to do.
LV accepted the view, Mrs L did not. She reiterated what she had been, mistakenly told by 
LV initially. And how unfair it was for LV to later decline the claim. She felt that the claim had 
been declined due to the cost of restoring the painting. And said that she had held a policy 
over several years and had never made a claim. She mentioned her specific vulnerabilities 
and raised additional complaint points regarding the mis-selling of the policy and the 
unprofessional behaviour of one of LVs agents. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs L, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
both parties have provided. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether LV reached 
the right decision to decline the claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
At the outset, I note that Mrs L has raised two additional issues of complaint. Those related 
to the unprofessional behaviour of one of the LV agents. And the mis-selling of the policy. 
Mrs L describes that one of the agents had been rude towards her during one of the calls. 
She further said that when she took out the policy, no one had explained to her the 
limitations of the cover that she selected. Nor did anyone make it clear the difference 
between the AAD and SAD levels of cover. 
However, I cant see that Mrs L previously raised these issues of complaint with LV. So, LV 
hasnt had an opportunity to investigate these new additional issues. Mrs L will need to raise 
those complaints with LV. Allow it up to eight weeks to respond and if after the issue of its 
final response, Mrs L still is dissatisfied, she will be able to refer a new complaint with our 
service. 
In other words, LV will need to be given the opportunity to investigate and to attempt to put 
matters right. Consequently, Im unable to consider these new issues presently. 
Ive next considered whether LV reached the correct decision to decline the claim, under the 
policy terms and conditions. For this, I have reviewed the policy and can see that there are 
two types of accidental damage cover available for policy holders. There is a SAD, as well 
as an AAD. The SAD comes as standard, but the AAD has to be specifically selected. 
Ive reviewed the policy documents and cant see that Mrs L selected the AAD, which meant 
that only the SAD level cover was on Mrs Ls policy. This level of cover only provided 
insurance on a limited basis, namely cover for fixed glass, solar panels, hobs, mirrors or 
home entertainment equipment:
Accidental damage to fixed glass including windows, bathroom suites, solar panels and 
hobs that are part of the buildings. Any mirrors, glass or ceramic tops that form part of the 
furniture in your home. To home entertainment equipment while in your home or garden.
A painting such as the one damaged in this claim, is not listed as an item that cover extends 
to. Mrs L didnt have AAD included on her policy. And although it is right that only a few 
examples of what could be covered, are mentioned in the policy, I dont think that the list was 
confined to just those examples. I say this, as the policy states: Extended protection for 
accidents such as. Im satisfied that this indicates that the list isnt exclusive. So had Mrs L 
selected this additional cover, I think its more likely than not, that LV wouldve covered her 
claim.Whilst I can fully appreciate how disappointed Mrs L is likely to be with the decision, having 
reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I think LV were reasonable to decline cover for the 
damaged painting, as it wasnt covered under the policy terms. 
I also think that LV recognised the handling errors that Mrs L experienced. And for the loss 
of expectation, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation offered, is in line with our services 
strict approach on compensation awards. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that LV acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman