DRN-3612491
The complaint
Miss R complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined her claim for storm damage to her roof 
under her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss R says that during the named storm Arwen high speed winds badly damaged the roof 
of her house, resulting in a large hole. She contacted QIC to make a claim. It sent a surveyor 
to inspect the damage. The surveyor concluded the underlying cause of the damage was 
wear and tear. QIC declined the claim relying on the policy term that excludes damage 
resulting from wear and tear.
Miss R provided a letter from her roofer. The roofer says the damage was caused by the 
storm winds. QIC reviewed its surveyors findings but maintained its stance that the claim 
should be declined for the reasons already given.
Miss R didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He thought QIC had fairly relied on the wear and tear exclusion 
based on its surveyors findings. Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Let me explain. 
Its for the policy holder to show that they have suffered an insured loss. If they can do so 
then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the cost of the repairs unless it is able to 
rely on a valid exclusion. My remit here is to decide whether it was fair for QIC to decline 
Miss Rs claim for the reason it gave. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Miss Rs policy insures against loss or damage caused by a storm. The policy states a storm 
is a period of violent weather defined as:
a gale of Force10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale) 
reaching winds of at least 55 mph.
I can see from the weather records that wind speeds in excess of 55mph were experienced 
at the time Miss Rs roof was reported to have been damaged. QIC doesnt dispute that 
storm conditions occurred  so Im satisfied the answer to question one is yes. 
Dislodged and damaged roof tiles are consistent with the type of damage high winds can 
cause during a storm. So, I think its reasonable to accept that the answer to the second 
question is also yes. 
The deciding factor as to whether Miss Rs loss is covered by her policy is whether the storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. I have thought about QICs surveyors report 
and follow up assessment, as well as Miss Rs roofers letter, and her testimony when 
considering this point. 
Of relevance here are the following comments from the surveyors report:
The damage viewed is not a result of a one-off storm event but due to on going wear and 
tear. There is no cover on your policy for wear and tear, as such the claim has been declined 
in full. Whilst the recent weather has highlighted this breakdown, it has been the occasion 
but not the cause. It is advised that as the underlying cause of damage is the aging of the 
materials, there is no cover under the policy.   
And:
During our inspection we noted previous repairs to affected areas, the repairs have been 
carried out using a different profile tile to the original Gaelic clay roof tile allowing an 
ingress of water into the verge detail. In our considered opinion the roof covering has past its 
useful working life.
The roofers letter says:
I was called out to [Miss Rs address] upon inspection we found various defects due to high 
winds. Tiles were Blown from roof. Due to this happening the tiles have pierced through the 
felt causing a big opening in the roof. Because there is a hole in the roof the wind was able 
to blow through and lift roof battons and cause tiles to fall.
I acknowledge Miss Rs comments that had the storm not occurred her roof wouldnt have 
been damaged. I dont dispute this. But a well-maintained roof in a good state of repair 
should be able to withstand storm conditions. This is the basis of QICs decision to decline 
the claim. So, I must consider whether there was an underlying defect that has been 
highlighted by the high winds.   
QICs surveyor highlights previous repairs to the roof using a different type of tile. He 
comments very specifically that this has allowed water ingress into the roof verge, and that 
the roof covering has passed its useful life. 
The roofer says defects were caused due to high winds. Both sides agree there were high 
winds at the time the damage occurred. But Im more persuaded by QICs detailed 
explanation of how the damage occurred, which was due to a breakdown of the materials 
within the roof covering that allowed strong winds to lift the tiles. 
QIC has relied on the following exclusions from the policy terms to decline the claim. From 
the General Exclusions section it says:Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage. Loss or damage as a result of gradual 
causes including: 
- wear and tear;
- gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not).
And from the storm section of the policy terms it says:
We dont cover: anything that happens gradually.
QICs surveyor confirms the underlying cause of the damage was a breakdown of materials 
that has occurred over time. I think it was fair that QIC arranged for its in-house surveying 
team to review the surveyors report. But the outcome of this is that it agreed with the 
surveyors findings. 
I have looked at the photos taken by the surveyor. I think this reasonably supports the view 
that previous repairs to the roof have been carried out using a different tile, and that this has 
allowed water ingress, which further deteriorated the condition of the roof. I have considered 
the photos Miss R provided showing the damage from within the roof space. I dont think this 
shows what QICs surveyor reported was wrong. On balance Im more persuaded by QICs 
view that a gradual breakdown in materials is the likely cause of the damage - not a one-off 
storm event. 
Having considered all of this I dont think its been shown that storm conditions were the 
main cause of the damage. I think the high winds highlighted the poor condition of the roof, 
which has resulted from wear and tear over time. As this cause of the damage is excluded 
under the policy terms, I think QIC acted fairly in relying on these terms and declining the 
claim.
I have thought about Miss Rs reference to damage that was caused to the internal parts of 
her home as a result of the hole in the roof. Accidental damage cover for buildings is an 
option QIC provides  but from her policy schedule its clear that Miss R didnt select this 
option. So, I dont think cover is provided by Miss Rs policy for this loss either. 
Im sorry that Miss Rs home was damaged. I understand how distressing this must have 
been. But having considered all of this I dont think QIC treated her unfairly when relying on 
its policy terms and declining her claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman