The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H underwent knee replacement surgery on 12 September 2019. Shed been given a 
patient information leaflet before the surgery which advised against flying for six weeks 
afterwards. Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday abroad and they were due to fly on 14 
November 2019.
Around a week before they were due to travel, Mrs H got in touch with her surgeon for a 
standard check-up. They told her that guidelines advised against flying for three months after 
knee replacement surgery. As Mr and Mrs H didnt want to travel against medical advice, 
they cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
AXA turned down the claim. It considered the medical evidence Mr and Mrs H had sent in, 
from the surgeon and their GP, together with the patient information leaflet. It acknowledged 
that the leaflet advised against travelling for six weeks. But AXA said the leaflet was generic 
and didnt apply specifically to Mrs H. The medical certificate stated the GP hadnt been 
consulted before Mr and Mrs H booked the trip. And they said Mrs H hadnt been fit to travel 
when the holiday had been booked. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy specifically excluded cancellation claims due to any 
circumstances a policyholder should reasonably have known about before booking an 
overseas trip. Based on the medical evidence itd seen, AXA felt this term applied to Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim. So AXA said the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with AXAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd relied on the patient information leaflet and they hadnt known 
about the three-month guidelines. If they had, they wouldnt have booked the trip.
Our investigator thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. She noted 
both the GP and surgeon had said the general guidance given to patients was to not fly for 
three months post-surgery. Mr and Mrs H hadnt sought their GPs advice before travelling, 
which she thought wouldve been reasonable. If they had sought the GPs advice, she felt 
the GP wouldve advised against travel. And she considered that given the short time 
between Mrs Hs surgery and the trip being booked, there was a risk she wouldnt be 
sufficiently recovered before the holiday. She felt Mr and Mrs H wouldve been aware of that 
risk when they booked the trip.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They felt the investigator had been very dismissive of the patient 
information leaflet, which only advised against flying for six weeks. Theyd been verbally 
informed of about this timeframe too. And they said Mrs Hs surgery had been identified as 
DRN-1575096being completely successful within a couple of days of the operation  otherwise they 
wouldnt have booked the trip.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think it was fair for AXA to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. So Ive considered everything both parties have provided to decide whether 
AXA applied its policy terms fairly.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the things AXA does and doesnt want to 
cover. It says:
What we will not pay for
Any loss or expense relating to the cancellation of the overseas journey as a result of any 
circumstances you should have reasonably known about before youbooked the overseas 
journey.
Mr and Mrs H told us they had no reason to think they might need to cancel their trip. Im 
pleased to hear Mrs Hs surgery was a complete success. Theyve sent us a copy of the 
patient information leaflet Mrs H was given by the pre-anaesthetic management service at a 
pre-operative appointment in June 2019. Ive looked carefully at this leaflet and I accept this 
does advise against air travel or long journeys for up to six weeks after the surgery. So I can 
entirely understand why Mr and Mrs H put some weight on this information.
But the information leaflet provided general information, it wasnt specific to Mrs H or her 
personal circumstances. And I have to decide, whether in Mrs Hs particular circumstances, 
it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to rely on generic information that was provided a few 
months before the surgery and not by her GP or surgeon based on an assessment of her 
condition post-surgery. 
I also need to consider the medical evidence that was sent to AXA by Mrs Hs treating 
doctors. The GPs certificate said that Mrs H wasnt fit to travel when she booked the trip. It 
could be that the GP was referring to the time of booking, rather than whether or not Mrs H 
would be fit to travel at the time of planned departure. But theres no further information from 
the GP to explain what they meant here. So I can understand why AXA concluded Mrs H 
mightve been reasonably aware that she might not be in a position to travel as planned 
when the trip was booked.
The GP and surgeon both also referred to patient guidelines that advise against travel for 
three months post knee replacement surgery. AXA said that if Mr and Mrs H could provide 
evidence which confirmed Mrs H had initially been given a fit-to-fly time of six week by her 
treating doctors, but that the guidelines later changed, it might reconsider the claim. I think 
this was a reasonable response. But it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs H provided AXA with 
such evidence. So I think it was fair for AXA to rely on the medical evidence it did have 
which was tailored to Mrs Hs circumstances and which showed she wouldnt have been fit 
to fly for three months post-surgery. And Ive also noted that the GP said Mrs H hadnt consulted them before booking the trip. 
While I understand Mrs Hs surgery had gone well, there was always the possibility that her 
recovery mightve taken longer than was first thought and that she wouldnt be able to travel. 
I think this is something Mr and Mrs H were likely to be reasonably aware could happen, 
even if they didnt think it was likely. So I agree with the investigator that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mrs H to see her GP or talk to her surgeon before the trip was booked to 
ensure they felt shed be fit to travel. Especially given the time that passed between the pre-
surgery appointment and the actual surgery. If shed done so, I think its more likely than not 
that the GP wouldve advised her against travelling.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, I think they ought to have 
reasonably been aware of circumstances that might lead to the cancellation of their trip. So I 
think it was fair for AXA to rely on its policy terms to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman