DRN-2855320
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about advice she received from Santander UK Plc in 2000, to invest 
in a Balanced Portfolio Growth fund within an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
In April 2000 Mrs C deposited £3,000 into a stocks and shares ISA with Santander. She 
closed the ISA and withdrew the funds in December 2007, receiving a total of £3,295.96. In 
May 2019 Mrs C complained to Santander through a representative about the advice in 2000 
and two earlier instances of advice in 1995 and 1998. Her representative said that the advice 
given was unsuitable as it exposed her to more risk than she ought to have been exposed 
to, given her limited investment experience.
Santander replied, agreeing that the advice given in 1995 and 1998 was unsuitable, as the 
funds involved too much risk for Mrs C and they made an offer in respect of those 
investments. However, they said that by 2000 Mrs C was a more experienced investor, so 
they felt the advice given at that time was suitable. 
Santander initially objected to this service looking into the complaint, on the basis that it 
considered Mrs C knew or shouldve known she had cause for complaint more than three 
years before she raised her complaint. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision in September 2020 explaining that I considered Mrs Cs 
complaint had been made in time  so the case was passed to one of our investigators to 
look into. 
He considered the limited evidence available and concluded, in short, that there was 
insufficient information to persuade him that Santanders advice in 2000 was unsuitable. He 
noted there was no information about the advice, fact find or any point of sale 
documentation. 
Mrs C, with the help of her representative, didnt agree. She said:
She didnt agree she had more experience in 2000 by virtue of the investments she 
had previously taken out in 1998. 
She thought the evidence was clear that her attitude to risk instead of rising was still 
cautious by 2000 and later. She said she had taken out capital protected investments 
in 2002 and 2003, which all guaranteed her capital, showing this was important for 
her. She said this showed that she was generally low risk and keen to protect her 
capital. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Where the evidence is contradictory and incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I thinks most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Its clear that in this case, given the length of time that has passed, there is virtually no 
evidence that would help me establish:
What overall circumstances Mrs C disclosed to the adviser at the time. 
What her objective for the investment was and how she described her attitude to risk. 
Why this particular investment was recommended, and what conversations were had 
about it. 
Mrs Cs representative has essentially argued that, despite the absence of this information, 
this investment must have been inherently unsuitable, because Mrs Cs attitude to risk was 
clearly very cautious  and furthermore, whatever experience she had accumulated by 2000 
was based on investments which Santander agree were unsuitable. In other words, that 
experience should be discounted. 
But despite considering these comments very carefully, Im not satisfied on balance that it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude this investment was inherently unsuitable. I 
say this because:
The little information I have about the investment shows that it was a mainstream 
fund, likely specialised in UK (mostly large cap) equities  this is based on the 
makeup of similar funds with similar objectives. 
The size of her investment, combined with the little information I have about her 
overall circumstances, suggest that it was affordable for her. 
I dont agree the risk of the investment was inherently unsuitable  and instead find 
the fact that Mrs C kept the investment for seven years, including during periods of 
significant volatility, shows that, in the absence of anything else, Mrs C wasnt 
uncomfortable with the investment or its volatility. 
I dont agree I should discount Mrs Cs previous experience at the time. At the point 
of the advice Mrs C clearly had more experience about investing, including the risks 
and the rewards. Its entirely conceivable that she was looking to expose some of her 
liquid assets to the stock market, and understood this would involve a higher risk 
than leaving her money on deposit or investing in a capital protected product. 
I dont agree her subsequent investment decisions are all that relevant  just 
because she later opted for capital protected products, whilst still holding on to this 
investment, doesnt mean this advice was unsuitable. 
For me to be persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint with 
such little information available, Id need to be persuaded that the investment was inherently 
unsuitable  given everything Ive said above, Im not. 
So taking all this into account, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but I dont agree Santander 
need to do anything further to put things right for her. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman