DRN-2872202
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs W say The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold them PPI.
At the time, The Co-operative Bank Plc was trading as Britannia. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to them as Co-op throughout this decision.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Co-op made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Co-op has provided me with a number of documents from the time 
of the sale. Firstly, Ive looked at the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs W 
signed. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that had a brief description of the 
cover and a yes or no option to apply for it. I can see Mr and Mrs W ticked yes to say 
they wanted to apply for the cover, and I think it was equally clear they could have ticked 
no to decline it.
Mr W then completed a separate PPI application form in which he requested for the 
cover to be in his name only. This set out the monthly benefit he would be entitled to 
under the policy and gave him the option to select the level of cover he wanted. Mr W 
selected to have unemployment cover only and he didnt opt to have the accident and 
sickness cover. He then answered some basic question about his circumstances before 
signing the document to confirm its contents. Having considered everything available to 
me, I think Mr and Mrs W was aware the PPI was a separate product to the mortgage 
and that they chose to take it out. 
Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs W enough clear 
and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Co-op gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs W if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think they would have 
declined the cover had Co-op done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Co-op should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Co-op doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman