DRN-3102285
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Motors Insurance Company Limiteds (MICL) handling of a claim 
on his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to MICL includes its agents which administer the policy for it.
What happened
Mr Ps car was in an accident and deemed a total loss. I understand hes been paid for the 
market value of the car following a successful claim on his comprehensive motor insurance 
policy. Mr P claimed on his GAP policy for the higher of the difference between the motor 
insurers settlement for the total loss of his car and:
its purchase price;
the outstanding finance on it.
MICL asked Mr P to submit documents in support of his claim, which he did. It then said it 
wished to interview him and told him the interview would take about 1 hours. Mr P didn't 
agree to be interviewed and MICL declined his claim.
Mr P didn't think MICL had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigator's looked into it. He asked MICL for further information, which MICL didn't 
provide. So he said that based on the evidence hed seen, he didn't think MICL had dealt 
with Mr P fairly. He said it should pay Mr Ps claim. MICL then provided us with some further 
information and said it didn't agree to settle Mr Ps claim without interviewing him first. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely I won't uphold it.
Its certainly not unusual, and we think it's fair, for insurers to wish to be satisfied that a claim 
meets the policy terms before deciding to pay it. And that means insurers may request 
further information from a consumer before paying a claim. I don't think theres anything 
wrong with that.
In this case its clear that, initially at least, Mr P was happy to cooperate with MICLs 
requests for information but that cooperation ceased when MICL said it wanted to conduct a 
video interview. And it referred the claim to its agents to do so. I understand that 1 hours 
may seem like a long time to set aside for an interview. But, as far as I'm aware, Mr Ps 
claim is worth somewhere in the region of £10,000. So, while he might think that interview 
time period is longer than required, it was in his interests to cooperate with MICL, as, by 
attending the interview, he stood to gain by potentially having his claim paid.
It certainly wasn't helpful that MICL didn't initially respond to our investigator's reasonable 
requests for information. But MICL has since explained to us that it has questions about the 
validity of the claim which it wishes to put to Mr P in person. And, until it has done so, it's not 
satisfied that Mr P has proven his claim. I will point out that the onus is on Mr P to prove that 
he has a valid claim at this stage. So its within his interests to cooperate with MICLs 
requests to interview him.
Further, Ive seen that Mr P wanted to direct MICLs requests for an interview to his legal 
representative. But while he could have his representative accompany him during the 
interview if he wished, as it wasn't the representative who made the claim, I think its 
reasonable that MICL would wish to put its questions directly to Mr P.
I've also noted that Mr P commented that MICL hadn't provided him with documents showing 
it had authorised its agents to interview him. But MICL isn't required to provide him with 
those documents. Mr Ps policy allows MICL to appoint agents to act for it and to share 
Mr Ps information when doing so. Those were terms Mr P agreed to when he took the policy 
out. So I don't think MICLs acted unfairly.
It follows that I'm not going to instruct MICL to take any further action. However, if Mr P 
wishes to change his mind and consent to be interviewed then I would encourage him to do 
so.
Developments 
Mr P didn't agree with my provisional decision. He noted that MICL hadn't replied to our 
investigator's requests for information promptly or answered all his questions. Mr P said that 
if MICL wanted to appoint a loss adjuster it should have done so at the start of the claim. 
And, if it wished to do that, then he doesn't understand why it advised him to accept the 
motor insurers offer for the total loss of the car. He said:
Why were the [sic] communicating with the insurance company? 
They should have ceased all communication with myself But they appointment [sic] a loss 
adjuster at the last stage of the claim.
Mr P repeated that 1 hours was an unreasonable timeframe for a video interview. He said 
that the loss adjusters could request any information from him in writing. He said there is 
no need for him to prove his claim.
He said that MICLs agents said:
[the agent] would add as a general observation that the only policyholders that object to 
this process or fail to cooperate usually have a reason for doing so.
Mr P indicated that this shows that the agent was employed purely to protect their clients 
interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. I said in my provisional decision that it wasn't helpful that MICL hadn't initially fully or 
promptly answered our investigator's questions. But I don't think that automatically means 
that its wish to interview Mr P before paying his claim is unreasonable. 
Further, I don't find it unreasonable that MICL would choose to appoint agents (who Mr P 
has referred to as loss adjusters) to interview Mr P after the beginning of the claim. The 
policy doesn't say that MICL would only appoint agents or investigate at the start of a claim. 
And, while this may add to the timeframe for settling a claim, Mr P can reduce that timeframe 
by agreeing to an interview at his earliest convenience. 
Also, I can understand that MICL has most likely only decided it needed to interview Mr P 
after receiving evidence that has convinced it that step is necessary. So, I think its likely it 
only realised it needed to appoint agents to interview Mr P part way through the claim 
process. And I don't find that unusual or unfair.
Similarly, I don't think there's anything wrong with MICL liaising with the motor insurers 
involved in paying Mr P for the total loss of his car. Thats because, as Mr Ps GAP policy 
would pay him the difference between that settlement and the invoice price for his car or 
finance outstanding, MICL would want to be satisfied that the motor insurer had paid Mr P a 
fair market value for his car. I don't think that the fact that MICL had decided to liaise with the 
motor insurers meant that it had to cease all contact with Mr P. 
Mr P repeated that 1 hours was too long for a video interview. But for the reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision I don't agree that timeframe is unreasonable. Mr Ps added that 
MICLs agents could ask him for information in writing. But there are occasions when 
insurers can reasonably wish to test a policyholders evidence by asking them questions in 
person (albeit this was by video link) and taking the opportunity to ask any required follow-up 
questions straightaway. Thats not a process which lends itself to written questions and 
answers. So I don't think MICL has done anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr Ps claim until 
it interviews him. 
Mr P said there is no reason for him to prove his claim. But I disagree. Its for Mr P to show 
hes suffered a loss that is covered by the policy. And I think its reasonable for MICL to want 
to validate any such claim. And that's what it was reasonably trying to do by asking to 
interview Mr P. 
Mr P has also said that MICLs agents are acting only to protect their clients interest. Neither 
I nor Mr P has seen the instruction that MICL gave to its agents, but it clearly involves 
validating - or not - Mr Ps claim. So, while MICL may be wishing to protect its own interests, 
its also in Mr Ps interests to make himself available for interview if he wants his claim to be 
paid. 
Further, I don't think there's anything wrong with an insurer like MICL wanting to be sure a 
claim is valid before it pays it, as long as it treats Mr P fairly and reasonably while doing so. 
And, while the agents speculation for why policyholders may refuse to be interviewed isn't 
particularly helpful, I don't think it means MICLs dealt with Mr P unfairly or wouldn't deal with 
him fairly in the future. It follows that I'm not minded to amend my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman