DRN-3248107
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
declined a claim he made on his income protection policy.
What happened
Mr C made a claim for extreme stress in April 2019  this related to his young childs 
diagnosis and treatment for cancer. The claim was declined on the basis that Mr C hadnt 
accurately disclosed a history of treatment for mental health conditions. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service previously considered a complaint in relation to this. In 
November 2020 I issued a final decision about whether Mr C had made a misrepresentation 
to Royal London when taking out the policy. I said that I didnt think Mr C had taken 
reasonable care when answering the insurers questions about his mental health when 
taking out the policy. 
I concluded that there had been a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So, I thought Royal London 
was entitled to apply the appropriate remedy available in CIDRA which was to apply an 
exclusion to the policy. 
The exclusion said the insurer wouldnt pay a claim linked directly or indirectly to any mental 
or nervous disorder, including but not limited to stress or anxiety related disorders, its 
treatment or any complications arising from the disorder or treatment. And, having 
considered the medical evidence I didnt think it was unreasonable to Royal London to 
conclude that Mr C wouldnt have been able to claim for extreme stress (with associated 
trauma and exhaustion) as a result of that exclusion. However, I said that if Mr C considered 
there to be further evidence which supported his physical inability to work then he would 
need to present that information to Royal London first. 
Mr C made a further complaint to Royal London saying that his incapacity was caused by 
physical exhaustion. Royal London reviewed the medical evidence. They said that when 
Mr C had been asked to clarify the reason for his claim in April 2019 hed said that hed been 
suffering from extreme stress (with associated trauma and exhaustion). Having reviewed the 
medical evidence they concluded that the medical evidence supported that the absence was 
due to stress related problems. 
Mr C referred a further complaint to our service. He said that from his perspective things 
were very simple  irrespective of other factors, the unavoidable physical exhaustion of 
managing his childs demanding treatment should stand as grounds to make a claim. He 
said hed presented evidence from his GP and a social worker in addition to his own 
account. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold the complaint as she 
thought that the medical evidence from the time the claim was made indicated that it was 
mental health issues that were preventing Mr C from working. So, she didnt think it was 
unfair for Royal London to decline the claim. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that it wasnt 
fair to say the medical evidence was insufficient, because is was retrospective. And, he said 
that the self-evident reality of caring for his child, together with a partner who had a disability, 
supported his claim. Mr C also didnt think that the investigator had addressed the evidence 
hed provided from a case worker at a charity which substantiated that he was physically 
exhausted for the relevant period. So, I need to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my previous final decision, Im very sorry to hear of the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Cs claim. Its clear that he and his family have experienced a very 
challenging and difficult time. 
Ive explained above that I have previously issued a final decision relating to the application 
of the exclusion to the policy. Im not going to revisit any of the facts or circumstances 
relating to that aspect of Mr Cs claim as theyve already been considered by The Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So, my decision will focus upon the reasons given for declining to pay 
the claim on the basis of Mr Cs physical inability to work. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Royal London must handle a claim 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Mr C to 
demonstrate that he meets the policy definition of incapacity. Its not for Royal London to 
show that he doesnt.
The policy will pay a benefit if the policyholder meets the definition of incapacity. The 
relevant definition in this case is the: 
Loss of physical or mental ability, before age 70, through an illness or injury to the 
extent that the person covered is unable to do the material and substantial duties of 
their own occupation. The material and substantial duties are those that are normally 
required for, and/or form a significant and integral part of, the performance of their 
own occupation that cant reasonably be omitted or modified. 
Occupation means: 
A trade, profession or type of work undertaken for profit or pay. Its not a specific job 
with any particular employer and is independent of location and availability.  As Ive outlined above the policy has an exclusion which means Royal London doesnt have 
to pay a claim directly or indirectly to any mental or nervous disorder, including but not 
limited to stress or anxiety related disorders, its treatment or any complications arising from 
the disorder or treatment.
Was Mr Cs claim for physical exhaustion fairly declined? 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Based on the medical evidence available I dont think it was unreasonable for Royal 
London to conclude that it supported that the reason for Mr Cs absence was related 
to his mental health, which was excluded by the policy. The GP notes and sick notes 
issued indicate that his mental health was most likely the cause of absence from 
work. There isnt any contemporary medical evidence which says that Mr C was 
physically unable to carry out his role. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about being unable to get further 
contemporary evidence in support of his physical condition at the relevant time. 
However, his comments on this point dont change my thoughts on the overall 
outcome of this complaint. Im satisfied that the contemporary medical notes fairly 
reflect his health at the time and the circumstances which led to him being unable to 
work. The available evidence suggests it is most likely that his absence was due to 
his mental health, as opposed to his physical health. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable to consider this as the most accurate reflection of the medical position at 
the relevant time. 
Mr C also referred to a report from a social work team which supported Mr C through 
his childs illness. The content of the report sets out the detail of Mr Cs childs care. I 
dont doubt that it was an extremely difficult and challenging time for him. As I said in 
my previous decision, I have a great deal of empathy for everything that Mr C, his 
child and his family have been through  its clearly been an incredibly upsetting and 
stressful time. The report explains, in summary, that supporting a child through 
diagnosis and treatment was physically demanding and draining.  However, the 
author of the report is not an expert in physical exhaustion and I dont think they are 
suitably qualified to provide an opinion on Mr Cs fitness to work. And, I cant fairly 
say that this report is sufficient to demonstrate that Mr C met the policy definition of 
incapacity.  
Ive taken into account all of the evidence from Mr Cs GP. That includes a letter from 
June 2020. Its a short report and does say that Mr C was suffering from physical 
exhaustion  the report relies on Mr Cs self-reporting of his condition and was 
produced around a year after Mr Cs initial claim. It explains Mr Cs circumstances 
and that he was performing all physical care and support for his child with a huge 
impact on Mr Cs own health and wellbeing. The GP said it wouldnt have been 
reasonable to expect Mr C to carry out a demanding office job during this period of 
time. However, the report doesnt provide a detailed analysis of Mr Cs functional 
capability to do his occupation. And, I also think the GPs letter indicates there was 
most likely a connection between Mr Cs mental health and the physical exhaustion 
he reported. So, bearing in mind the exclusion placed on the policy Im not 
persuaded that this means Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Even if I accepted that the medical evidence suggested Mr C was physically unable 
to work I think it is most likely that the exclusion Ive outlined above would apply in 
any event. I say that because I think that the medical evidence suggests its most 
likely that the primary reason for Mr Cs absence was his mental health and the 
impact that it had on his health and wellbeing. The policy excludes claims linked 
directly or indirectly to any mental or nervous disorder. So, I think its likely that Royal 
London could fairly apply the exclusion due to the apparent link between Mr Cs 
physical and mental health.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C but there are no grounds upon which I can fairly and 
reasonably direct Royal London to pay the claim. I think it has been declined fairly, 
taking into account the medical evidence and the policy terms. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman