The complaint
Mrs G complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited imposed unfair charges 
for damages to a car she returned.
What happened
Mrs Gs finance agreement came to an end and her car was collected by an agent acting on 
behalf of MBFS. The inspector identified two areas of damage, a marked alloy wheel and a 
scratched headlamp. MBFS charged Mrs G £654.38. Mrs G complained and MBFS refunded 
the charge for damaged alloy, but maintained the headlamp needed to be replaced due to 
the damage.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She referred to the vehicle return guidance 
and to the photographs in the agents report. She concluded that the damage fell within fair 
wear and tear.
She said she could see there was a scuff which is over 5mm. However, looking at the 
guidance she noted this states it is unacceptable for a chip to be over 5mm. She didnt think 
the damage could be described as a chip.
Furthermore, she didnt consider the damage would affect the performance of the headlight. 
She believed it to be operational and not of such significance as to distract from the overall 
appearance of the vehicle. She thought it was acceptable for a vehicle of this age.
MBFS didnt agree. It accepted the image doesn't show a chip but thought the scuff would 
have a similar impact on the light and potentially reduce the intensity of the beam. Even 
though the surface area of the damage was small MBFS said it may cause further issues 
with the headlight such as opaquing of the headlight lens. This could cause a safety issue 
and a possible MOT advisory and maybe a failure in future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The report states that the headlamp is scratched for an area up to 5mm. The photograph 
shows a scratch or abrasion. The Mercedes vehicle returns standards guidance says that 
where a lamp is holed, cracked or broken it should be replaced and the customer bears the 
cost.
The British Vehicle Leasing and Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines says that all lamps 
must work and minor scuff marks or scratches up to 25mm are acceptable. I have reviewed 
the photographs and I dont consider that the abrasion is a scratch or that it goes beyond fair 
DRN-1813376wear and tear. Nor do I consider it falls within the guidance issued by MBFS setting out what 
is unacceptable.
MBFS refer to what might happen in future, but Mrs G cannot be held responsible for future 
events. She is liable for any damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear at the time the 
agreement comes to an end. I have seen no evidence to show the lamps effectiveness was 
in anyway reduced as a result of the abrasion, nor have I seen anything that would say that it 
would fail a MOT at the time it was collected.
Putting things right
Quite simply I do not believe the mark falls within MBFSs own definition of chargeable 
damage and so I believe the charge should be removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the charge for the damaged head lamp and refund any 
payment made by Mrs G plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid until the date repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman