DRN-4066343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer to settle a claim on their buildings 
insurance policy doesnt cover all of the damage at their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their policy relating to subsidence at their home. 
AXA appointed loss adjusters to deal with the claim. The loss adjusters confirmed there was 
some subsidence but said the cause of that had been addressed. They carried out 
monitoring over a lengthy period and said this showed the position had stabilised and there 
was no ongoing subsidence movement.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy as they said there was movement to an internal wall but AXA 
refused to cover this. It said the loss adjusters report showed the movement to the internal 
wall wasnt due to subsidence and so would not be covered by the policy.
AXA offered to pay a cash settlement for repairs relating to the subsidence but said Mr and 
Mrs P would have to deal with the repairs to the internal wall.
Mr and Mrs P complained but AXA didnt change its decision, so they referred the complaint 
to this Service. Our investigator said:
AXA had carried out work relating to the subsidence and monitoring had shown this 
has resulted in the subsidence being stabilised.
The advice from the loss adjusters was that the problem with the internal wall was 
not caused by subsidence and there was no contradictory evidence showing 
otherwise.
It was reasonable for AXA to ask Mr and Mrs P to deal with the internal wall. If, when 
they deal with this, they obtain their own expert advice they can present that to AXA 
to consider.
Mr and Mrs P disagree and have requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Mr and Mrs P are naturally very concerned about the condition of their home. I know the 
situation is very difficult for them to manage and has caused them a lot of concern. But I 
need to consider what the policy terms say and whether the damage they are worried about 
is covered by their policy.
The policy defines subsidence as Downward movement of the site on which the buildings 
are situated by a cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves and provides 
cover for subsidence as follows  Damage to your home caused by the ground moving
Theres an exclusion for damage to or resulting from movement of solid floor slabs and non 
load bearing walls unless the foundations beneath the load bearing walls of the home are 
damaged at the same time by the same cause.
AXA appointed loss adjusters to investigate the damage at Mr and Mrs Ps home. They 
confirmed there had been subsidence, but measures were taken to address this. Following a 
period of monitoring, they advised that the subsidence was now stabilised. AXA has agreed 
to pay for repairs to damage caused by the subsidence and made a cash offer to cover the 
cost of this. It says the internal repairs need to be done and those are Mr and Mrs Ps 
responsibility.
Looking at the evidence AXA has obtained, this shows the subsidence has become stable. 
The loss adjusters have identified the cause of the movement in the internal wall as follows:
ineffective/inadequate bearing capacity of the partition wall, failing to support the 
weight of the chimney breast resulting in the subsequent movement/damage; and
possible poor compaction of the original hardcore material prior to it being covered in 
concrete.
I appreciate the loss adjusters havent carried out detailed inspections of the internal wall. 
But they have shown that the subsidence has been stabilised, with no further signs of 
movement in the external walls. If the external walls are not showing signs of damage at the 
same time as the internal wall, this indicates it is a separate issue causing the movement in 
the internal wall, in which case the exclusion I have referred to above would apply. And the 
likely cause given for the internal movement is that the wall is unable to support the weight of 
the chimney breast, rather than ground movement.
So the evidence obtained by AXA is that the issue with the internal wall is separate from the 
previous issues with external walls and has a different cause.
AXAs decision is in line with the professional advice it has received and theres no contrary 
evidence to show there is ongoing subsidence, which is affecting the internal wall. On that 
basis I think its decision that the damage to the internal wall is not covered is reasonable.
AXA said that rather than carrying out the external repairs, it would pay a cash settlement to 
Mr and Mrs P based on a schedule of work needed. This will enable them to deal with those 
repairs when they carry out the internal repairs. Again, that seems reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
If Mr and Mrs P appoint professionals to deal with the internal repairs and those 
professionals provide evidence that contradicts the loss adjusters evidence, Id expect AXA 
to reconsider the position. But on the information obtained so far, its decision is in line with 
the policy terms and is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman