DRN-3947566
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund over £119,000 he lost to an 
investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr P has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that Revolut ought to 
have provided a scam warning due to the unusual activity taking place on his account. 
Revolut has accepted that it should have intervened on the fourth payment made on 
13 September 2022 of £2,604.26, and has conceded that this would have likely 
prevented the scam. It has therefore agreed to refund the payments Mr P made from this 
point onwards. This aspect no longer appears to be in dispute by the parties, but in any 
event, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Revolut to refund the money lost 
from this payment as well. It was the fourth payment made to the same payee on the 
same day, and Im also satisfied an intervention or scam warning from Revolut would 
have likely prevented any further loss.
What has been disputed by Mr P is whether it is fair and reasonable for a 50% deduction 
in compensation to be made as a result of his contributory negligence, as recommended 
by the investigator. Ive considered everything Mr P and his representatives have said on 
the matter, and Im satisfied the recommended deduction is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for a lack of due diligence on Mr Ps part.
Mr P says he checked Trustpilot to verify the broker (Trade Baionics) and saw positive 
reviews, which led him to believe they were legitimate. However, at the time Mr P was 
scammed, there was also a significant number of sources claiming the broker was 
operating a scam.
Mr P has said he was on medication at the time after having been through an operation, 
such that he should be considered as vulnerable. Im sorry to hear about the pain Mr P 
had been experiencing, and I accept that this may have had some impact on him at the 
time. However, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to demonstrate that this would 
have prevented him from being able to protect himself from falling victim to a scam. He 
had enough capacity to read articles and think about checking Trustpilot reviews in the 
first place to verify the broker, for example, where he said that he saw positive reviews. 
So, theres seemingly little to suggest that he wouldnt have also been able to see or 
understand the negative reviews online as well. Therefore, Im not persuaded he was 
vulnerable to the extent that he was unable to protect himself, and I dont consider he 
carried out enough due diligence before deciding to part with his money. He should 
therefore share responsibility with Revolut for his loss, and Im satisfied a 50% deduction 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In terms of the payments Revolut isnt refunding, I dont consider there was anything 
more it could have done to try and recover the money after the fraud was reported. Mr P 
made the payments from his Revolut account to his own crypto wallets before moving 
the funds on to the scammer. Therefore, there would have been no prospect of 
recovering the faster payments he made to those wallets, nor would there be any 
prospect of successfully raising a chargeback for the card payments either.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund the payments Mr P made as part of the scam, from the £2,604.26 payment made 
on 13 September 2022 onwards, less a deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr Ps own 
contributing negligence towards his loss. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman