DRN-2025850
The complaint
Mrs R complains that the claim she made for an escape of water at her property has been 
unfairly declined by Integra Insurance Solutions Limited (Integra).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 June 2020 explaining that I was 
intending to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mrs R insured her property with Integra Insurance Solutions Limited ("Integra") from 
13 October 2018 to 12 October 2019 against damage caused by various insured 
risks, including escape of water. From 13 October 2019 to the current time, Mrs Rs 
property has been covered by an insurance policy with Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea), against the same insured risks. Both policies were arranged by an 
insurance broker who I will call S. 
Mrs R lives in a two-story stone house. The first floor of the house is unoccupied, 
except when Mrs R has an occasional visitor to stay. Mrs R has a balance condition 
which means that she doesnt often venture to the upper floor of the house, and she 
is physically unable to climb the loft ladder into the loft where her water tank is 
located.
On 29 October 2019, after having guests to stay, Mrs R went upstairs to the guest 
bathroom, to close a window and noticed a couple of small mushrooms starting to 
show in the corner of the wall. She called an emergency plumber to the house, who, 
on inspecting the first floor and loft found that the water tank had a slow leak, coming 
through a very small hole. He estimated the leak had been continuing for a period of 
up to six months. The water had soaked through the bathroom ceiling, and the ceiling 
and walls of an adjacent linen cupboard and ruined all the contents in the cupboard. 
Mrs R contacted her current insurer, Covea to make a claim for damage caused by 
an escape of water, on 7 November 2019. Covea, sent a surveyor to the property on 
12 November 2019, who, according to Mrs R, was at the property for less than ten 
minutes. The surveyor took a few photographs and issued a brief report to say that 
the claim was declined because the damage was extensive and pre-dated the policy 
inception. Covea told Mrs R that she needed to raise a claim with Integra, which she 
did on 13 November 2019. 
On 27 December 2019, in response to a complaint Mrs R made on 20 December 
2019, Integra issued its final response letter informing Mrs R that the claim should be 
dealt with by Covea. It said the available evidence confirms that the leak was both 
identified after the policy with them lapsed and was continuous and ongoing when 
discovered. It also said that while Covea believes the damage pre-dates their policy, 
it cannot be ignored that the leak was ongoing 17 days into the policy held with 
Covea. Integra said their view on claims such as this is that the date a policyholder 
first notices the damage should be considered as the date of the incident, unless an 
insurer is able to provide irrefutable evidence that the policy holder would have been 
aware of the leak or that the leak occurred during the previous insurers period of 
cover. It also said that unless Covea could provide evidence of a leak occurring 
within their policy period, it couldnt accept the claim, and Covea should be dealing 
with the claim in accordance with their terms and conditions. 
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service in February 2020. She's also told us 
that she feels very strongly that she's been put under considerable stress by to the 
dragged-out dispute. Her home has been at a standstill of upheaval, and shes been 
unable to move forward with the required repair and decoration. She says this has 
taken a toll on her as an alone, very elderly, relatively new widow in poor health. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint and issued her view on 24 March 
2020 not upholding the complaint on the basis that Mrs Rs current insurer, Covea, 
should cover the claim. However, as Covea has also declined the claim, the matter 
has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked closely at Integras handling and decision on Mrs Rs claim to see if it has 
acted in accordance with the terms of her policy and to see if it has treated her 
fairly. Ive set out my findings under the following headings: Ive set out my findings 
under the following headings: claim for escape of water; contribution towards cost of 
settling the claim; and compensation for upset and inconvenience.
claim for escape of water
Neither Integra, nor Covea, have expressly accepted that an insured event has taken 
place. But thats been assumed in correspondence between them and S. However, 
for the avoidance of doubt, Ive explained below why Im satisfied that an insured 
event has occurred.
Mrs Rs policy covers her for damage caused by an escape of water. Its clear from 
the available evidence, that a slow leak of water from her water tank located in the 
loft, caused the damage to her first-floor bathroom and adjacent linen cupboard. Its 
also clear from Mrs Rs plumbers testimony and the survey report provided by 
Covea, that the damage started during the period in which Integra was providing 
cover for the property.
Mrs Rs policy documents with Integra confirm that she was insured against loss or 
damage to her property by an escape of water as a result of a leaking water 
installation, for the period of 13 October 2018 to 12 October 2019. 
Integra declined Mrs Rs claim on the basis that she was covered by another insurer 
at the time she made the claim. Although, in most cases, we would expect the 
current insurer to take the lead on settling the claim and recover a contribution from the previous insurer, I dont think the way Integra handled Mrs Rs claim was fair or 
reasonable.
Integra was aware that Mrs R had already had her claim declined by Covea. It was 
also aware that Mrs R was vulnerable, and 80 years of age. It knew that Covea had 
only been on risk for 17 days, and the insured peril had likely been ongoing for many 
months. All this should have prompted Integra to take the claim forward for Mrs R 
and help her reach a position where her claim was paid, leaving the insurers to work 
out between themselves, what their contributions would be. Instead, Integra declined 
Mrs R's claim, and said in the absence of irrefutable evidence that the leak 
occurred in their period of cover, the claim must be dealt with by Covea. 
Understandably, Mrs R, an 80-year consumer, making her first claim, and feeling 
panicked about the damage that had been caused to her property, was more 
concerned about having the leak repaired, than obtaining irrefutable evidence to 
support her claim to Integra. And I note that neither Integra nor Covea, both being 
fully aware of the timing of the claim, sought to obtain this "irrefutable evidence" 
themselves.
Im also currently satisfied that given Mrs Rs age, medical condition, and residence 
in only the ground floor of her house, it was reasonable for her to discover the 
damage when she did, and Im satisfied that she didnt delay in having the leak 
repaired. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to attempt to decline her 
claim on the basis that the damage was caused by a gradually operating cause. 
In summary, although our usual approach would be that the current insurer lead on 
settling the claim and recover a contribution from the previous insurer, in these 
circumstances I dont think Integra acted fairly in declining Mrs Rs claim, given the 
events that her to approach them with her claim. 
contribution towards cost of settling the claim
Mrs Rs property has been continuously covered by an insurance policy for the 
insured event that she has suffered. So, her claim must be covered. The damage 
may have been discovered when Mrs R held cover with a different insurer, but the 
leak began during Integras period of cover. Our usual approach here would be for 
the current insurer, Covea, to deal with the claim and recover some costs 
from Integra (subject to the necessary proof being provided). But that's something 
that should be resolved between insurers, not something we expect policy holders, 
and certainly not vulnerable policy holders of 80 years of age, to become involved in. 
And this seems to be the issue that has led to eight months of unnecessary delays 
for Mrs R in having her fairly simple escape of water claim settled.
Integra has said that as there isnt any evidence of black mould in the photos, it cant 
be said for sure that the damage occurred while they were on risk. Covea has said 
that without clear evidence to show the damage only started after they were on risk 
they wouldnt accept the claim. But neither insurer has taken any steps to properly 
investigate the damage to ascertain when it likely started. The only evidence 
available to me is Mrs Rs plumbers observation that the damage was caused by a 
slow leak, occurring over a number of months and the surveyors report provided by 
Covea.
The broker emailed both insurers on 19 November 2019 to say, as we often do, we 
find ourselves in a tricky position with a claim registered shortly after inception. He also said Ther[e] is as I understand it no issue with the validity of the claim and for 
the customers benefit I need it to be resolved as soon as possible. He also re-stated 
Mrs Rs date of birth, highlighting her vulnerability. However, even this intervention 
didnt lead to a resolution of the matter.
Its clear to me from the email exchange between Integra and Covea, of November 
2019, that they're unable to agree and are refusing to settle this claim in the usual 
way. As Mrs R has already waited for eight months for this matter to be resolved, Im 
not going to delay matters further for her, by requiring additional investigations and 
enquiries to be carried out to determine what specific contribution can be attributed to 
each period of cover. Rather, Im intending to decide that Mrs Rs current insurer, 
Covea, is to take the lead on settling her claim, and Integra is to pay 50% of the costs 
of settling the claim.
compensation for upset and inconvenience 
As Ive emphasised throughout this decision, Mrs R is over 80 years old. When she 
called to report the escape of water and to get the assistance that she reasonably 
expected under her policy she didnt expect that shed, in her own words, end up the 
victim of a dispute between two Insurers and lose out completely on my simple right 
to claim.the very reason one takes out Insurance Cover.
Eight months after Mrs R first made her claim, she still finds herself in the situation, 
where, although shes continuously had cover in place, neither Integra, nor Covea, 
have accepted her claim. Rather, they have pointed to each other and told Mrs R that 
she would need to approach the other with her claim.
The policy terms and conditions, in the section headed General conditions about 
how to make a claim: 4. Other insurance say: If you have any other insurance 
covering anything insured by this policy we will pay only our share of any claim.
I understand that this provision is intended to apply to the situation where an insured 
party has two policies covering the same risk, running at the same time. However, its 
relevant to the circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint because it shows that Integra has 
anticipated circumstances arising where they will need to work out what their share of 
a claim is. So, I think it fair to conclude that Integra has some experience in working 
out what their fair share would be. However, in this case, when dealing with an 80-
year old consumer, who was making her first insurance claim, both Integra and 
Covea pointed to each other and expected Mrs R to resolve, on the basis on 
brief surveys and investigations, who should pay her claim.
Mrs R has repeatedly told us that its been a very worrying time for her, as she only 
has a pension and hasnt made a claim before. She said shes already had to pay the 
£250 excess and £600 to replace the water tank, and shes concerned that no one 
will be responsible for paying for the damage to be repaired. 
In her emails to our investigator, Mrs R has also said, This being such a testing time 
for so many, I feel I am being put under unnecessary extra anxiety by insurance 
cover companies. Not claiming special attention, yet I feel it only fair I am allowed to 
state that I certainly at 80 years of age come under the higher risk groups.plus 
living alone, being a widow with chronic ongoing health issues supports this 
statement of added stress.Im currently of the view that Mrs R has been caused significant trouble and upset by 
this situation. Integras handling of her claim has led to a prolonged period of worry 
and upset for Mrs R. 
Mrs R has been let down by both Integra, and Covea, at a time in her life when she is 
vulnerable, and the way her claim has been handled has undeniably caused her a 
great deal of worry and upset.
To compensate Mrs R for the upset and inconvenience shes been caused by the 
way her claim has been handled, Im intending to award £1,500 in total, with Integra 
and Covea each paying £750 compensation, for the impact their actions have had on 
Mrs R. 
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Integra to pay Covea 50% of the 
claim costs Covea incurs in settling Mrs Rs claim and pay her £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its claim decisions. 
Mrs R replied to confirm that she accepted my provisional decision. 
In their response Integra said:
in their view, the distress and inconvenience suffered solely lies with the actions of 
Covea which were not in line with best market practice, or our guidance for when 
these situations arise;
when they were initially notified of the incident on 13 November 2019, because there 
was no live policy, no claim was registered, so they advised Mrs R of their position 
and transferred her to S who they believe contacted Covea;
they had no further contact until 20 December 2019 when they spoke with S and 
agreed to register the claim and complaint at the same time;
they believe Covea should have handled the claim and approached them for a 
contribution if they deemed it appropriate;
if theyd been the insurer on risk at the time the incident was identified, Integra says 
they wouldnt have hesitated to deal with the claim and then attempt to pursue a 
contribution from Covea;
they accept Mrs R wouldnt have been aware of the ongoing leak and say action was 
taken without delay once she discovered the problem. On that basis, and by applying 
our own guidance, Integra believes that supports their position and its Coveas 
actions that werent in keeping with best market practice or guidance from our office;
they cannot see how it can be concluded that theyve acted unfairly. While they 
accept that Mrs R has suffered delays, distress and inconvenience, they dont believe 
their role in this is equivalent to the actions of Covea. They say that in their view, a 
50% split for any compensation deemed appropriate is therefore disproportionate; 
and
in an effort to amicably resolve matters, they will accept 50% of the claim costs in 
light of the evidence available. They say that is how matters should have been 
handled by Covea from the outset and in line with their previous approach.Ive taken these comments into account in making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Integra have now said that they would agree to pay 50% of the costs of settling Mrs Rs 
claim. Its disappointing that Integra and Covea couldnt have come to that arrangement nine 
months ago, without the need for this services involvement. The time to negotiate how the 
claim could be settled between them was in October or November last year.
However, Integra has said that on the basis of our guidance, I should have concluded that 
Covea was responsible for settling Mrs Rs claim and that Coveas actions have had greater 
impact on Mrs R, so Covea should pay the majority of the compensation for the upset and 
worry and inconvenience Mrs R has suffered. 
Integra has also said they cannot see how it can be concluded that they acted unfairly. While 
they accept that Mrs R has suffered delays, distress and inconvenience, they dont believe 
their role in this is equivalent to the actions of Covea. They say that in their view, a 50% split 
for any compensation deemed appropriate is therefore disproportionate.
Id first clarify that our guidance is just that, guidance. We dont expect businesses to simply 
apply our guidance, as if it were a set of rules, without considering the specific needs and 
circumstances of their customer. As I explained in my provisional decision, Mrs R is an 
elderly, vulnerable consumer, who approached Integra after her claim had been declined by 
Covea. In treating a customer fairly and reasonably, their individual circumstances need to 
be considered, and that is what Integra failed to do for Mrs R, leading to a prolonged period 
of worry and concern, living in a damaged property, that still hasnt been resolved. In these 
circumstances Integra needed to do more to help Mrs R. Instead, it sent her away, back to 
Covea, and it was only when she raised a complaint in December 2019, that Integra set up a 
claim and gave her a response to her complaint. And even then, they acknowledged that the 
leak had continued for only 17 days into Coveas period of cover, but still refused to assist 
without Mrs R providing irrefutable evidence to show how much of the damage had 
occurred during their period of cover.
Id also add that this decision is not concerned with which insurer gave Mrs R better or worse 
service. It is about whether Integra acted fairly in the way it treated Mrs R and handled her 
claim, and whether its actions have caused her stress, worry and inconvenience that should 
be compensated for.
Both insurers have significantly contributed to the stress, upset, worry, delay and 
inconvenience Mrs R has suffered as a result of the way theyve handled her claim. I 
therefore remain of the view that Mrs R should be awarded total compensation of £1,500 
with Integra and Covea each paying £750, for the impact their actions have had on Mrs R. 
So, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Integra to put things right for 
Mrs R, as detailed below.
Putting things right
I require Integra Insurance Solutions Limited to:
pay Mrs Rs current insurer, Covea Insurance plc 50% of the claims costs it incurs in 
settling Mrs Rs claim; andpay Mrs R £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by 
its handling of her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Integra Insurance Solutions 
Limited to pay the award Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman