DRN-3780051
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, (Tesco) 
has unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs M, along with her husband, attended a sales presentation by a business Ill call  
Business E, during which they were told about a way of getting out of their existing 
timeshare. They say they were told that they could pay Business E to arrange the 
termination of the timeshare, but at the same time they had to buy some credits they could 
use to get discounted holidays with another business, Ill call Business T. The total cost 
was £11,912.46. Mr and Mrs M paid Business E £1,912.46 using Mrs Ms Tesco credit card 
and the rest was paid by bank transfer from their joint account to Business T.1
Mr and Mrs M said Business E didnt terminate their existing timeshare and they didnt get 
the discounted holidays they thought theyd get through Business T. Mr and Mrs M say 
Business E either misrepresented what it offered or was in breach of contract for not doing 
what it should have done under the agreement. As Mr and Mrs M had paid Business E partly 
using a credit card, they asked Tesco to refund the full purchase price as they felt Tesco was 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation under s.75 CCA.
But Tesco turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim as it said it thought there was evidence that 
Business E had terminated the timeshare agreement on their behalf. And it said that, as 
Mr and Mrs M paid Business T by bank transfer and not by using a credit card, it wasnt 
responsible under s.75 CCA for anything Business T might have done wrong. Unhappy with 
its response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should have been upheld. 
They thought the two agreements were sufficiently linked, and as there was a 
misrepresentation that Mr and Mrs M would have easily been able to terminate their 
timeshare, they could claim back all of the monies paid for both agreements.
Tesco reconsidered its position and said that it accepted that Mr and Mrs Ms timeshare   
hadnt been terminated. So, it agreed to pay back the £1,912.46 that had been paid to 
Business E, along with associated charges and interest. But it still didnt think it could be  
liable for the £10,000 paid to Business T. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept Tescos offer, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, although I thought the outcome our investigator reached was 
broadly fair, I thought that for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision setting out 
my thoughts and asked both parties for any further comments.
1 Only Mrs M is an eligible complainant to our service, as the credit card used was hers. But as both  
Mr and Mrs M went through the purchase process together, and have complained together, I have 
referred to both of them in this decision.
I started by explaining that in this complaint I thought it was important to first set out what I 
found Mr and Mrs M agreed to, with which business and whether they have any cause of 
action against those businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I then looked 
at whether that was something Tesco needed to consider given the legal relationships 
between the parties. Finally, if I found Tesco had to consider any claim, I said Id think about 
whether it had properly done so.
Mr and Mrs Ms agreements
I looked at the available documents to see what it was that Mr and Mrs M agreed and with 
what business.
I started by looking at a document dated 5 April 2016 on Business E headed paper. It read:
Details of purchase:
[Business E] Admin cost for the relinquishment of:
[timeshare]
Enroll [sic] in Dial & Exchange FOC
Payment £1,950.00 05.04.162
On the same day, Mr and Mrs M signed a document, again on Business E headed paper,
that read:
I/We give permission to allow Business E to arrange for the termination of ownership 
stated below.
I/We give Business E permission to pass on our details to your legal partner, should 
they be required in the termination process of the ownership below.
Ownership
[Timeshare]
I/We understand that the process of ownership termination will start upon completion 
of the Purchase Contract.
I/We understand that we will no longer be liable for maintenance fees or transfer
costs once the relinquishment or termination has taken place.
I saw an undated agreement on Business T headed paper stating that Mr and Mrs M were 
buying 50,000 travel credits for £10,000 and they were given details of a bank account they 
needed to make payment to. The account name was neither Business E, nor Business T. 
There was a Business T headed document called Product Essentials that gave an overview  
of how the travel credits worked, including:
Will give discount up to 70% on most [Business T] Holidays, Tours, Car hire and 
package holidays
2 Having seen Mrs Ms credit card statement, she paid slightly less than the price set out on the
contract (£1,912.46 instead of £1,950). I wasnt entirely sure why she paid less, but I didnt think it 
made a difference for the purpose of this decision.There was another letter on Business E headed paper that read:
Please accept this letter as confirmation that you have the option after 3 years, to 
market and resell your [Business T] credits.
You can do this directly yourselves or we will assist you through our resale network.
Finally, I saw another undated agreement between Mr and Mrs M and a claims management 
company (CMC) in which the CMC was to undertake the termination of their timeshare. 
There was a further fee to be paid of £150 if the CMC obtained termination of the timeshare 
agreement, but the definition of termination included the CMC being satisfied it had 
terminated the timeshare. There was an invoice from the CMC, made out to Mr and Mrs M
for £150, dated 19 June 2017.
Having looked at all of the documentation, I didnt think it was clear what Mr and Mrs M 
bought or from which business. For example, it wasnt clear whether they bought Business T 
travel credits from Business T or from the entity named on the bank account they paid. So I 
thought it would be helpful to set out separately the things Mr and Mrs M thought they were 
getting, what I found the terms of the agreements were, and whether I thought they may 
have been any breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Timeshare termination
I considered what Mr and Mrs M said about the agreements when they first made claims. In 
their first letter of claim, they said: 
My claim is made on the grounds that the service purchased was not delivered and I 
have been unable to resolve my complaint with the supplier
In addition to the cost of the item, I would also like to claim the additional amount of 
£10,000 for the consequential lossespayment in respect of additional travel 
services to be provided by an associate companywhich again did not prove to be 
what was offered, and which I was required to purchase as part of the deal
In another letter sent directly to Tesco by Mr and Mrs M, they said:
The deal was offered in two parts:-
First, through [Business E] paying for a legal company to assist us with our 
termination at a cost of £1,950.
Second, through their partner company [Business T], purchase of £10,000 worth of 
travel credits which will be used to reduce future holiday expenses by 70%...
After some time we were contacted by [CMC] who said they were the agents 
appointed to arrange the termination and we provided the documentation as 
requestedthere is NO indication that the timeshare company CLC have agreed to 
the termination. We also received correspondence from CLC advising that the 
documentation submitted is faulty and not legal.
As regards the travel company we made a number of approaches asking for quotes 
for holidays. However, the figures with which we were provided were far more 
expensive than those which we could obtain from our local travel agency We feel 
that neither of these companies have provided the service we were promisedFinally, in a letter later sent to Tesco on their behalf, it was said:
our client was advised by [Business E] that they were authorised to conduct 
timeshare relinquishments by [the timeshare provider]. This is not true
[Business E] led them to believe that the relinquishment service would be straight 
forward and was a procedural matter. In truth, all that has happened is that our client 
has been told to stop making payments to [the timeshare provider] and forward any 
correspondence to [the CMC].
I also listened to a call between our investigator and Mr and Mrs M. They explained that 
Business E said they would be able to terminate their timeshare, but part of the deal was 
that they would need to buy the Business T travel credits  they said they thought they were 
all part and parcel of the deal. Mr and Mrs M said Business E already knew they were 
timeshare members and that they had other timeshare holders approaching them for 
relinquishment services.
I saw a letter sent by the timeshare provider to Mr and Mrs M dated 4 February 2017, in 
which it said it had received correspondence from the CMC. It said the CMC had been 
sending identical letters for around two years and it had told the CMC in February 2015 that 
it was not accepting any surrender or relinquishment in this manner. Despite this, the 
timeshare provider noted that the CMC was continuing to tell people it was successful in 
terminating memberships, which wasnt true. The timeshare provider said it had ways to 
terminate the agreement without any additional cost and said it could do so if Mr and Mrs M 
communicated directly.
Having considered everything, I thought Mr and Mrs M engaged Business E to arrange for 
the termination of their existing timeshare and Mr M paid Business E directly for this using 
her credit card. It appeared that Business E was paid for its administration costs in doing 
that and Mr and Mrs M agreed for their details to be passed to their legal partner if required. 
From the evidence Id seen, I thought it was clear that the CMC were in fact that legal  
partner as Mr and Mrs M said the CMC got in touch with them afterwards and said they had 
been appointed to do so. In addition, the CMCs documentation makes mention of 
Business E, so I thought they were linked. No mention of any further payment being required 
was set out in the agreement, so it wasnt clear to me whether Mr and Mrs M would have 
expected to have been charged anything further by the CMC.
The agreement with Business E was for it to arrange for the termination of ownership, so I 
thought that needed to happen to conclude that Business E fulfilled its side of the agreement 
 there was no caveat that permitted Business E to use its best endeavours or similar to try 
to terminate the timeshare, rather it was to arrange termination. Business E purported to do  
so by using the CMC, however I didnt think it was successful for two reasons. First, the 
CMC wished to enter a separate agreement with Mr and Mrs M in which it agreed to act for 
them and expected to be paid when it determined the timeshare was terminated. But that 
agreement appeared to be separate to anything already agreed with Business E, so I 
couldnt see that any steps to terminate the agreement were taken under the agreement with 
Business E .Secondly, the timeshare agreement wasnt terminated. It followed, I thought 
Business E breached its contract with Mr and Mrs M.
When Mr and Mrs M first contacted Tesco, they were concerned that they hadnt got the 
services they paid for under the agreement. But later Mr and Mrs M obtained some advice and a further claim was made on their behalf.3 At that stage a different argument was made, 
namely that misrepresentations were made that induced them to enter into the agreement. 
I noted that for there to be a misrepresentation there needed to be an untrue statement of 
fact or law made by one party to another, which induces the party receiving the statement to 
enter a contract thereby causing them loss. A statement of opinion can be a  
misrepresentation if the opinion amounts to a statement of fact and it can be proved that the 
person who made it didnt hold that opinion or couldnt reasonably have held it.
Here I said there were several potential misrepresentations  that Business E was 
authorised by the timeshare provider to conduct relinquishments, that the relinquishment 
was straight forward and that it was a procedural matter. But I also thought there was a  
representation made by Business E that it was able to relinquish the timeshare on 
Mr and Mrs Ms behalf.
I thought it was difficult to know precisely what was said at the time of sale and I noted that 
these allegations were only put forward by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives and not 
mentioned by them directly in their letters to Tesco or in the call with our investigator. I 
couldnt see anything in the sales documentation to suggest that Business E was holding 
itself out as being authorised by the timeshare provider to handle relinquishment requests. 
But I didnt think it would be likely that it did so, as Business E explained it might need to use 
a legal partner in the termination, which didnt fit with it being authorised to act for the 
timeshare suppliers.
Similarly, I thought the large administration fee, plus the possible need for legal referral, 
indicated that terminating a timeshare wasnt straight forward or just procedural. Further, I 
wasnt satisfied that those alleged representations could amount to statement of facts that 
could give rise to actionable misrepresentations. I thought those statements were more 
sales puff or a sales pitch explaining why Business E would be able to provide what it 
agreed to.
However, I did think it was more likely than not that Business E told Mr and Mrs M that it was 
able to get them out of their timeshare. That was a statement of fact and I said I simply didnt 
think that was true. Business E said it might have to use its legal partner in the termination 
process and, in reality, I couldnt see Business E did anything apart from pass 
Mr and Mrs Ms details over to the CMC. But the CMC knew at the time that the timeshare 
provider was not accepting any termination requests that it raised.
I also thought it was more likely than not that Business E must have known that it couldnt 
secure Mr and Mrs Ms release from their timeshare or that it had no reasonable grounds for 
believing that it could do so. I said that as Business E described the CMC as its legal 
partner and was essentially subcontracting its work to the CMC. Given the close working 
relationship between Business E and the CMC, I thought it was likely that Business E knew 
that the timeshare provider said that it had not, and would not, accept any termination 
through the CMC. But I said that even if I was wrong about that, and the CMC hadnt told 
Business E this, Business E would still need to have reasonable grounds to believe it could 
(through the use of the CMC) get Mr and Mrs M out of their timeshare. If Business E never 
asked the CMC how likely it was that timeshare memberships could be terminated, I couldnt 
see how it could have any reasonable grounds to believe it could procure termination. And if 
Business E had asked the CMC this, and the CMC hadnt been truthful, if Business E had 
never successfully used the CMC to get anybody out the timeshare membership that Mr and 
Mrs M had, as the timeshare provider said was the case, I couldnt see how Business E 
3 Mrs M was no longer represented at the date of the provisional decision, nor at the date of this final 
decisioncould have reasonably held the belief that it could get Mr and Mrs M out of their timeshare. 
So, in conclusion, I thought either Business E knew it couldnt get Mr and Mrs M out of the 
timeshare or it had no reasonable grounds to believe it could.
Travel credits
Mr and Mrs M bought 50,000 Business T travel credits and paid for those by transfer from 
their joint current account. The documentation that I saw didnt make clear which business or 
legal entity was to provide services under this agreement. Based on all of the evidence I 
saw, I thought Business E arranged the sale of these points and Business E held itself out 
as being able to help sell the points again in the future. But I couldnt see that Business E 
received any payment, so I didnt think it was entering into any contract in its own name to 
provide the Business T travel credits or the benefits available to buy with those credits.  
Rather, I thought it was likely acting as an agent for Business T to create an agreement 
between that business and Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt get what theyd been promised by taking out Business T travel 
credits. But I thought it was clear that anything offered by Business T wasnt actually 
provided by Business E. In other words, I couldnt see that Business E could be held 
responsible for a breach of contract due to Business Ts failures. And I didnt think Mr and 
Mrs Ms contract with Business E was breached by Business T failing to do what it should 
have done under the separate contract. Its possible Mr and Mrs M have a claim for breach 
of contract against Business T, but for other reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
didnt think that was something Tesco had to answer.
It was said by Mr and Mrs M that Business E told them things about the benefits of 
Business T travel credits when they decided to buy them. In particular it said that they would 
get cheaper holidays. Mr and Mrs M provided screenshots to show that they could get the 
same holidays on the open market for less than they would pay if they used their travel 
credits. 
I considered whether any misrepresentations were made by Business E about Business T 
credits. Mr and Mrs M say they were told they could reduce future holiday expenses by 70%. 
So, I considered that representation and whether I thought there was something further that
needed to be considered by Tesco.
I said I had no reason to doubt the honesty of Mr and Mrs Ms memories of what they were 
told. But I didnt think there was enough evidence available to me to say the representations 
were untrue. The description of how Business T credits worked said there was a discount of 
up to 70% on most of Business Ts holidays, which I thought implied this was only for 
holidays Business T offered. And although I accepted that Mr and Mrs M might have been 
able to find better deals on the open market for some holidays, I wasnt able to say that 
Business T didnt offer some sort of discount from the full price against its own holidays or 
others it could arrange, albeit a smaller one. So, based on what I had seen I wasnt able to 
conclude that Business E misrepresented the benefits of Business T credits.
Was Tesco jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim 
against the creditor. So here, Mrs M (the debtor) was asking Tesco (the creditor) to
answer her claim (on her and her husbands behalf) for misrepresentation and breach of
contract over the problems I set out above.But I said this doesnt apply to every claim Mrs M may have. Tesco was only responsible for 
claims when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This is set out 
more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be arrangements in place 
so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card. In Mr and Mrs Ms 
case, Mrs M paid Business E directly, so I thought it wasnt in dispute that Tesco could be 
held jointly responsible for any claim of a breach of the contract with Business E or of a 
misrepresentation that led Mr and Mrs M into entering into an agreement with Business E.
However, I didnt think Tesco had to answer any claim for breach of contract by Business T. 
That was because anything supplied by Business T was outside of the arrangements 
between Mrs M, Business E and Tesco. Under the CCA, its possible Tesco would have to 
answer a claim if it could be shown Business E or T were associates (s.184 and s.187 
CCA). But nothing Id seen made me think they were associates under the Act. It followed, I 
didnt think Tesco needed to answer any claim for breach of contract by Business T as there 
wasnt a DCS agreement in place.
But Mr and Mrs M did enter into an agreement with Business E directly as set out above. 
And I didnt think it was in dispute that there was the right sort of DCS relationship, so Tesco 
could be jointly liable for any claim. So, I thought Tesco could be jointly liable for the breach 
of contract and misrepresentation claims made against Business E.
Did Tesco properly consider the claims?
Tesco previously said it didnt think there was sufficient evidence to accept the claim about 
Business E and that it wouldnt consider Mr and Mrs Ms claims about Business T as it didnt 
think there was a DCS agreement in place involving Business T. For the reasons set out 
above, I broadly agreed with Tesco and thought it acted fairly with respect to the Business T 
travel credits. But I did think it needed to assess Mr and Mrs Ms claims against Business E,
which it did following our investigators view.
Mr and Mrs M asked for a refund of what they paid. I said that is an outcome that normally 
follows a successful claim for misrepresentation and not for a breach of contract. For a 
breach of contract claim, damages are normally intended to put someone in the position they 
would have been in had the contract been properly performed without the breach. But I 
wasnt sure that would mean Mr and Mrs M would get back what they paid Business E. In a 
misrepresentation claim, such as the one Mr and Mrs M have also made, the remedy would 
be recission of the contract and damages to put them in the position they would have been 
in had the misrepresentation not been made. Tesco offered to refund what was paid to 
Business E with interest. But having considered everything, I didnt think that was a fair 
outcome to this complaint.
I explained that if I thought about what would have happened had Business E not 
misrepresented that it could get Mr and Mrs M out of their timeshare agreement, I didnt think 
they would have taken out their agreement with Business E, so I thought Tescos offer on 
that point was fair. But I also accepted that they were told that they needed to take out the 
travel credits with Business T too, and I didnt think they would have done that had they not 
also contracted with Business E. I said Mr and Mrs M had been consistent throughout that 
they believed both things they bought were part and parcel of the same deal and I found 
their recollections honest and believable. I thought Mr and Mrs Ms decision to enter into any 
agreement was based on their wish to get out of their existing timeshare and they wouldnt 
have bought the travel credits if they were available on their own. Mr and Mrs M had said 
they didnt use any of the credits, so I couldnt see that they got any benefit from the 
Business T agreement. Finally, I thought that any fees paid to the CMC were also a direct 
consequence of Business Es misrepresentations, so I thought they should be returned too.I also considered whether any of the maintenance fees paid by Mr and Mrs M after they 
contracted with Business E should be paid as a result of the misrepresentation. 
Mr and Mrs M provided statements to show that between March 2017 and August 2021, they 
paid £7,063.20 in maintenance fees toward their timeshare. This figure was likely to be less 
than they actually paid as I hadnt seen statements covering the full period between March 
2017 and December 2019, and I understood that fees were paid after August 2021. 
Having thought about what would have happened had Mr and Mrs M not contracted with 
Business E, I thought they would still have needed to pay their maintenance fees. I didnt 
think Business Es misrepresentations caused them to have to make further payments that 
they didnt already have a contractual duty to pay. But even if there was an argument that 
these fees could be repaid, I thought the letter from the timeshare provider from February 
2017 was important. It said Mr and Mrs M would be able to arrange termination directly and 
at no additional cost. So it was arguable that the payments made from February 2017 
onwards were done so by Mr and Mrs M at a time they knew they could have got out of the 
agreement without the use of Business E or the CMC, or at least that they should have 
explored this directly with the timeshare provider.4 Mr and Mrs M had a duty to mitigate their 
loss, which means they had to take reasonable steps to keep any financial losses as low as 
they could. Here they were told by the timeshare provider in February 2017 that they could 
cancel their timeshare if they spoke directly to it, so I wasnt satisfied paying maintenance 
fees the following month without exploring this was reasonable.
So in conclusion, I explained that I intended to uphold the complaint and set out what 
compensation I intended to direct Tesco to pay.
Mrs M responded to say she accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
Tesco responded to say it disagreed. It said it was unfair for me to uphold a claim purely on 
a consumers testimony and in the absence of other credible evidence in support. Tesco said 
there was no intrinsic link between the contract for timeshare termination (Contract E) and 
the contract for travel credits (Contract T) and nothing tangible to suggest that Contract T 
had to be entered into alongside Contract E.
Tesco argued that Contract T, on the face of it, appears to be an enticing prosect in its own 
right and its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M took it out to gain the benefits of the 
product. So it says Mr and Mrs M would have entered into Contract T regardless of 
Contact E. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
There is no evidence from Business E or Business T, and the only evidence there is from the 
time of sale is from Mr and Mrs M. They have provided all of the documentation from the 
4 I also thought this meant these fees wouldnt be recoverable under a breach of contract claimtime of sale, along with their memories. So when considering this claim, that is the only 
evidence there is available. I am mindful that their memories may not be an accurate 
representation of the precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So Ive had to weigh 
all of that up when deciding what I think most likely happened. I dont think it is unfair to 
Tesco to do so  ultimately I must decide the complaint in front of me based on the evidence 
available.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr and Mrs M bought timeshare termination services 
from Business E and Mrs M used her Tesco credit card to pay for it. I also dont think there is 
any dispute that on the same day Mr and Mrs M signed up for Business T travel credits.
Tesco hasnt argued that Business E didnt sell Business T travel credits, and for the 
avoidance of doubt, I think Business E did sell the credits. I say that based on both Mr and 
Mrs Ms recollections, the fact that the sales took place on the same day and because 
Business E explained that it can help resell the credits in the future. It follows that I think 
Business E would have talked with Mr and Mrs M about both the timeshare termination and 
travel credits. However, I do accept that the two contracts arent intrinsically linked in the 
sense that Business E and Business T are different and they dont appear to be associated 
as defined in the CCA. Further, there is nothing in the written documentation that states that 
both contracts had to be taken out together. 
But Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Ms reasons to contract with Business E. They say 
they wanted to get out of their existing timeshare agreement and that fits with the services 
they paid for. So I dont think its likely that at the same time they separately and coincidently 
wanted to purchase an additional holiday product, as they were actively trying to terminate a 
different holiday product. Ive thought again about Mr and Mrs Ms memories of the sale. 
They have been clear and consistent throughout that they were told by Business E that to 
get the timeshare termination services they had to also purchase the travel credits. There is 
nothing Ive seen in the other available evidence to contradict that and, on balance, I think 
Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are honest and truthful. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M would 
have chosen to buy the Business T travel credits but for their desire to get the timeshare 
termination services.
In my provisional decision, Ive explained why I thought there had been a misrepresentation 
and Tesco hasnt disagreed with what I said. As I thought the representation had been made 
by Business E knowing it was untrue, or that Business E had no reasonable grounds for 
believing it was true, it followed that Mrs M was entitled to recission of Contract E and 
damages to put her in the position she would have been in had the misrepresentation not 
been made. As Tesco didnt disagree with the way I suggested compensation should be 
worked out, I will not depart from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I direct Tesco to Pay Mrs M:
a sum equivalent to what she paid Business E using her Tesco credit card;5
a sum equivalent to what was paid by her and Mr M from their joint current account 
for the Business T contract;
5 In my provisional decision, I said Id direct Tesco to repay any interest, fees or charges on the credit 
card account as a result of the payment made to Business E. But Ive seen that Mrs M cleared her 
balance very shortly after making this payment and before the statement was prepared, so I cant see 
this payment caused any interest, fees or charges.a sum equivalent to anything paid to the CMC, on the basis that Mrs M is able to 
provide proof of payment to Tesco; and
add to those sums interest at the rate of 8% per annum, simple, from the date the 
payments were made to the date Tesco settles this complaint. By law Tesco needs to 
take tax from this amount, so it should provide Mrs M a certificate setting out how 
much tax has been paid should she ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank 
and direct it pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman