DRN-3175154
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his late mothers estate about HDI Global Speciality SEs (HDI) 
handling of a claim under her home building insurance. More specifically, he complains 
about the amount of disruption allowance paid by the company and the cost of work not 
included in the settlement payment.
What happened
In March 2018 a pipe burst in the loft at Mr Hs late mothers home. The water leak caused 
significant damage to several areas of her home and a claim was raised with HDI. It 
appointed contractors to commence drying out of the property, prior to the repairs getting 
underway. 
HDI suggested contractors it would like to appoint to carry out the repairs. However, Mr H 
decided he would like to use local contractors closer to the property. A cash settlement was 
then agreed to pay for the repairs. This was based on quotations Mr H provided for the work.      
Mr H says there was a delay in the settlement payment being made by HDI and the drying 
process took longer to complete than estimated. He describes difficulties and delays in 
arranging for contractors to carry out the work, and with the quality of the work completed. 
He also says that additional work was required that was not included within the settlement 
payment.  
Mr H explains that his late mother had health issues, which meant her home was 
uninhabitable to her, for a significant period of time.    
HDI says it isnt responsible for delays or the standard of work completed by Mr Hs 
appointed contractors. After the drying work was completed it estimated the repair work 
could be carried out within 12 weeks. It offered a disturbance allowance for the period Mr Hs 
late mother would be unable to live at home. This was calculated at £75 per week, over a 
period of 38 weeks. It felt this was fair given its estimate that work would be completed well 
within this timeframe. 
Mr H doesnt agree that HDIs offer was fair. One of our investigators looked into the matter 
and upheld the complaint. He felt the companys disturbance offer was fair, based on its 
timing estimate of the work required. And found that it had fairly agreed to pay for the 
additional work on provision of receipts. However, the investigator identified HDI had 
incorrectly calculated the disturbance payment at £2,700. He upheld the complaint on the 
basis this should have been £2,850.    
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this is not the answer he wanted, 
but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Before I begin, Mr H has another complaint considering the initial handling of the claim and 
a delay in providing a settlement payment. I will not be commenting on the points already 
dealt with.   
Disturbance allowance
Once HDI had accepted the claim for damages, it suggested several contractors to carry 
out the repair work. Mr H didnt want to use these contractors. The reasons behind this are 
discussed in his other complaint. Mr H decided to accept a settlement payment from HDI 
and to employ his own contractors. This means he was then responsible for arranging the 
repairs.
HDI employed a specialist company to carry out the drying work. This began in March 
2018. According to HDI this concluded in the first half of May. Mr H says the drying took 
longer than this, and up until June 2018 to complete. Which is the point when the repairs 
could have commenced. He says he didnt appoint his own contractor until he was in 
possession of the settlement payment in mid-August 2018. This delayed the work from 
commencing. 
Mr Hs contractor began work in the second half of October 2018. From here he has 
described the various issues and unforeseen work that occurred. He says this shows the 
repair would always have taken longer than HDIs estimate. Mr H says the property wasnt 
safe for his late mother to return to until much later in September 2019, because of her 
health issues.
 
I have thought about the estimate HDI gave for work to be completed, and how Mr Hs 
experience in arranging the repairs, compares to this.  
Mr H describes several issues he encountered when arranging the repairs. This includes: 
waiting for sub-contractors to become available; getting trades people to commit to do the 
work; poor quality work - particularly tiling that needed to be re-done; additional areas of 
plaster that came off the wall when the wallpaper was stripped, and damage caused to old 
plaster by the industrial dryers which meant additional plastering work. 
Mr H also says a bricklayer had to be employed to re-build the top layer of wall between 
the kitchen and the bedroom. He says the mortar had become like dust, which again 
wasnt factored into HDIs assessment or timings for the repairs. 
HDI originally estimated it would take 12 weeks to complete the repair work, once the 
drying had been completed. If I accept drying was complete at the beginning of June 2018 
(around 14 weeks after the leak occurred), this means work will have completed in 
approximately 26 weeks. 
The settlement payment was delayed. If I say this took six weeks longer than it should, this 
takes the completion of works to 32 weeks.    
I dont think poor quality workmanship can be factored into the overall repair time. HDI didnt employ the contractors so I dont think its fair to hold it responsible for this. 
Its likely that additional time and effort was required for Mr H to contact tradespeople and 
arrange for work to be completed, compared to the time HDI would need to instruct its 
contractors. However, I must recognise it was Mr Hs decision to arrange completion of the 
works himself.  
HDI offered 38 weeks payment, which means six weeks remain for the additional 
plastering works, brickwork and decorating. 
Taking all this into account I think the 38-week disruption period still allows for the delays 
and additional work Mr H encountered. 
I note that Mr Hs late mother was able to stay with her daughter during the repairs. He 
says other accommodation such as a hotel, wouldnt have been suitable given her health 
requirements. Im glad that suitable accommodation was able to be provided by her family. 
And I think its fair that HDI provide compensation for the period of the disruption due to the 
repair work. 
I think HDIs offer of £75 per week was reasonable. Mr H doesnt dispute the weekly rate 
but does dispute the period allowed for this calculation. However, for the reasons given 
above I think this period was fair. 
Mr H says plaster needs to dry out for up to nine months before decorating can take place. 
I dont dispute this. But I dont think this means the property couldnt have been made 
habitable whilst areas of plaster dried out. Decoration could presumably have taken place 
later. If Mr Hs late mother couldnt remain in her home whilst decorating occurred, the 38-
week period still allows for that. 
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded that HDI has acted unfairly in the amount it 
offered for the disturbance payment.      
One final point is that HDI said the disturbance payment was calculated at £75 per week 
for 38 weeks. This amounts to £2,850. However, it made an error in its response to Mr H 
when it said this amounted to £2,700. I think its clear the payment was intended to be 
calculated at £75 per week for 38 weeks, which was clearly stated in the letter. 
I understand this payment has yet to be provided in light of the ongoing dispute. I dont 
think this error has had an impact and isnt a reason to uphold the complaint.   
Additional costs 
Mr H highlights the cost of work not included in the initial payment. This includes the 
additional plastering work that was required. He says the company hasnt been 
forthcoming in communicating with him on this point or his dispute around the disruption 
payment.
HDI says liability for the additional plastering isnt in dispute and it will provide payment on 
receipt of the relevant invoice(s). It says it attempted contact with Mr H on several 
occasions to arrange a meeting to discuss these points. I note Mr Hs comments that at no 
point was he unwilling to discuss any matters with HDI. He feels he is being made out to be 
uncooperative, when this is not the case. 
I have read all the correspondence. From this I cant reasonably conclude that one or the 
other party has been uncommunicative or obstructive in the dealings relating to the claim. However, its clear the relationship has broken down. This has been a difficult time for Mr 
H, and I can understand his frustrations. However, HDI did confirm it would pay the 
additional costs on provision of receipts. I think this is fair.
In summary, I think HDIs offer of a disruption payment calculated over a period of 38 
weeks, and to pay for the additional work, is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to 
resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
HDI responded to say it had no further comments to add. 
Mr H has provided detailed, substantial correspondence setting out his concerns. I have 
read this in full. A brief summary of his further comments is set out below:
Mr H says the policy doesnt restrict the number of weeks a disruption payment can be made 
over. He says the policy terms say HDI will not ask a customer to return to their home if 
there is no lighting, heating, running water or a functioning toilet. He also says by only 
allowing a disruption allowance over 38 weeks, HDI is acting against its policy terms. 
Mr H is concerned that my decision is setting a precedent for future claims that is unfair and 
impractical. He doesnt think sufficient consideration was given to his late mothers disability. 
Mr H thinks my decision is effectively asking a blind and deaf person to return to an obstacle 
course, because the repairs werent completed in the timeframe HDI had confirmed of 38 
weeks. 
Mr H says the disruption payment should be extended, because of the additional work that 
wasnt factored into the initial 38-week estimate. He says this involved replastering and the 
top section of a wall that required re-building. Mr H says furniture had to be stored in other 
rooms whilst work continued. He says it wasnt practicable for his late mother to return to her 
home, during the ongoing repair works, because of this.
Mr H says the 38-week time frame was estimated and it should be subject to change if 
problems arise or additional work is identified. He says it wasnt explained that the disruption 
payment was limited to this period. Mr H says the only limit in the policy terms relates to the 
maximum payable for alternative accommodation.  
Mr H also refers to contact from HDI regarding the additional work that was needed. He 
doesnt think it tried to contact him as it said it did.
Mr H says HDI didnt make it clear to his contractor how long it expected the job to take. He 
says HDI didnt make it clear the contractor would be responsible for disruption payments if 
the repairs took longer than its estimate. Mr H concludes his letter to again say the 38-week 
period did not include the additional work that was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered Mr Hs comments in detail, the main point he makes is that his late 
mother was not capable of returning to her home until the repair work was complete. He 
thinks the disruption payment should reflect the time it took for him to arrange these repairs. 
I absolutely understand the point he is making here. I was fully aware of his late mothers 
health conditions when writing my decision, which he made clear in his original complaint. I 
certainly wasnt suggesting it was reasonable for the late Mrs H to have returned to her 
home when it wasnt appropriate to do so. What I considered was whether the 38-week 
period, HDI allowed for the disruption payment, was reasonable. 
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that additional time and effort was required for Mr 
H to contact tradespeople and arrange for work to be completed. But I also said that it was 
Mr Hs decision to arrange completion of the works himself. As above, HDI calculated its 
disruption payment offer based on the time it would take its contractors to complete the 
work. Having considered the initial delay in providing the settlement payment, the drying 
work and all required repairs, this still reasonably allowed a further six weeks for the 
additional plastering, rebuilding a section of wall and for decorating. 
Mr H has described the causes of the delays he faced, including getting tradesmen to 
commit to the work and waiting on subcontractors amongst other issues. This all added to 
the time taken for his contractors to carry out the repairs. Its unfortunate that Mr H 
experienced problems and delays when arranging for the repair work to be completed 
himself. But I dont think hes reasonably shown the timeframe HDI estimated to carry out 
repairs was unfair. 
My decision isnt intended to set a precedent in the way Mr H has suggested. I dont think 
HDI has been unfair in how it has handled Mr Hs claim. But any complaint considered by 
this service is done so on its own merits. My findings here are specific to the evidence and 
circumstances relating to Mr Hs complaint. 
Regarding Mr Hs concerns about the lack of communication for the cost of additional 
repairs, I discussed this point in my provisional decision. I said I couldnt reasonably 
conclude from the evidence provided that either HDI or Mr H had been uncommunicative or 
obstructive. Mr H hasnt provided more information or comment that reasonably changes my 
decision on this point. 
Finally, Mr H refers to HDI not informing his contractor about the timeframe in which it 
expected work to be completed. And that it didnt tell his contractor it would be responsible 
for disruption payments if the work took longer. I have thought about this point. But it was Mr 
H who appointed the contractor. The agreement was between he and it, including any 
agreement regarding completion dates. I dont reasonably think this was something HDI was 
responsible for.
In summary I think the period over which HDI calculated its disruption payment, and its offer 
to pay for the additional work was fair. The comments Mr H provided hasnt changed my 
view on this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman