DRN-3947670
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the sale of a timeshare product, which was financed by a loan 
provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner 
Finance and which Ill call BPF. Mrs D is represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill refer 
to as N.  
What happened
N says that Mr and Mrs D were contacted in or around November 2005 by a holiday 
company, M. M said that Mr and Mrs D had expressed an interest in holiday products and 
that it was contacting them because of that. Mrs D had no recollection of expressing any 
interest in timeshare products, but she and her family nevertheless agreed to take up an 
offer of a holiday in Mallorca the following July. 
In the course of that holiday Mr and Mrs D attended a presentation, during which the benefits 
of timeshare arrangements were explained to them. In particular, the presentation focused 
on a timeshare resort run by M in Mallorca. 
Mrs D says that, until they arrived at the presentation, they were not aware that it was a 
sales presentation. They felt pressured into agreeing to buy. When they said they were not 
interested, they were offered a significant discount, as long as they agreed to buy the same 
day. Even when they left the presentation, a manager contacted them shortly afterwards 
offering a further discount. They agreed to purchase, paying just over £1,000 by credit card 
and the balance with a loan. 
According to BPF, Mr and Mrs D bought a timeshare interest in the resort in Mallorca in 
August 2007. Mrs D took out a loan to finance the purchase in November 2007. I note the 
apparent discrepancy in the date of the presentation (July 2006) and the date of the 
purchase and loan (August and November 2007). 
In March 2021 N contacted BPF on behalf of Mrs D with a letter of claim. N said that Mrs D 
was seeking relief under sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In 
summary, N said that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship between Mrs D and 
BPF because of the actions of M at the time of sale. M had been in breach of relevant 
timeshare legislation in force at the time and contrary to industry guidance. Specifically, it 
had:
taken payment within the cooling-off period;
failed to tell Mr and Mrs D that they were attending a sales event;  
not provided for the contract price to be paid in instalments;
used high pressure sales tactics and not accepted no for an answer; and 
said that the offer was only available for a limited time.  
In addition, the contract appeared to allow M to increase the management fee at its own 
discretion, in breach of relevant consumer protection legislation.
N said that Mrs D was seeking reimbursement of all sums paid under the loan agreement 
and the reimbursement of management fees.   
N said expressly that its letter was a letter of claim, not a letter of complaint. That is, it was 
written in preparation for legal action, not with a view to referring things to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
BPF did not accept the claim. It said, in summary: 
the Limitation Act 1980 prevented Mrs D from bringing a claim about events which had 
occurred some 14 years earlier;
the ombudsman did not have power to make an order under section 140B;
in any event, it would not be fair or reasonable for an ombudsman to uphold the 
complaint; and
Mrs D could refer the matter to this service if she wished to do so.  
The complaint was referred to this service, where an investigator considered what had 
happened. She was broadly in agreement with BPF and so did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. N did not agree and asked on behalf of Mrs D that the matter be 
reviewed.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Ds referral of the complaint
I shall discuss first the letter of claim. As I have indicated, N expressly said that its letter was 
intended to be a prelude to court action, not to a referral of a complaint to the ombudsman 
service. Nevertheless, it was in my view a complaint (as defined in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook), so I think BPF was right to treat it as such and to provide referral 
rights as it did. Be that as it may, N has referred the matter to this service, rather than to a 
court. 
I also note that Ns submissions appear to say that the sale of the timeshare product took 
place in or around July 2006, following a presentation, but that BPFs records show a 
purchase in August 2007. Mrs D and N may wish to clarify in their response to this 
provisional decision: (i) when the presentation took place; (ii) when the timeshare agreement 
was signed; (iii) when and how any advance payment was made; and (iv) when the loan was 
taken out. 
I note that Mrs D does not appear to suggest that she and her husband did not get the 
timeshare product they paid for. Nor has she suggested that the timeshare product was in 
any way misrepresented to them. They appear to have had the benefit of the timeshare 
property they bought for several years, largely without complaint (although there was an 
issue several years ago about management fees charged when their timeshare week had 
been sold). 
Rather, Mrs Ds complaint is that the actions of M in selling the timeshare product (and in 
particular its alleged breach of timeshare legislation and codes and of consumer protection 
legislation) meant that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship between her and 
BPF.   
The Consumer Credit Act 1974Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether a loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship, a court can consider matters in connection with a related agreement  which in 
my view includes in this case the agreement for the purchase of the timeshare itself.  
In addition, under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. I believe 
that M was acting as a broker, and so any statements it made in connection with the sale 
and the loan are to be taken as statements of BPF  subject to clarification from Mrs D of the 
apparent discrepancy in dates.   
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. As far as I am aware, the loan agreement 
has not been repaid, but the parties can tell me in their response if it has. 
As BPF noted in its response to N, sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
expressly give powers to a court, not to an ombudsman. Those sections are nevertheless 
relevant law which I believe I must take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.  
There is no suggestion here that the terms of the loan agreement itself created an unfair 
relationship, and I dont believe they did. I must therefore consider what has been said about 
the timeshare agreement. I have been provided with a copy of the general terms and 
conditions relating to the timeshare. They say expressly that the timeshare contract is 
subject to Spanish law and include (in English) extracts of relevant Spanish law as it relates 
to cancellation, the taking of payments, and the effect of termination on any connected 
loans. The loan agreement itself is subject to English law. 
Breaches of timeshare law
Much of the law relating to timeshares and long term holiday products derives from EU 
legislation. I have approached this complaint therefore on the basis that Spanish and UK law 
in that area give consumers similar protection, although its likely that there will be some 
differences, since member states put EU Directives into national law in different ways. It is 
open to the parties to make submissions on that point if they believe there are differences 
that are material in this case. But, since Ns submissions mostly concern the position under 
UK law, I will address its arguments on that basis. 
Relevant UK law at the time of the sale included, as well as the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended by the Timeshare Regulations 1997) and the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999. N has also referred to: the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008; The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010; and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. None of 
these was in force in 2007, however. 
The Timeshare Act provided that a buyer must be given no less than 14 days in which to 
cancel the contract. The Act also prohibited a seller from taking advance payments during 
the cancellation period. The extracts of Spanish law attached to the sale contract indicate 
that similar provisions apply in Spanish law, although the cancellation period is shorter.
I am not persuaded that any payments were taken during the cancellation period, however. 
The purchase contract was dated 11 August 2007 and included cancellation rights, which 
would have expired on or around 25 August 2007. The loan agreement was dated 21 November 2007, the date when BPF would have paid M. N has said that an additional  
payment was made by credit card at the time the contract was signed, but that appears to 
refer to events in July 2006, not August 2007. 
But, even if an advance payment was taken, the effect under the Timeshare Act is that the 
payee has committed an offence. Under Spanish law, the buyer is entitled to the return of 
twice the amount paid and to an extended cancellation period, if they want to cancel. Mr and 
Mrs D, however, have continued with the timeshare contract for many years. Neither 
Spanish nor UK law says that the contract is, for example, void or unenforceable if a 
payment is taken early. The remedies available are much more limited than that, whether 
under Spanish or UK law.    
The requirement that sellers tell potential buyers that they are attending a sales event was 
introduced in the UK by the 2010 regulations. There was no such requirement, at least under 
UK law, in August 2007. But in any event, it is clear from their own claim that Mr and Mrs D 
knew what was happening. To quote from the claim letter, It quickly became apparent that 
this was in fact a sales event. So, even if I were to take the view that M should have 
explained that before the event started, I do not believe Mr and Mrs D suffered any detriment 
as a result.     
Other matters 
N says that Mr and Mrs D were not given the opportunity to arrange their own finance or to 
pay by instalments. I have no doubt that they were offered finance from BPF because that 
would enable them to complete the purchase and because M and BPF had arrangements 
between them under which M acted as both seller and credit intermediary. That arrangement 
provided Mrs D with additional protections under the Consumer Credit Act which she would 
not have had if she had taken out a free-standing loan or paid in full. Taking out a loan also 
meant Mrs D could pay by instalments. I dont accept however that she was denied the 
opportunity of arranging her own finance. In saying that, I note again the time that passed 
between the signing of the purchase contract and the completion of the loan, as well as the 
cooling-off periods for both. And I am not aware of any reason either why Mrs D could not 
have sought to refinance the loan if she had been unhappy with its terms.
I make similar observations in respect of the general allegation that Mr and Mrs D were 
subjected to high pressure sales tactics, including the offer of time-limited discounts  a 
practice now banned by the 2008 regulations. They did not seek to cancel the purchase 
contract within the time allowed, Mrs D continued with the loan, and they did not (as far as I 
am aware) seek to cancel the contract or complain about the circumstances of the sale in 
the years between 2008 and 2021. 
Finally, N says that the provisions relating to maintenance and management fees are unfair 
within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations. Again, this is a 
piece of legislation which derives from European law, so I am assuming that Spanish law 
gives consumers similar protection in Spain as they have in the UK. 
Under the 1999 regulations, a term which has the effect of allowing a supplier to increase the 
price of goods or services without giving the consumer the opportunity of ending the contract 
might be regarded as unfair. A term which is unfair is not enforceable against the consumer; 
an unfair term does not however make the contract as a whole unenforceable.
N says that the provisions about management fees allow M, in effect, to increase those fees 
at will. The timeshare contract says that the maintenance fee is calculated by reference to 
the operating budget of the resort and that the management fee will be 15% of that. The 
intention is that the maintenance fee will not increase by more than the rate of inflation in Spain, but the contract does allow for higher increases where there are unforeseen 
circumstances. 
M and those managing the resort do appear therefore to have some discretion in setting 
these fees, but it is not entirely unfettered. Were fees to increase significantly from one year 
to the next, it appears that timeshare owners might have grounds to challenge them on the 
basis that they had not been increased in line with the contract  for example, if the fees 
were set without reference to the resorts overall operating budget or to the prevailing rate of 
inflation. I cannot of course rule out the possibility that a Spanish court would say that these 
provisions are unfair. If it did, the relevant provisions of the contract would not be 
enforceable against the individual timeshare owners (assuming the remedy under Spanish 
law is the same as under UK law). It is not apparent from the accounts provided to me, 
however, that increases over the years have been extortionate.    
Conclusion
For these reasons, I think it most unlikely that a court would conclude that the loan 
agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
I dont believe that the documentary evidence in this case supports the assertion that Mr and 
Mrs D were unduly pressured into entering into the timeshare agreement. In particular, it 
appears that they were given plenty of time to think about their decision and to withdraw 
from the contract if they wanted to. I take the view that the fact they did not raise any 
concerns for many years affects the credibility of their evidence.     
Further, the breaches of laws, regulations and codes alleged by N, even if shown to have 
occurred, did not make the timeshare agreement void or otherwise unenforceable. Those 
laws, regulations and codes provided remedies which the legislators (in Spain or the UK) 
considered appropriate in the circumstances. That is not to say of course that only serious 
breaches can lead to an order under section 140B, but it seems to me that in this case N has 
made allegations of a series of relatively minor breaches, none of which has led to real and 
avoidable detriment to Mrs D. 
BPF said it had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Neither Mrs D nor N 
responded to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have had no substantive response to my provisional decision, I have no more 
information or evidence than what was available when I issued it. In particular, there has 
been no clarification of:
what happened in July 2006 and what happened in August 2007; 
the credit card payment;
the delay between the signing of the contract with M and the drawdown of the loan; 
the current state of the loan; or 
any relevant differences between Spanish and UK Law.In the circumstances, there is no reason in my view for me to reach a different conclusion 
from that set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman