DRN-4389164
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the poor service she says she received from Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax, during calls to discuss managing her mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs P has an interest only mortgage with Halifax. She is currently paying Halifaxs standard 
variable rate (SVR). Due to the recent interest rate increases, Mrs Ps mortgage payments 
started to go up. 
In May 2023 Mrs P complained to Halifax about the poor service she says she received 
when trying to discuss options for managing her mortgage.
Mrs P says that during two telephone calls with Halifax, staff were rude and unhelpful. She 
felt pressured into discussing her repayment type rather than what rates were available to 
reduce her outgoings. Mrs P says she felt disrespected and demeaned. She says that the 
distress and bullying led her to end both calls early without continuing with the appointments. 
As such she has remained on the SVR, and her payments have continued to increase. 
Halifax answered the complaint. It said that whilst it could not locate the calls Mrs P was 
referring to, it upheld the complaint based on the information she provided. Halifax 
apologised for the service Mrs P says she experienced. It offered a new appointment and 
explained why it would ask about the repayment vehicle in such circumstances. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. She says that 
because Halifax upheld her complaint, it should pay her compensation. Mrs P has provided 
details of her long-standing medical conditions and vulnerabilities. She says this whole 
encounter including the complaint process has caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, and that should be acknowledged by Halifax  and compensation paid. 
An investigator at our service looked into things. He said that despite Halifaxs efforts to 
locate records of the calls mentioned, no records have been found.  He does not dispute the 
events described by Mrs P, but with such limited evidence, he cant reasonably ask Halifax 
to offer anything more than an apology, of which it has done. 
Mrs P remained unhappy and asked for her case to be decided by an ombudsman. She 
thinks the onus is on Halifax to provide recordings of the calls that took place. In absence of 
such evidence the complaint should be found in her favour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me 
to reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
I dont have any reason to doubt Mrs Ps testimony about the service she received from 
Halifax. I appreciate she feels very strongly about her case, and I fully empathise with her 
circumstances. Its clear from what she has openly told us and Halifax  that she has been 
through a difficult time due to her ongoing health concerns. 
Halifax has apologised to Mrs P for the events she says she experienced. It offered to put 
things right by arranging a new appointment with a dedicated mortgage advisor. Mrs P 
doesnt think thats enough and shes seeking compensation as a resolution to her 
complaint. 
For me to uphold this complaint against Halifax and legally order it to make a financial award 
to Mrs P, Id need to be satisfied that the events complained of, more than likely happened in 
the way described by Mrs P. This would in turn allow me to determine what, if any, 
compensation should be awarded and the extent of the payment. 
Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Ultimately, what that means for Mrs P is that, as 
the party bringing the complaint, it falls to her to present a case that satisfies that test.
Having considered what both sides have said, I dont find there is enough evidence for me to 
say that on balance of probability, Halifax treated Mrs P unfairly or that it spoke to her in a 
way that I could reasonably award compensation for. 
When investigating Mrs Ps concerns, Im satisfied that Halifax took reasonable steps to try 
and locate records of the relevant calls. It tried to obtain as much information from Mrs P as 
possible to narrow its search  including any information about the date and time of the calls, 
the names of the advisors and which telephone number she used to call from. Mrs Ps 
recollections were vague. Halifax ultimately couldnt locate any record of these calls 
happening. It had no call recordings, appointment records, contact notes, or call summaries. 
It even reached out to some of its mortgage advisors directly to check for their recollection of 
speaking to Mrs P. Of which they had none.
In the absence of evidence, Halifax gave Mrs P the benefit of doubt about the way she was 
made to feel based on her version of events. In the circumstances I think an apology is 
reasonable. I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to ask questions about Mrs Ps plans to 
repay her interest only mortgage during a mortgage review. And without records of the calls 
and a recording that satisfies me on balance of probability, that Mrs P was more than likely 
treated unfairly or spoken to rudely  I cant reasonably say this complaint falls on anything 
more than a misunderstanding. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, but I hope my explanation has 
helped her to understand why, in the absence of evidence, Im not able to reasonably uphold 
this complaint and order Halifax to pay Mrs P compensation in such circumstances. 
I also dont agree that Halifax took too long to answer Mrs Ps complaint as shes suggested. 
Mrs P raised this complaint with Halifax on 26 May 2023. Halifax made attempts to obtain 
more information from Mrs P to help with its investigation. That took some time. But 
ultimately a final response letter was issued on 4 July 2023  within the allowed eight-week 
period to respond to a complaint 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont expect Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to do anything more than it has already offered in its final response letter. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman