DRN-2575606
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited declined her claim against her travel insurance 
policy following the cancellation of her trip. Reference to UKI includes reference to its
agents.
What happened
Mrs B has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account. The chronology of events is
important and Ill refer to it in more detail below. In summary:
18 April 2019 Mrs B booked flights for herself and her five children in order to  
attend a family wedding. The intended departure and return dates 
were 17 July 2019 and 8 September 2019 respectively.
19 June 2019 One of Mrs Bs children became ill and was subsequently admitted  
to hospital.
15 July 2019 Mrs Bs travel agent cancelled the flights for Mrs Bs two younger  
children and applied for a refund from the airline. The remaining four 
flights were rescheduled in the hope that Mrs Bs daughter would be 
better, and travel would be possible. The rescheduled departure and 
return dates were 13 August 2019 and 8 September 2019 
respectively.
17 July 2019 Mrs Bs two youngest children flew to the intended destination with  
relatives on other flight tickets bought by a relative.
23 July 2019 Mrs B made a claim against her policy.
9 August 2019 Mrs Bs travel agent cancelled the rescheduled flights and applied  
for a refund.
23 September Mrs B received a refund of £2,280 from the travel agent, which was 
2019 the cost of the tickets (£4,920) less re-issue and cancellation charges 
(£2,640).
UKI declined Mrs Bs claim. It initially offered Mrs B compensation of £100 in relation an 
aspect of its initial handling of the matter, but it later withdrew that offer. UKI said that Mrs B 
hadnt complied with a condition of the policy that requires her to be honest and truthful in 
her dealings with it. It said that Mrs B had knowingly and dishonestly given it information 
that she was aware was untrue or misleading. UKI cancelled Mrs Bs policy from the date 
of the claim and didnt refund the premium. UKI also said it would share details of the 
matter with fraud prevention agencies.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that UKI had acted 
fairly in declining Mrs Bs claim. The investigator said that he didnt think that Mrs B had 
submitted a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim.
Mrs B accepted the investigators view but UKI didnt. It said:
Mrs B had deliberately misled it and consistently provided false information.
In the first call about the claim, Mrs B said no one was able to travel but that 
wasnt correct, as two of her children had already travelled by then.
Mrs B said that she hadnt spoken to her travel agent but that wasnt correct, as 
four of the flight tickets had been reissued and were in her possession.
Mrs B said that she wasnt sure if she was able to exchange the tickets or get 
a refund but that wasnt the case, as her travel agent had reissued the 
tickets.
Mrs B only provided information at a late stage, after she couldnt use 
the rescheduled flights.
The travel agent failed to disclose initially that it had reissued four of the flight 
tickets for a later date.
Its far-fetched for Mrs B to claim that the travel agent paid for the                
re-scheduled tickets out of its own pocket.
It had declined a previous claim by Mrs B for the same trip following what Mrs B 
believed to be a scam in that she paid a deposit for flight tickets which were 
never received.
The investigator asked Mrs B some further questions. Mrs B said:
UKI didnt handle her claim fairly from the outset. It initially said that shed lied 
about her destination but that wasnt correct. UKI offered her compensation for 
the initial handling of her complaint.
She didnt expect to receive the full cost of the flights  UKI only asked her about 
the cost of the flight tickets, not how much she wished to claim. She didnt quantify 
her claim.
She would accept UKIs decision if it said that the claim wasnt covered by the 
policy, but she doesnt accept that she acted fraudulently.
A family member arranged and paid for two flights for her two younger children, so 
that was a separate booking she played no part in and didnt mention it to UKI as 
she didnt think it was relevant. She told UKI about it when asked.
She was aware of the re-issued tickets on 15 July 2019, but she wasnt aware of 
the full terms and conditions of the booking. Her travel agent wasnt available so 
she spoke with his wife who wasnt sure if the tickets could be refunded or 
reissued. Her travel agents wife said that the original tickets were non-refundable 
and couldnt be changed and that she had to do a new booking. She was often in an area without signal, as she was visiting her daughter in hospital. When she had 
all the information, she passed it to UKI straight away.
She wanted to put her claim on hold as she was busy and exhausted dealing with 
her ill daughter but UKI showed no compassion.
The investigator considered the new information from both UKI and Mrs B but didnt 
change his view. UKI asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me.
My provisional decision
On 8 January 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Subject to certain terms, the policy provides cover for travel costs following unavoidable 
cancellation of a trip caused by serious illness of an insured person or a close relative. The 
policy also provides:
General conditions 
[]
7. Fraud
You must be honest and truthful in your dealings with us at all times.
If you, any insured person or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or 
knowingly makes a false claim, we have the right to refuse claims and retain any premium 
paid. We may recover from you any costs we have incurred, including the costs of 
investigating the claim.
We will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. We will also not 
deal with any claims following discovery of this behaviour regardless of when the claims 
occurred.
In addition, we have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and 
share details of this behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. We 
may also involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal 
proceedings.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its not for me to determine whether fraud has occurred here: thats a matter for the courts.
But I can consider whether UKI treated Mrs B fairly in rejecting her claim.
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think that UKI treated her unfairly. 
Ill explain why:
When Mrs B made her claim on 23 July 2019, her travel agent had cancelled 
the flights for Mrs Bs two youngest children, applied for a refund for those 
flights and rescheduled the four remaining flights to a later date. I dont think 
that it alters the outcome that Mrs B didnt quantify her claim  she was claiming 
for flight costs. It was clearly relevant that shed applied to cancel or reschedule the flights, but she didnt tell UKI that. I dont think that UKI was at fault in 
concluding that was misleading.
Ive seen a copy of the WhatsApp message sent to Mrs B on 16 July 2019, which 
shows that four flights were rescheduled on 15 July 2019. Mrs B says that she was 
aware of the re-issued tickets on 15 July 2019, but she wasnt aware of the full 
terms and conditions of the booking. I dont think that Mrs B needed to be aware of 
the full terms and conditions of the new booking: its clear that she knew that four 
flights had been rescheduled. That was important information that UKI needed to 
know in dealing with the claim.
Ive listened to the recording of Mrs Bs phone call with UKI on 23 July 2019. I dont 
think it was unfair for UKI to conclude that Mrs B wasnt honest and truthful in that 
call. Mrs B said that when she bought the flight tickets, her travel agent said that 
they were non-refundable and couldnt be changed. But Mrs B knew that four of the 
flight tickets had been rescheduled. Mrs B also said that she hadnt spoken with her 
travel agent but there had clearly been some communication, as Mrs B would have 
given the travel agent instructions about which flights to cancel and which flights to 
reschedule and for which dates.
Some of the evidence Mrs B provided to support her claim was misleading. Mrs B 
sent UKI an e-mail from her travel agent which said that Mrs B and her family 
didnt travel on 17 July 2019. That is strictly true, but Mrs B knew that the travel 
agent had cancelled two of the flights and asked for a refund and rescheduled the 
remaining four flights.
I appreciate that this was a worrying and stressful time for Mrs B and that she 
was busy dealing with the hospitalisation of one of her daughters. I dont think 
that UKI acted unreasonably in asking Mrs B for certain documentation, as its 
entitled to do that under the terms of the policy.
I dont agree that UKI didnt show compassion. In one of UKIs phone calls 
with Mrs B, when she said that it was difficult for her to provide the 
documentation it asked for in order to progress the claim, UKI offered to close 
the claim until she was ready and able to deal with it. In a later call, UKI 
offered to give Mrs B more time to provide the documentation.
Considering everything, I dont think that UKI was at fault in declining Mrs Bs 
claim for the reason it gave.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B disagreed with my provisional decision and responded in some detail. In summary,  
Mrs B said:
On 23 July 2019, she called UKI and told it that she had booked a flight that she 
couldnt use because of the illness of one of her daughters. When UKI called her 
back a couple of days later, it asked her about the terms and conditions of the 
flight, and she told it that it says on the ticket that they are non-refundable and cant 
be changed. She also told UKI that the person at the travel agent who booked the 
flights wasnt in the country. His wife was dealing with the matter. The travel agent 
had applied for a refund but wasnt sure if that would be successful and she told 
Mrs B that the airline will confirm the position in six weeks. 
She didnt quantify her claim and didnt ask for the total cost of the flights, as she 
wasnt sure whether shed get a refund or not. She didnt intend to hide the fact that four flight tickets were reissued for a later 
date. The situation wasnt clear at the time, as the person she was dealing with at 
the travel agents said that shed have to pay extra money for those tickets, but she 
hadnt paid anything by 23 July 2019. As soon as she had further information she 
gave it to UKI.
UKI asked for evidence that no one travelled on the intended departure date, which 
is why she provided the statement from her travel agent which said that no-one 
travelled on 17 July 2019. 
UKI didnt show compassion and made her situation worse by putting unnecessary 
pressure on her at a vulnerable time. It didnt give her extra time to deal with 
matters. 
She has a demanding family life and was under enormous physical and mental 
stress at the relevant time. UKI made her situation worse by questioning her about 
unnecessary things at inappropriate times. For example, about a claim she hadnt 
made after she was the victim of a scam earlier in 2019 and about an incorrect 
intended destination. 
UKI rejected her claim as it said that she didnt tell it about reissued tickets on       
23 July 2019. Her travel agent got all the information from the airline on                 
21 August 2019 and on the same day, she gave that information to UKI.
It was only in November 2019, when UKI couldnt find any suspicious activity with 
regards to the earlier scam and it had been established that Mrs B hadnt lied 
about her destination, that it started looking for other reasons to reject the claim. 
She travels frequently and uses the same travel agent who allowed her to settle 
extra payments for re-issued tickets later, as she was preoccupied with her ill 
daughter. 
She hasnt lied or misled UKI about anything.
UKI took advantage of her linguistic weakness and tried to use it against her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this was a very worrying and demanding time for Mrs B. Its clear and quite 
understandable that Mrs B has very strong feelings about this matter. Im unable to agree 
though that UKI didnt show her compassion or give her extra time. Ive explained my 
reasons for this in my provisional decision and Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs recent 
submissions to depart from those findings.
Im grateful to Mrs B for her detailed submissions, which I have read and considered with 
care. However, I trust that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I 
consider the central issue, that is, whether UKI treated her unfairly in declining her claim for 
the reason it gave.     
I appreciate that at the foot of the confirmation of flights from Mrs Bs travel agent, it said                 
that, Unless otherwise stated in writing your ticket will be non-refundable and                   
non-chargeable, but by the time Mrs B spoke with UKI, Im satisfied that she knew that four of the flights had been changed and that her travel agent had applied for a refund for two of 
the flights. 
Mrs B says that she gave her travel agent open authority to cancel, change or book new 
tickets, even if she had to pay extra. But she would need to give specific instructions about 
which tickets needed to be cancelled, which tickets were to be rescheduled and for which 
dates. 
Ive listened again to Mrs Bs initial call to UKI on 23 July 2019. Mrs B said that she wished 
to make a claim and explained what had led to the cancellation of her trip. She didnt 
mention that her travel agent had cancelled two flights and applied for a refund for those 
flights or that the four remaining flights had been rescheduled for a later date. I think that 
was material information that UKI needed to know. In Mrs Bs phone call with UKI on           
31 July 2019, she said that she had evidence from the travel agent that the flights had been 
cancelled; but four of the flights hadnt been cancelled, theyd been rescheduled. 
I dont agree that UKI exploited any linguistic weakness Mrs B may have. I dont think that it 
was apparent to UKI that Mrs B was struggling to understand what it said. It was open to   
Mrs B to ask UKI to communicate in a different way or via a third party, if thats what she 
required. Based on what Ive heard, I think that UKI asked Mrs B clear and fair questions.
I dont think that UKI treated Mrs B unfairly in concluding that she hadnt provided full 
information and had omitted relevant facts. Thats because when Mrs B spoke with UKI at 
the outset, she didnt tell it relevant information about the cancelled flights, her application for 
a refund for two of the flights and the fact that four flights had been rescheduled.   
I appreciate that Mrs B was dealing with a different person at the travel agent, but I dont 
think that has any bearing on the case. Ive seen nothing to indicate that matters would have 
progressed differently if Mrs B had dealt with the person at the travel agent who originally 
booked her flights. 
In one of her calls with UKI, Mrs B said that her claim was for missed flights. Mrs B said that 
she didnt quantify her claim, but she didnt give UKI any reason to believe that she was 
claiming for anything less than the cost of the six flights. 
On 16 July 2019, Mrs B knew that four flights had been rescheduled. Theres nothing to 
support Mrs Bs contention that the position was unclear or that her travel agent had told her 
that shed have to pay extra money for those flights. 
Its common ground that UKI referred to an incorrect destination. Mrs B was accurate about 
the country to which she intended to travel. UKI acknowledged that it made an error and 
offered Mrs B compensation in relation to that, which it later withdrew. I dont think that alters 
the outcome here. 
Both Mrs B and UKI have referred to an earlier scam in which Mrs B was a victim. I dont 
think thats relevant to my decision in this case. UKI hasnt produced any evidence to 
support its assertion that Mrs B made a claim in relation to that loss, so I dont comment on 
that further. 
Considering everything, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I 
have some difficulty in accepting Mrs Bs submission that she hasnt misled UKI. It follows 
that Im satisfied that Mrs B wasnt honest and truthful in her dealings with UKI in that she led 
UKI to believe that she was seeking a refund for tickets that had been rescheduled or for 
which a refund had been applied for. So, I dont think that UKI  treated Mrs B unfairly in 
declining her claim for the reason it gave.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman