DRN-2944145
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly-premium PPI policies taken out with various secured loans. 
The PPI and loans started in February 1994, January 1995 and May 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place more than 25 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the 
original documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Mrs G has said the PPI was added without her knowledge. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And, from what we 
know of Bank of Scotlands processes around this time, it would be usual for the PPI to have 
been mentioned in the documents at the time. So I think its more likely this is what 
happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mrs G doesnt now remember it. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Gs 
knowledge. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to 
Mrs G, and this means we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to 
make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Gs particular circumstances. However, it looks to 
me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen 
of Mrs Gs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a secured loan can lead to significant 
difficulties, risking losing your home; and so it was often sensible to consider 
covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs G was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs G received any employer 
sick pay. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would have put off the time when Mrs G would need to fall back on any 
savings or other means she may have had for paying the secured loan and other 
living costs. This all would have put Mrs G in a more secure position, if shed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs G would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs G to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming she was given that choice  which I 
accept she is sure she wasnt).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman