DRN-4079752
The complaint
Mr V complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Banks mishandling of 
a transfer of funds from an ISA he held with another provider to Tescos ISA.
What happened
Mr V requested a partial transfer of £7,000 from his instant access ISA to a Tesco Fixed 
Rate ISA. He said he provided clear written instructions on Tescos ISA Transfer Authority 
Form and by phone. However, Tesco requested a full transfer (£11,802.09) meaning his 
existing ISA was closed without his permission, which he discovered from his account. 
Mr V said Tesco admitted its error and contacted his existing ISA provider who said the 
transaction couldnt be reversed. Mr V said this meant his entire balance was in the Tesco 
ISA. The partial transfer Mr V requested was from previous tax years and he wanted to 
contribute more money for the current tax years allowance. After several calls Mr V said 
Tesco transferred the excess amount to its Instant Access ISA (at a lower interest rate than 
his previous ISA) and offered him £25 for loss of interest.
Mr V said he was very distressed that his instructions hadnt been followed. He said not 
knowing where his money had gone when his existing ISA was closed caused anxiety, 
inconvenience, and phone calls which distracted him from his full-time job.
Tesco apologised to Mr V for not following his instructions concerning the transfer. It said the 
balance would be placed in an instant access ISA without penalty, and as this only contained 
the current years funds he could deposit a further sum before the end of the tax year. Tesco 
offered £25 for loss of interest in comparison to his previous ISA, and £75 compensation, but 
Mr V said this was insufficient given its lack of care and the seriousness of the error and the 
anxiety and inconvenience caused. Mr V requested £300 compensation, but Tesco wouldnt 
reconsider its offer and he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the compensation 
Tesco offered for its error was fair as it covered the loss of interest and recognised the 
impact of its error. Mr V was dissatisfied with this response and requested an ombudsman 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the available information and the implications of what happened to 
Mr V. Both parties agree that Mr V gave clear instructions to Tesco via its Transfer Authority 
Form to transfer the sum of £7,000 and that Tesco mistakenly transferred all of the balance 
of his previous ISA.
When a business has made a mistake we look at the impact of this on the consumer and 
what the business did to put things right, and we consider what compensation would be a 
fair and reasonable reflection of this. 
Im pleased that Tesco quickly traced and confirmed to Mr V the whereabouts of his funds. 
Tesco then attempted to reverse the transfer and when that wasnt possible opened an 
instant access ISA for Mr V and explained the further contribution open to him. The funds 
were always with Tesco and so I dont think there was much anxiety about this. From what 
Ive seen Tesco acted to minimise the impact of its mistake on Mr V. 
Tesco has paid the loss of interest Mr V incurred (£25) and so I havent found any financial 
impact on Mr V. Tesco also offered £75 compensation, but Mr V said this doesnt reflect its 
significant error on his savings and the stress and inconvenience he was caused. He said 
he, rather than Tesco spotted the error, and it took time to resolve and affected his work. 
Mr V said the compensation should be within the £100 to £300 category which we say is 
appropriate for a large single mistake requiring a reasonable effort to sort out over several 
days, causing me distress and inconvenience. Mr V also points out that the new ISA account 
Tesco opened for him will require him to spend time in the future making new arrangements.
For this range of compensation we say that we would normally expect to see inconvenience 
beyond that caused to Mr V and a likelihood of disappointment and loss of expectation. 
These are not elements of Mr Vs complaint and I think the offer is consistent with others we 
have seen of a similar nature. 
I can appreciate the frustration and worry Mr V was caused worry when attempting to 
transfer the balance of his account to another. But as Tesco rectified its error quickly and put 
Mr V back in the financial position he would have occupied, I think its offer of compensation 
is fair and reasonable for what has happened. If Mr V hasnt received the £100 offered by 
Tesco, I recommend he accepts this offer. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman