DRN-3065529
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC froze her accounts after she attempted to 
transfer money to her family members while acting as the executor of her late mothers 
estate and the standard of service that Barclays provided to her when she contacted them 
about this.  
What happened
Mrs S had a Barclays current account that she used for her personal banking, but also 
opened a new Barclays current account following the death of her late mother with the 
intention of using the new account to resolve her late mothers financial affairs.
In June 2020, Mrs S began the process of transferring inheritance payments from the new 
account to her family members. The first payment of this type that Mrs S attempted to make 
was blocked by Barclays. Mrs S contacted Barclays and explained the situation, and 
Barclays removed the block on the account so that the transfer could be made.
The next day, Mrs S attempted a second inheritance transfer, but again the transfer was 
blocked. Mrs S contacted Barclays again and was told that a formal review was being 
undertaken on her account because of the unusual usage on it. Mrs S also discovered that 
as well as the new current account being blocked, her personal current account had been 
blocked as well. 
Mrs S wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy that Barclays suggested that she 
visit a local branch with identity documents in order to withdraw cash to make essential 
purchases, especially given the restrictions that were in place at that time because of Covid-
19 as well as her and her husbands status as vulnerable citizens who were advised to shield 
from the virus. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ss complaint. They noted that Mrs Ss accounts had been blocked 
as a result of Barclays fraud prevention processes, but they acknowledged that the service 
that Mrs S had received in regard to unblocking her accounts wasnt to the standard that 
they aspired to, and so they apologised to Mrs S for this and made an offer to pay Mrs S 
£350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience that shed incurred. 
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and didnt fee that Barclays had provided a 
satisfactory explanation as to why her accounts had been blocked. So, she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they sympathised with the 
difficult situation that Mrs S had found herself in when her accounts had been blocked, they 
felt that the response to Mrs Ss complaint already issued by Barclays  including the offer of 
£350 compensation  already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had 
taken place, and so they didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been both very upsetting and inconvenient for Mrs S to 
have had not only the new current account, but also her other accounts blocked by Barclays 
at a time when she was trying to complete the administration of her late mothers financial 
affairs. 
Barclays have explained that the attempted transfers that Mrs S tried to make were flagged 
by their fraud prevention systems and that it was this that led to the accounts being blocked. 
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity that 
may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a 
possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that financial 
institutions such as Barclays have a obligation to employ such systems in order to comply 
with banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their 
customers accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
I recognise that Mrs S would like Barclays to provide a more detailed explanation as to why 
this was the case. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to provide such an explanation here, and 
this is not only because fraud prevention systems are being constantly updated and evolved 
by financial institutions in response to new information on potential threats, but also because 
if a bank were to explain to a customer how they could avoid having their attempted 
transfers flagged by the fraud prevention systems, then this would potentially reduce the 
effectiveness of those systems and leave them open to manipulation.
I also understand that Mrs S would like Barclays to recognise and acknowledge that they 
should have better fraud detection systems in place. However, again, I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to provide such an acknowledgement. And the reason for this is because, 
unfortunately, the necessary employment by banks of fraud prevention systems, such as Ive 
described above, sometimes entails a degree of unavoidable inconvenience for consumers 
whose legitimate banking requests have been flagged and blocked by those systems.
In this instance, the effect on Mrs S was exacerbated because of the unusual social 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 present at that time. However, I must confirm that it 
wouldnt be expected that Barclays would suspend their fraud prevention processes because 
of the impact of Covid-19, as it was still a requirement for Barclays to have such systems in 
place to protect their customers accounts.
However, what this service would expect would be, that when Mrs S had her attempted 
transaction blocked and her accounts suspended, that Barclays would have helped Mrs S to 
resolve the issue as quickly and with as minimal an amount of inconvenience as possible.
It's clear that this wasnt the case in this instance. Not only did Mrs S have to wait on hold for 
a considerable period of time when calling Barclays to try to unblock her accounts, but her 
accounts  including her personal current account from which she hadnt attempted to make 
any transfers  remained blocked for approximately two weeks during a time when her husband and herself were supposed to be shielding from Covid-19, and which meant that 
they werent able to make online grocery purchases or similar transactions at that time. Its 
also evident that Mrs S had to make several long phone calls and branch visits to try to 
resolve the issue.
Barclays have acknowledged that the service that they provided to Mrs S in this regard 
wasnt to the standard that they aspire, and theyve apologised to Mrs S for this and made 
an offer to pay Mrs S £350 compensation for the inconvenience and distress that she 
incurred during this time.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
£350 that Barclays have already offered Mrs S here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm 
that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
I recognise that Mrs S would like Barclays to provide a more detailed explanation of why she 
wasnt provided with better assistance by them, including why she was unable to speak with 
anyone in the fraud department despite several requests to do so. I can appreciate Mrs Ss 
strength of feeling here, but Im not convinced that Barclays can reasonably provide Mrs S 
with the depth of explanation shes seeking here, and it must be remembered that Barclays 
were themselves dealing with the effects of Covid-19 at that time, which often included 
significant staff shortages as well as operational difficulties in adjusting to the changes in 
working practices, such as large numbers of staff being asked to work from home, that had 
to be implemented because of the impact of the virus.
All of which means that, while I acknowledge that Mrs S didnt receive the standard of 
service from Barclays that she should have done here, I feel that the response that Barclays 
have already issued to Mrs S, including the apology to Mrs S and the offer of £350 
compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken place. 
And it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
I realise that this may not be the outcome that Mrs S was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman