DRN-3947795
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R are insured under a travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA, which is 
provided as a benefit of their packaged bank account. 
In November 2021, Mr and Mrs R booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in May 
2022. However, in January 2022, Mrs R had an operation on her knee and was 
subsequently told that she couldnt fly for six months. So, Mr and Mrs R cancelled their 
holiday and made a claim with IPA for the loss of the deposit theyd paid. 
IPA said Mrs R had a history of knee pain and had been referred to a specialist team before 
the holiday was booked. IPA said, as Mrs R hadnt declared this pre-existing medical 
condition to it, the claim wasnt covered under Mr and Mrs Rs policy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs R complained to IPA before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He said IPA would have 
covered Mrs Rs pre-existing medical condition for an additional premium if shed declared 
her history of issues with her knee to it. Our investigator recommended that IPA should 
accept Mr and Mrs Rs claim, deducting the additional premium it would have charged to 
cover the pre-existing medical condition. 
Mr and Mrs R agreed with our investigators findings, but IPA didnt, so the complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about the complaint in January 2023. In it, I 
said:
I dont agree with the findings reached by our investigator, and Ill explain why. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Section C Cancellation or Curtailment Charges of Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides cover for 
the cancellation of a trip in certain circumstances. However, the following is specifically 
excluded: 
What IS NOT Covered 
1. Any claim arising directly or indirectly from a pre-existing medical condition 
affecting you unless you have declared ALL pre-existing medical conditions to 
us and we have written to you accepting them for insurance. 
Pre-existing medical conditions are defined in the policy as including: 
1. Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms or for 
which any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation, 
investigation or follow-up/check up has been required or received during the two 
years prior to
a) Opening your  Account, 
b) booking any trip, or 
c) upon the annual renewal of your medical health declaration, whichever is the 
later  
Page 4 of the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy sets out the process to be 
followed to declare pre-existing medical conditions to IPA. I think this is both clear and 
prominent within the policy wording. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided holiday booking invoices dated 11 November 2021. Mr and Mrs 
R have also provided an email dated 5 November 2021 (sent at 21.17), stating that the 
holiday booking was confirmed. Even accepting that the holiday was booked on 5 November 
2021, the evidence which Ive seen suggests this is likely to have happened in the evening 
on that date. 
The medical certificate completed by Mrs Rs GP says that Mrs R had: 
History of knee pain & osteoarthritis. Referred to musculoskeletal team by  
5/11/21, who triaged to orthopaedics for assessment for possible surgery. 
The medical certificate goes on to say that Mrs R wasnt fit to undertake the trip as of 5 
November 2021 and, as of the same date, had symptoms for which she was awaiting 
investigations. 
Based on the timestamp on the email dated 5 November 2021, I think its likely that the 
holiday was booked after Mrs R had already been referred to a specialist team on 5 
November 2021. And, even if this wasnt the case, I think its clear from the medical 
evidence Ive seen that Mrs R had a history of worsening knee pain in the years prior to the 
holiday booking, which IPA wasnt told about. So, Im satisfied that Mrs R had a pre-existing 
medical condition as defined within her and Mr Rs policy, which wasnt declared to IPA. 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim relates directly to the pre-existing medical condition for which they had 
no cover. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy.
In line with my remit, Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
require IPA to accept Mr and Mrs Rs claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy 
terms and conditions (taking into account any additional premium which IPA would have 
charged to provide cover for pre-existing medical conditions). Based on the particular 
circumstances of this case, including the timeline of events, I dont think it would. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt tell IPA about Mrs Rs pre-existing medical condition, and therefore, 
didnt have cover for any claims relating to that issue. So, the risk (including the risk of 
holiday cancellation) which IPA was covering under this policy didnt include claims linked to 
Mrs Rs knee. When making an independent and impartial decision, I need to be fair to both 
parties  not just to Mr and Mrs R. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to now require IPA to 
retrospectively provide cover for a risk which it didnt agree to accept. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R and I understand theyve lost out financially, but I dont 
think IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim and I dont intend to 
direct IPA to do anything further.  
IPA accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or additional submissions, I see no reason 
to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman