DRN-2224978
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy as MBNA Limited have placed a default on his credit file relating to a credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr L suffered financial difficulty due to a change in occupation. This resulted in the minimum 
payment for his MBNA credit cards not being met.
In terms of this credit card, Mr L and MBNA agreed on a call in November 2017 that Mr L 
could afford £53 per month for his repayments. Interest would be reduced to 0% and any 
fees (such as late payment or returned payment fees) would be stopped. He was informed 
that the repayment would not be enough to prevent a default happening in a letter dated 13th 
November 2017. In a call in April 2018, when Mr L says he had received a default letter, he 
was asked if his income and expenditure had changed and he indicated it was roughly the 
same as November 2017.
The account was then recorded as defaulted on 31st July 2018 as the arrears had not been 
repaid.
Mr L complained about this as he said that his account was placed into default as he did not 
make up the arrears due to being given incorrect advice and that MBNA refused to accept 
payment.
MBNA accepted that their communications could have been clearer to Mr L, but have 
maintained that the information relating to this account was always correct and that Mr L was 
warned of the impact of not making up arrears on the account.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service, where our investigator looked into it. He said that 
Mr L was given detailed information about the arrears on this account on the call in 
November 2017. Mr L was told that if he fell seven months in arrears with his payments, a 
default would be registered.
The investigator also noted towards the end of the November 2017 call that Mr L confirms he 
understands what has been discussed and a new direct debit is set up for the new
repayment.
Finally the Investigator noted that MBNA had not been clear in their communications with Mr 
L and this would have been stressful and worrying for him, so awarded Mr L £150 for the 
frustration has caused.
MBNA accepted this but Mr L disagreed for the same reasons hed already given, adding 
that he felt there was no point in making further payments until the end of the seven month 
period. So the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has already considered a complaint from Mr L about MBNAs actions on his 
other credit card with them. So my decision here will only focus on MBNAs actions in 
relation to this particular card.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very
much the same reasons. I accept MBNA werent fully clear in their correspondence with Mr 
L. There were times when he was told he only had one account, when he had two accounts 
with them. But Mr L was told about the consequences of being in arrears and that a default 
would be placed on his credit file if the arrears were not made up on the November 2017 
call. So while I can see why he wouldve been confused, I think he would still have been 
aware that a default would be recorded here.
In any event, I dont think Mr L would have avoided this even if MBNA had been clearer with 
him about his accounts. I say this because, based on the income and expenditure given on 
the November 2017 call (and confirmed on a April 2018 call) his financial situation was not 
likely to improve until June 2018. That was six months away, which suggests that he wasnt 
able to manage his account for a significant period of time. And by the point MBNA did finally 
default the account, it was over six months in arrears, which is in line with the relevant 
guidance that applies here. 
I realise that Mr L says he didnt see the point in making extra payments during this time  
but equally, as MBNA told him that a default was going to be applied  I think its reasonable 
to expect that if he was able to pay more he wouldve contacted MBNA to say that his 
circumstances had changed.
With regards to the entries on his credit file, MBNA have a duty to report activity accurately 
to credit agencies and appear to have reported activity on this account accurately including 
registering defaults. I realise thatll have a significant impact on Mr L  but it wouldnt be fair 
for me to tell MBNA to remove information its recorded that accurately reflects the conduct 
of the account.
Ive also seen that the terms and conditions of the account state that MBNA may, at any 
time, transfer to any person or business any or all their rights and duties under the 
agreement. So they were entitled to sell on the debt here and to Mr L this during a call in 
April 2018. So I cant see anything unfair or unreasonable in MBNA taking this stance here.
Putting things right
While MBNA were entitled to take the actions they did here in relation to the account, some 
of their communication with Mr L could have been clearer. For example, they did on 
occasion say that he only had one account, when he had two. That would have been 
confusing and frustrating for Mr L and so its fair that MBNA compensates him for the impact 
that had. Our investigator has suggested that £150 is fair in the circumstances and I agree 
that this is a reasonable amount. But I dont think this means that I can tell MBNA that they 
need to do any more here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require MBNA Limited to pay Mr L 
£150 to recognise the inconvenience he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman