DRN-2375094
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how two savings account interest rate reductions were 
communicated to him by Nottingham Building Society (NBS). 
What happened
Mr M has a savings account with NBS. He received an email from it on 23 September 2019 
telling him to log into his account as there was a message in his secure inbox. The message 
in Mr Ms secure inbox said there was to be a reduction in the interest rate payable on his 
account from 7 October 2019. 
Mr M received a second email from NBS on 6 November 2019, again telling him to log into 
his account as there was a message in his secure inbox. The message said there was a 
second reduction in the interest rate payable on his account from 21 November 2019. 
Mr M complained to NBS in May 2020. He said he didnt read the emails straight away and 
so didnt immediately take steps to move his savings to a more competitive account. His 
complaint points were: 
1. The emails didnt identify the subject of the messages as a reduction in interest rates.
2. There was no indication in the emails that the secure message was important. 
3. NBS didnt follow the process outlined on its website for notifying customers of an 
interest rate reduction. 
4. The process adopted by NBS was unnecessarily convoluted. 
5. NBS didnt give sufficient notice of the interest rate reduction. 
6. The timing of the second notice - the day before the first interest rate reduction was 
due to take effect - is likely to have led customers to believe that the second notice 
was not about an interest rate reduction and so it might be ignored. 
NBS responded and pointed to its terms and conditions, which say that account related 
correspondence and notices will be sent by secure message and a separate email to inform 
about the secure message will be sent. It said it was Mr Ms choice not to check his account 
once the messages were received. NBS said its terms and conditions also say it needs to 
give 14 days notice of interest rate reductions and this was given. It said Mr Ms comments 
about the timing of the second notice were subjective. It also thanked Mr M for highlighting 
the wording on its website, which said it would tell customers they had an important 
message if it needed to change interest rates, and said its been raised as an urgent issue 
for its communication team. 
Mr M wasnt happy with NBSs response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and so 
this has come to me for a decision. 
Mr M provided additional information about his complaint and said he wanted me to focus 
only on two complaint points, namely:
1. The emails didnt identify the subject of the messages as a reduction in interest rates
2. NBS didnt follow the process outlined on its website for notifying customers of an 
interest rate reduction. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2020 and said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I gave both parties an opportunity to respond. 
Mr M responded and said he did not have any further evidence to provide. Mr M also said he 
did not agree with my provisional decision. 
NBS also responded and said it did not have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions in relation to Mr Ms account. These say that, in 
general, communication with consumers will be by secure message and that NBS may also 
send emails. So Im satisfied the method of communication used by NBS to inform Mr M of 
the interest rate reduction was in line with its terms and conditions. 
I know that Mr M feels NBS should have identified, within the subject box of the email, that 
the message was about a reduction in interest rates. But I dont think NBS needed to do this. 
Im satisfied it was enough for NBS to send an email to Mr M informing him that he had a 
secure message in his inbox. Its up to Mr M to read emails sent to him, if he wants to know 
what importance to attach to them.  
Mr M said the emails should have been flagged as important. And by not flagging them in 
this way, NBS didnt act in line with the process advised to consumers on its website. This 
said that if NBS needs to make a change to interest rates, it will inform consumers that they 
have an important secure message. 
I can see that NBS has acknowledged this inconsistency, said its unable to amend its 
standard email template but raised the issue with its communication team. And, having 
checked the website, I can see its been updated and no longer says the email will be 
flagged as important. So Im satisfied that NBS has done all it needs to do to ensure the 
inconsistency doesnt arise again. I now just need to look at whether Mr M was placed at a 
disadvantage because the emails werent flagged as important. 
Mr M said he became aware of the interest rate reductions in early November 2019, when 
he logged into his account and read the relevant emails. And he started the process of 
moving his savings elsewhere in mid-November 2019. So I think its likely that if Mr M had 
known about the interest rate changes in September 2019, when the first email was sent, 
then he would have started the process of moving his savings sooner.  
However, Im satisfied that NBS are not responsible for any delay in Mr M moving his 
savings. I acknowledge that its possible Mr M might have read the email in September more 
quickly than he did, if it had been flagged as important. But Im satisfied the onus is on Mr 
M to ensure he reads all communications from NBS within a reasonable amount of time. And 
Im satisfied that reading the email around six weeks after it was received is not a 
reasonable amount of time. If Mr M had read the email sooner, then he could have taken 
steps to move his savings elsewhere before the lower interest rate came into effect.  Mr M provided this service with information he has compiled about various other building 
societies that he says communicate in a more transparent way. And he has provided 
extracts from a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) paper outlining the FCAs expectations if 
failings are found with businesses. But I dont intend to address this information here. My 
decision is about Mr Ms complaint and Ive looked at it on its own merits. If Mr M feels any of 
the issues he has raised relate to NBS potentially falling short of FCA expectations, then he 
would need to raise this with the FCA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman