DRN-1039984
The complaint
Mr B complains as a director of I (a limited company) because he is unhappy PayPal Europe 
Sarl & Cie, SCA (Paypal) have permanently limited the companys account and withheld 
funds.
What happened
The Paypal account is used to accept payment for the services that the limited company 
provides. Mr Bs said it was the companys only platform to receive payment from customers. 
In May 2019, Paypal permanently limited the account and withheld funds without notice 
following a review as it felt the terms of the user agreement had been breached.
Mr B was unhappy with this decision and made a complaint on behalf of the limited 
company. He didnt think Paypal had made a fair decision or that it had engaged with him, as 
the company director, about what the breach was and how he might be able to make 
changes that allowed the suspension to be removed. He said the decision had brought 
business to a halt and the limited company was losing a significant amount of revenue as a 
result.
Paypal responded to the complaint but didnt overturn its decision. As Mr B remained 
unhappy he brought the complaint to our service to consider. The investigator who 
considered the complaint didnt feel Paypal had acted unfairly and that it was entitled to take 
the action it had. As Mr B didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he opened the account on behalf of the limited company, Mr B accepted the Paypal 
user agreement. Under section 10.2 it sets out that if he is engaging in a restricted activity 
when using the account, Paypal can take action including permanently limiting his access to 
the account and withholding funds. So Im satisfied the terms of the user agreement do allow 
Paypal to take the action it has in certain circumstances. My role is to consider whether 
Paypal has acted fairly and reasonably in deciding Mr B has been engaging in a restricted 
activity.
Section 9.1r of the user agreement sets out that Mr B has agreed he will not:
Undertake activity that does or may present to us a credit or fraud risk, a sudden 
increase in exposure, or a significant or otherwise detrimental level of exposure (as 
Paypal reasonably believes based on the information available to it)
It also sets out that if Mr B hasnt complied with the terms set out in section 9.1 hes 
considered to be carrying out a restricted activity. 
According to the activity on his Paypal account, Mr Bs business appears to provide likes 
and followers to users of a social media platform in order to increase their reach and 
engagement. Paypal feels this is a breach of the user agreement of the social media 
platform the service is related to. Because of this, it considers the activity to be a risk and 
therefore a breach of the term highlighted above.
Mr B has said the service he was accepting payment for was legitimate and Paypal 
shouldve discussed its decision to limit his account with him before it took any action. But 
whilst Mr B may not feel his business presented any risk, or breached the social media 
platforms terms, Paypal is ultimately allowed to use its commercial discretion to make 
decisions about what risk it is prepared to take on. In this case, it made the decision Mr B 
was breaching the terms of the user agreement and therefore engaging in a restricted 
activity. Based on the information provided, I think this was reasonable.
As Im satisfied Paypal wasnt acting unreasonably in considering Mr B to be engaging in 
restricted activity, Im satisfied it was entitled to permanently limit his account under 10.2 of 
the user agreement. And, given it felt the potential risk was increasing the longer the account 
remained in use, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable to limit the account without notice.
Part of Mr Bs complaint is that after limiting the account Paypal withheld the funds in the 
account. Paypal has confirmed it did withhold funds for 180 days following the limitation of 
the account. The user agreement allows Paypal to withhold funds for this amount of time 
after an account is limited as disputes can be raised up to 180 days after payment is made. 
In withholding funds for this period it ensures they are available to settle any potential 
disputes that might arise. Funds were returned to the limited company once the 180 days 
had passed. I think this was reasonable in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman