DRN-3390747
The complaint
Mr J complains that EBS Pensions Limited (EBS), his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) provider, gave him incorrect tax information, which he used for his income tax self-
assessment. He said this led to the expectation that HMRC owed him around £28,000 in 
overpaid tax. But that HMRC later confirmed that he actually owed them a further £3,000.
Mr J said he changed his lifestyle in anticipation of getting the tax refund. So he feels that 
EBS should compensate him. 
What happened
In early 2021, Mr J asked EBS to provide a breakdown of the income tax hed paid on the 
income hed received from his SIPP over the 2019 to 2020 tax year. He needed the 
information so he could complete his self-assessment with HMRC.
EBS emailed Mr J with the figures hed requested on 8 February 2021. They sent the total 
income theyd paid him, the net income hed received after tax, and the total tax hed paid 
over the 2019 to 2020 tax year. They also sent the four payslips theyd taken the information 
from. 
Mr J used the information in the email to complete his self-assessment. But didnt check it 
against the payslips hed been sent. After submitting his self-assessment, he said HMRC 
told him he was due a tax refund of around £28,000.
Mr J said he changed his lifestyle over the following months due to the expected tax refund. 
But he said that a few months later, HMRC told him that he wasnt due a refund. And he in 
fact owed them around £3,000. 
EBS said that their error had been corrected and the correct information had now been 
provided to HMRC. This showed that the Mr J did owe tax.  
Mr J complained to EBS on 1 April 2021.
EBS issued their final response to the complaint on 16 June 2021. They acknowledged that 
theyd made an error with the figures theyd provided on 8 February 2021. And offered £500 
compensation for the inconvenience and stress caused. 
Unhappy with EBSs response, Mr J brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
felt that EBS had made a fair compensation offer for the administration error theyd made. 
He didnt consider that they should be held liable for the additional costs Mr J said hed 
incurred because of the error, as he felt those costs couldve been mitigated. And didnt think 
they should be asked to do any more to put things right.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. So his complaint has come to me for a review.
I asked Mr J to provide this service with evidence about the £28,000 rebate, including when 
he first found out about it. Id noted that our file didnt include this information. I also asked 
him to provide evidence of the £3,000 additional tax bill, and the date HMRC had told him 
about that. He said he mustve already provided that information as our investigator had 
been able to issue his view. But Ive not found this evidence on our file.  
I listened to the full call between Mr J and our investigator in mid-September 2022. I 
understand that Mr J considers that as the SIPP provider had accepted responsibility for the 
error, it was clear to him that they must owe him the £28,000 or £31,000 that hed expected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I dont consider that EBS should be liable for Mr 
Js increased spending due to his expectation of a tax rebate. And Im satisfied that the 
compensation theyve offered Mr J in respect of their error was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. I know this will be disappointing to Mr J. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Its not in dispute that EBS made an error when they sent Mr J the 8 February 2021 email 
containing incorrect figures for the tax hed paid over the 2019 and 2020 tax year. What is in 
dispute is whether EBS should be held liable for the loss of the expected rebate Mr J was 
told he would get from HMRC.
Mr J feels that EBS should compensate him for both the loss of the expected tax rebate, and 
the actual tax he now owes  a total of £31,000. He said that he spent this money in 
anticipation of receiving it. 
EBS have acknowledged their mistake and offered Mr J £500 compensation for the distress 
it caused him. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service and all the documentary 
and telephone evidence provided. From what Ive seen, although EBS did provide incorrect 
information in their 8 February 2021 email, they also provided all payslips relevant to the 
2019 to 2020 tax year. EBS had told Mr J that he would be able to get the numbers he 
needed direct from the payslips. 
Mr J told this service that he didn't check the payslips to see if they matched the breakdown 
included in the email. And that he didnt remember the payslips. He also felt that the payslips 
wouldn't have given him all the information he needed. He said he relied on EBS to give him 
the correct information.
EBS said they werent tax experts. And that they felt Mr J shouldve reviewed the information 
theyd provided to him in full, or referred it to his accountant (if he had one) before using it for 
his self-assessment. They said that although theyd provided incorrect information, the 
correct information was included in the payslips theyd sent alongside the email containing 
the mistake. EBS said that the error was that the tax confirmed for November 2019 and 
March 2019 had mistakenly included the amounts Mr J had received as taxed income, in 
addition to the tax deducted. 
Ive looked at the payslips that were attached to the 8 February 2021 email. These do 
provide all of the information Mr J wouldve needed to check the numbers provided by EBS. I 
think its reasonable to expect Mr J to have checked those numbers, using the payslips he 
was provided with. I say this because he needed this information for his self-assessment tax 
return. And he was ultimately responsible for the information he provided to HMRC. I consider that if Mr J had checked the numbers, he wouldve noticed the mistake. I say this 
because the figures provided only showed two income amounts, plus a tax rebate, in the 
sum for the net income received. Im of the view that Mr J wouldve been aware that hed 
been paid more than twice over the tax year. I also consider that Mr J wouldve known that 
hed received more income over the tax year than the email showed. I say this because the 
amount shown was around half what hed actually received. 
As I consider that Mr J shouldve noticed the mistake before he used the provided numbers 
for his self-assessment, Im satisfied that he couldve prevented the error. 
I next considered what happened after Mr J used the incorrect numbers in his tax return. 
Mr J said that EBSs mistake led him to take financial decisions which had left him in debt. 
He said that the expectation of the large tax rebate had led him to live a different lifestyle 
than he wouldve otherwise had. He said that EBS should be held liable for the financial 
problems he felt were directly linked to their error. 
EBS said that a client shouldnt benefit from an error or mistake. They didnt think Mr J 
shouldve lived his life as if he was going to get a £28,000 rebate. And that until he actually 
received the rebate, he shouldnt have changed the way he lived. 
EBS said theyd offered £500 to compensate Mr J for having to amend his tax return. But 
they didnt believe that they were accountable for the rebate Mr J had expected, but in reality 
hadnt been entitled to. They said they hadnt seen any evidence from Mr J that his lifestyle 
had to change before he received the expected amount.  
Our investigator asked Mr J to provide evidence of the change in his lifestyle. Mr J said this 
was difficult to do. But he said that hed gone on holidays that he wouldve cancelled but for 
the expected rebate. And hed refurbished flats which he wouldn't have if he wasn't 
expecting the rebate. Mr J also provided a handwritten list detailing the additional 
expenditure he said hed made due to the expected rebate. 
Mr J also told this service that it took HMRC four to five months before they told him he 
wasnt due a refund. 
Ive carefully considered whether EBSs error had a financial impact on Mr J. And whether or 
not he couldve taken steps to minimise the loss or avoid it entirely.
As I noted above, Im already persuaded that Mr J probably shouldve noticed the mistake 
before he used the incorrect figures in his tax return. But even if Mr J hadnt noticed the 
mistake, I dont consider that EBS should be liable for the additional spending he said he 
started because he expected a £28,000 rebate. I say this because, from the evidence Ive 
seen, Mr J mustve become aware of the error no more than around seven weeks after it 
was made  the email containing the error was sent on 8 February 2021 and Mr J 
complained to EBS on 1 April 2021. 
The list of additional new lifestyle costs Mr J sent to this service contains significant 
spending that was made before EBS made the error. It also contains substantial spending 
made after Mr J was aware of the error. And after he knew that the tax rebate wasnt going 
to be paid.
I understand why Mr J mightve wanted to increase his outgoings in anticipation that he 
would receive a large tax refund. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr J needed to 
change his lifestyle in this way before he received the rebate he expected. And I agree with 
EBS that Mr J couldnt rely on that refund until he actually received it. I say this because HMRC tax outcomes can and do change at any time. I consider that it was Mr Js choice to 
spend more over the period after hed filed his tax return and before 1 April 2021, when he 
found out that his tax situation was likely to change. But it was also his risk to spend that 
money, as he wasnt certain he would ever receive the refund.
I also consider that any additional spending Mr J committed to before the error, or after he 
found out about the error, was his choice and his risk. I say this because its clear that EBS 
cant be held responsible for any spending choices before their mistake. And Im satisfied 
that after the mistake became known, Mr J mustve realised that he could no longer rely on 
the rebate hed previously expected. 
As our investigator said, when a business makes an error, this service aims to put the 
consumer as closely back to the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
But when a consumer chooses to increase the financial impact of the error, or doesnt take 
reasonable steps to prevent or reduce the impact, the business shouldnt be required to 
compensate the consumer for those avoidable losses. Im satisfied that in this case, Mr J 
couldve taken reasonable steps to prevent any financial impact. Therefore it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for me to hold EBS liable for any financial losses Mr J says hes suffered due 
to the error. 
As Im satisfied that EBS arent liable for any financial losses Mr J says hes suffered, I dont 
need the evidence Id requested from Mr J showing the date and amount of any tax rebates 
or underpayments. But if I had found in his favour, I wouldve needed that information. This 
is also why our investigator was able to issue his view on this complaint without that 
information.
I also considered if the £500 compensation EBS offered was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see that Mr J was given a false expectation for a period of about seven weeks that he 
would receive a large tax refund. Im also satisfied that he was inconvenienced by having to 
get to the bottom of the error and having to update his tax return. This wouldve been 
inconvenient and stressful. However, the £500 compensation EBS offered Mr J is in line with 
our services bands of compensation. Therefore Im satisfied that EBS have done enough to 
put things right. And I dont require them to do anything more.
Im sorry that Mr J is now in the position hes in. But I agree with EBS that they werent 
accountable for the rebate Mr J had expected, but hadnt actually been entitled to. I also 
dont consider that Mr J has provided any evidence that his lifestyle had to change before he 
received the rebate he expected.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman