DRN-3846275
Complaint
Miss W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In June 2015, Miss W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Miss W decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss Ws behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Miss W to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Miss W or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Miss W was verbally told the FIT payments and savings on 
energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments, that the system would be 
self-funding and Miss W relied on these representations. 
The CMC points out that the sales quotation document says that the payback year is 
10 years and she was not made aware that this related to cash purchases only. 
The CMC has referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to 
Miss W and this was upheld in the consumers favor  but it was for a different 
consumer against a different provider. It also pointed out that the way the estimates 
were calculated in this court case suggest P over estimated Miss Ws benefits.
The CMC says P used an incorrect FIT rate and electricity unit rate to formulates its 
estimates. 
Finally, the CMC highlighted that Shawbrook had paid commission to suppliers in 
other cases and so they felt they might have paid commission in this case. It also 
pointed out that the sales advisor was likely paid commission by P for the sale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 140 and section 56 of the Act. Section 140A is 
about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the 
CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss W 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Miss W says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that while Ive considered carefully the comments made by the CMC, each case 
brought to our service is assessed on the individual merits of that case. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Miss W was told that the cost of the system was £9,193.80. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £9,193.80. The total amount of credit is £9,193.80 and goes on to 
show that the total amount payable would be £17,974.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £97.39. But I note 
Miss W deferred her payments for a few months which is reflected in her credit agreement 
and her monthly payment is also marginally different at £99.86  but I dont think these 
differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
she was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,193.80, it would 
cost Miss W more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Miss W has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss W could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss W could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £476.42, which results in an average monthly income of £39.70. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss W could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £351.78 and the combined income and savings 
in year one is shown as £803.35. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £97.39 (which amounts to £1,168.68 annually). As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payment and additional savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Miss W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £97.39. For each year of the15-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £97.39, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss W could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Miss W that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss W was told by P that the system would be self-funding over 
a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Miss W 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
I appreciate the CMC has pointed out that elsewhere in the quote, it says the payback year 
is year 10 and Miss W was not told this is in relation to cash purchases. However, that 
section does specify that these figures dont include the finance charges. The table above 
also shows that by year 10, the total estimated benefits is only £10,013.89  which is 
significantly less than the total cost of the system. So overall, I think its clear that the 
reference to payback year is in relation to the cash price of the system only, and as Ive 
explained above, I think Miss W was aware that she was paying for the system using finance 
and that it would cost her more than the cash price of the system. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss W that the system would pay for itself by 
year 16 (including the finance charges) , and this is supported by the table above included in 
the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3012.45 kWh a year.
I have looked at Miss Ws FIT statements and can see what the solar panels are generating 
on average annually. Im satisfied that the system is performing at around the expected level 
of performance. 
The CMC has referred to a recent court case involving a different consumer which it says 
suggests the way P estimated Miss Ws benefits resulted in overinflated figures. As Ive 
explained above, each case is decided on the individual merits of the case. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss W 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss W entered into the 
contract.
I understand the CMC has pointed out that the FIT rate used to formulate the estimates was 
not the rate applicable at the time of sale. However, as the CMC may be aware, FIT rates 
changes frequently beyond the control of P, so I think updating the rates in use periodically 
was reasonable. The quote was only giving estimates and not a guarantee of performance 
over 20 years. I would add that the rate couldve changed again before Miss Ws system was 
installed and the FIT application completed, so updating the rates periodically was not 
unreasonable. 
The CMC has also added that it felt P used an incorrect electricity unit rate. However, 
usually P only used the actual rate a customer was being charged if they provided bills  
otherwise P used a reasonable figure to work out the potential savings the system will 
generate. If bills were provided, I have no reason to doubt they would have been used in this 
case. I havent seen sufficient evidence that the installer made any errors here, and I think 
the rate used was a reasonable one.
So Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140 the Act. 
I appreciate the CMC has pointed out that Shawbrook has accepted it paid commission in 
other cases  while that may be true, this doesnt evidence that commission was paid in this case. Additionally, P may have paid its sales representatives on a commission basis, but this 
would not create an unfair relationship under section 140 of the Act either.  
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. As previously explained, 
Shawbrook has confirmed that it paid no commission to P in this case and, considering that I 
havent found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions 
used by P were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss W to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman