DRN-3274369
The complaint
Mrs G complains St James's Place UK (SJP) plc has been unable to provide evidence that 
an investment plan she held with them was surrendered in 2002 and the proceeds paid to 
her. She asks for the plan value to be paid to her.
What happened
Mrs G is represented by a third-party representative, but for ease I shall refer to Mrs G 
throughout my decision.
Mrs G held a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) with SJP.
Recently whilst completing a house clearance she came across a letter dated 15 July 2001 
which said her investment plan had a balance of just over £18,000. Mrs G did not recall this 
investment and contacted SJP to query the details of her investment.
SJP took a while to locate the information but eventually where able to explain the plan had 
been surrendered and all proceeds paid out to her, but it said it had limited evidence as the 
events occurred so long ago. Ms G checked her bank statements and could see no evidence 
of such a pay out and so she complained.
In its final response dated 29 June 2021, SJP didnt uphold her complaint. It confirmed the 
plan was opened on 19 August 1993 and surrendered on 17 December 2002 with a balance 
of just over £13,000 paid to Mrs G by way of a cheque. Two further tax credit reinvestments 
were made on 15 January 2003 and 15 January 2004, leaving a balance of £18.30. On 14 
November 2005 a request to withdraw all funds was made. SJP issued a final cheque for the 
balance of the account on 18 November 2005 and the account was closed.
Mrs G did not consider this sufficient evidence and brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs G. He didnt uphold her complaint. In his view he 
said he appreciated there was very little evidence but on the balance of probabilities, he felt 
SJP had evidenced through their ledgers that the payments it describes had more likely than 
not been paid out. He didnt feel he could fairly or reasonably ask SJP to take any further 
action.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said.
I am aware that Mrs G hasnt been in the best of health and I appreciate finding a letter over 
20 years old which indicated a reasonable balance at the time was something she wanted to 
investigate.
I also dont doubt that Mrs G has given us her honest recollections when she says she has 
no knowledge of what happened to that investment nor any evidence from her bank account 
to show a cheque was paid in. After all, these events took place over twenty years ago and 
even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade.
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
This complaint concerns itself with events that happened between seventeen and twenty
years ago, and seventeen years since the account it refers to was closed. This is relevant, 
as the investigator said, in that a business is only required to (and indeed supposed to) keep 
detailed information for six years after the closure of the account. This means that a lot of the 
information that I could ask for in regard to a more modern account simply doesnt exist 
anymore. This relates to what I can reasonably ask SJP to provide. 
It has provided an account ledger showing the balances being paid from the
account in 2002 and 2005 as they describe. I also note that the surrender occurred after the 
letter Mrs G has chanced upon was dated in 2001. SJP arent required to maintain this 
information after an account has been closed for this long  which would
include the cheque numbers needed to trace payments.
I appreciate Mrs G has no recollection of where this investment was paid to but following the 
only evidence she has, which is a letter dated in 2001, SJP has provided evidence of 
payments issued in 2002 and 2005. So, I find it more likely than not that the investment was 
closed in accordance with the ledgers SJP provided.
I think its understandable that Mrs G doesnt recollect what happened at the time  but having 
balanced that against the information provided by SJP, Im not persuaded it has done 
anything wrong, so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask them to pay any compensation.
I understand Mrs G will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman