DRN-4122242
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, surrounding a request for Halifax to recover money on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs P asked Halifax to recover several standing order (SO) payments that shed incorrectly 
made to a third-party. Halifax initially told Mrs P that they were unable to recover the money 
because it had been paid by SO, but they later did contact the third-partys bank on Mrs Ps 
behalf. However, Halifax were unable to recover the money from the third-party as Mrs P 
was wanting. Mrs P wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Halifax apologised to Mrs P for not attempting to recover her money when she first contacted 
them, and they made a payment of £20 to Mrs P as compensation for any inconvenience or 
upset she may have incurred because of this. However, Halifax confirmed that when they 
had reached out to the third-partys bank, theyd been unable to recover the money. Mrs P 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel it could be reasonably said 
that because Halifax didnt contact the third-party bank in the first instance that this was why 
Halifaxs attempt to recover Mrs Ps money had been unsuccessful. But they did recommend 
that Halifax should pay a further £55 to Mrs P  taking the total compensation to £75  for 
the trouble shed incurred in having to go back to Halifax and repeat her request for them to 
try to recover her money. Mrs P didnt respond to the view of this complaint put forwards by 
our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mrs P made the payments in question via SO, she was ultimately responsible for 
managing those payments and stopping them when she no longer wanted the payments to 
continue. And Halifaxs role regarding these payments was simply one of processing the 
ongoing instruction to make the payments to the specified third-party account on the 
specified dates as directed by the SO.
Because the responsibility for the SO instruction rested with Mrs P, when Halifax did contact 
the third-party bank to try to recover the disputed amount, they did so a best endeavours 
basis. This means that Halifax accepted no liability for the disputed amount  which as 
explained was paid by the SO instruction which Mrs P was ultimately responsible for  but 
would try to recover the money via the appropriate process on Mrs Ps behalf.
This involved Halifax writing to the third-party bank and asking them to recover the money 
from their account holder to whom the money had been paid. This seems reasonable to me, 
given that the party to whom the money was paid wasnt a customer of Halifax but was a 
customer of the third-party bank. And while I can appreciate that Mrs P might have wanted a 
different process to have been followed, I dont feel that her expectation in this regard is 
reasonable or that Halifax have acted unfairly by following the process that they did.
Unfortunately, the third-party bank later confirmed that, while they had reached out to their 
account holder, they hadnt received a response from them and so hadnt received the 
authority to enable them to return the disputed money to Mrs Ps Halifax account. Again, I 
can appreciate Mrs Ps frustration in this regard, but because the SO payments were made 
under Mrs Ps authorisation, Halifax were limited to what action they could take. And it 
wasnt the case that they could simply take the money from the third-party bank.
Mrs P may feel that, had Halifax tried to recover the money when she first approached them, 
it may have been the case that the money could have been recovered. But, given that the 
recipient party didnt respond to their banks attempt to contact them about the money when 
Halifax did try to recover the money for Mrs P, I dont feel that it can be reasonably 
hypothesised that the recipient party would have responded and authorised the return of the 
money to Mrs P had Halifax contacted the third-party bank on Mrs Ps behalf any earlier. 
Ultimately, this means that I dont feel that Halifax should fairly or reasonably be considered 
as being liable or accountable for Mrs P not being able to recover the money via Halifax as 
she contends here. And so, it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of her complaint.
However, Im in agreement with our investigator that the £20 that Halifax paid to Mrs P 
doesnt provide fair compensation for the trouble and upset she incurred resulting from their 
not contacting the third-party bank on Mrs Ps behalf in the first instance. And Im also in 
agreement with our investigators recommendation that Halifax should make a further 
payment of £55 to Mrs P on account of this.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ps favour, Ill only be doing so to 
instruct Halifax to make a further payment of £55 to Mrs P as described above. I realise this 
might not be the outcome Mrs P was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman