DRN-1461630
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Coverwise Ltd have renewed his travel insurance without him asking 
them to do so.
 
What happened
Mr A took out an annual travel policy with Coverwise in May 2018. 
The policy automatically renewed in May 2019 and Mr A has said he was not aware of the 
renewal until he saw that the premium had been taken from his bank account..
In July 2019 Mr A wrote to Coverwise to ask that the payment for the policy be refunded and 
confirming that he had not authorised them to renew the policy or take payment. 
Coverwise says it wrote to Mr A in April 2019 to notify him that the policy would automatically 
renew. So it was satisfied it had acted in line with the information it had provided to Mr A, 
and in line with the terms of the policy. Coverwise also explained that it allows an extended 
cooling off period of up to 31 days for unwanted automatic renewals beyond their standard 
14-day cancellation period. But that since Mr As policy had been in force for over 31 days it 
was unable to offer a refund of the premium.
Mr A was unhappy with the response he received from Coverwise. Mr A said that when he 
took out the original policy it was not explained to him that it would automatically renew, and 
that if Coverwise had made him aware of the auto-renewal he would have stopped it. Mr A 
also stated that the did not receive a warning of any 31-day period to cancel the renewal. 
In their final written response Coverwise said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Coverwise reiterated that Mr A was made aware of the automatic renewal when the policy 
was taken out and had sent Mr A a reminder before the renewal took place. 
Coverwise said that since the renewal process was followed correctly, and the policy terms 
and conditions had been adhered to it wouldnt be changing its position. So it was unable to 
offer Mr A a refund. 
Our investigator thought that Coverwise had acted fairly. Mr A didnt agree and said it wasnt 
clear when he took out the policy that it would renew automatically. He did not receive any 
letters regarding the renewal and he disregarded the emails from Coverwise, as he didnt 
appreciate the consequences of doing so
. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr A took the policy out in 2018, he did so online. I have seen a screen capture of the 
relevant part of the application Mr A would have seen at this time. It says the following;
Please Note 
To save time and effort well contact you next year with your new quote
and use the details youve already given us to renew your policy. Of 
course you can choose not to renew or to change your details at any time
There is no link or box to tick to opt in or out of auto-renewal but I think the information as 
presented is clear enough. It highlights that the policy would renew automatically. 
There was also information provided within the policy summary and schedule Mr A was 
provided with that details information on the renewals process, as well as what to do if a 
policyholder wishes to cancel the policy. So I think Mr A was made aware of this process 
from his policys inception.
I have been provided with a copy of the email sent to Mr A notifying him of the renewal. This 
explained Mr As policy would renew the following month. I think this gave him sufficient 
notice that the policy would begin soon. 
Under the section What you need to do now there were instructions on how to cancel the 
renewal either by telephone or email. The email was sent to Mr As email address in April 
2019. The email clearly explained the position, and what Mr A needed to do if he didnt want 
the auto-renewal to happen. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr A then said that he 
didnt want to renew the policy. So, I think Coverwise acted fairly in renewing the policy as it 
did. 
Mr A has confirmed to this service that he disregarded any emails he received from 
Coverwise. I dont think I can reasonably hold Coverwise responsible for Mr As decision not 
to read the email.
I note that Mr A has 
concerns regarding the practice of auto-renewal in general. This is standard practice 
amongst many insurers. It is beyond my powers to compel a business to amend its practices 
where a business decision has been made. My role here is to consider whether the practices 
are fair and reasonable. Whilst I understand Mr As position, Im satisfied that Coverwise 
made Mr A aware of the auto renewal and he was provided with a reasonable period of time 
to cancel the renewal should he have wished to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman