DRN-3022821
Complaint
Mr P has complained about the fees and interest The Co-operative Bank 
Plc (Co-op) applied to his current accounts and a credit card. Hes said 
the interest, fees and charges added caused him financial hardship.
Background and my provisional decision of 17 August 2021
Co-op initially said that we couldnt look at Mr Ps complaint about two of 
his accounts as he complained more than six years after the charges in 
question were applied. However, it later agreed that we could look at the 
charges applied on accounts ending 2360 and 5434 between January 
2004 and January 2010 as Mr P initially complained in January 2010. All 
parties also agree that we can look at the charges applied on account 
ending 4066 from June 2013.
To be clear, this decision is only looking at the charges applied on 
accounts ending 2360 and 5434 between January 2004 and January 
2010; and the charges applied on account ending 4066 from June 2013.
On 17 August 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial 
findings on Mr Ps complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will 
instead provide a summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that I hadnt considered whether the various amounts 
Co-op charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much 
a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while I didnt look at Co-ops charging structure per se, I did 
think it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it applied 
these interest, fees and charges to    Mr Ps account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware 
Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty. So I considered whether there 
were instances where Co-op didnt treat Mr P fairly and reasonably. 
I looked through Mr Ps statements on the accounts throughout the 
period concerned. And I couldnt see that Co-op ought to have been 
aware that Mr P might have been struggling during these periods. Mr P 
didnt appear to use his overdraft that often. And there were significant 
periods when Mr Ps account balance was in credit. I also pointed out 
that account ending 4066 was a student account for most of the period 
concerned and didnt have any interest charged as a result.
Equally, while I wasnt seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mr P expenditure, nonetheless there were significant amounts of 
non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions as well 
as cash withdrawals from the account too. And the amount being 
credited to Mr Ps accounts each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either.
I did accept that neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) 
meant that Mr P wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. Id seen what 
hed said about his circumstances at prior to 2011 and I was really sorry 
to learn of this. But there wasnt anything in Mr Ps account statements 
or in the transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Co-op 
to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Co-op to proceed with the limited amount of 
interest, fees and charges it did add to Mr Ps accounts. And I dont think 
Co-op unfairly charged Mr P in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this was the case, I didnt intend to find that Co-op needed to refund 
any of the interest, fees and charges added to Mr Ps accounts and I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Co-ops response to my provisional decision
Co-op confirm receipt of my provisional decision and that it had nothing 
further for me to think about.
Mr Ps response to my provisional decision   
Mr P also responded to my provisional decision. He confirmed his 
disagreement and in summary he:
said that objectively the interest was unfair as per the decision of 
the court;
queried whether I had heard of the aims of section 9 of the Lending Code and the Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook;
said his use of his overdraft was irrelevant to the unfairness of the 
interest in his situation;
said I should have asked for evidence of his mental state and 
financial difficulties and he provided evidence of this.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr P for his further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered everything
hes said and provided.
I want to start by saying that I can understand why Mr P will have found 
my provisional decision disappointing. But I didnt make a determination 
on his mental health or whether hed gone through a difficult time. 
Clearly, he has gone through a difficult period and I can only apologise if 
he feels that my provisional decision didnt convey that.
I didnt ask for the further information Mr P has now provided because I 
accepted what he said about his mental health and his situation. That 
said, what I was required to determine in my provisional decision and 
what Im still required to determine in this final decision, is whether Co-
op charged Mr P unfairly and whether it needs to refund the interest it 
charged.
Mr P hasnt been specific about the court case hes referred to. 
However, given what hes said and when he first contacted Co-op, I 
think hes referring to the Supreme Court judgement in Office of Fair 
Trading v Abbey National plc and Others [2009] UKSC 6. I appreciate 
that Mr P believes the court said objectively the interest on overdrafts is 
unfair.
But this isnt the case. In this case, what the court held was that the 
charges for unarranged or unauthorised overdrafts couldnt be 
challenged on the grounds that they were too high or disproportionate.
This is why my provisional decision said that I hadnt considered whether 
the various amounts Co-op charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service 
provided. And ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision, which isnt something for me to get involved with.Notwithstanding this, there are instances and circumstances where a 
bank may not have treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying charges to an account or accounts. And it is precisely with 
reference to publications such as those Mr P has referred to - like The
Banking Code  Guidance for subscribers (in place for most of the 
period Ive looked at), The Lending Standards Boards Lending Code 
and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook  I considered Co-ops actions.
Id like to reassure Mr P that Im fully aware of the publications hes 
referred to. And I had considered them when reaching my provisional 
decision and this final decision. But Im afraid that I dont agree these 
publications suggest, imply or provide an indefinite immunity from being 
charged interest when borrowing on an overdraft facility in the way he 
appears to be suggesting.
For the sake of completeness, it may also be useful for me to explain 
that my role here isnt to enforce the various rules and codes of practice. 
Of course, what these rules and codes say do set out the standards 
expected of firms. But I remain satisfied that factors such as how a 
facility is being used and the transactions being made are equally 
important matters when determining whether a bank acted fairly and 
reasonably when adding overdraft interest fees and charges to an 
account.
I do accept that Mr P was being pursued for debts on other credit. And 
his creditors, on those debts, including Co-op, did have an obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration when Mr P wasnt able to 
make payment. I dont know if this did happen. But this is a matter Mr P 
will have to take up with the lenders concerned, if he think this didnt
happen and he hasnt already complained about it.
In any event, what Im required to consider in relation to this complaint is 
whether Mr Ps account conduct necessitated taking corrective action in 
relation to his overdraft bearing in mind the consequences  such as 
adverse credit information  related to it. And I think that the nature of  
Mr Ps overdraft transactions coupled with his accounts going into credit 
meant that the account was being run within the terms and conditions 
and there was no suggestion any overdraft was unsustainable.
In these circumstances, I think that it would have been disproportionate 
for Co-op to have taken corrective action in relation to Mr Ps overdraft. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for Co-op to proceed with the 
limited amount of interest, fees and charges it did add to Mr Ps 
accounts.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, including Mr Ps 
further points in response to my provisional decision, Im still not 
upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 
17 August 2021, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman