DRN-3185705
The complaint
Mr M complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited (Motors) should meet his claim on 
a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Motors, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Motors 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
In late March 2019, Mr M bought a car. He also bought a package of assistance and  
protection including Cosmetic Repair Insurance for a period of three years. Motors was the 
insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
In March 2021, Mr M reported that a storm had caused tree branches to fall and make small 
dents to his car. Motors declined his claim. 
So Mr M complained to Motors. By a final response dated April 2021, Motors turned down 
the complaint. Motors said that the policy didnt cover the damage because it was more than 
30cm. Motors also said that the policy didnt cover repair because it would not be possible 
using cosmetic repair techniques.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in May 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Motors Insurance Company Limited declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr M disagrees with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
There is provision within the policy document for a £150.00 contribution for a 
conventional repair in lieu of a cosmetic repair.
He asks how much time must pass between dents so that they are different incidents 
of damage - each of less than 30cm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy contained definitions including the following:
Chip(s)  A chipped area on the Vehicle up to a maximum of 1.5cm in diameter or 
3mm in depth.

Cosmetic Repair  A repair technique suitable for repairing Minor Cosmetic 
Damage. A Cosmetic Repair involves restoring eligible damaged areas as close as 
possible back to their original condition and where appropriate includes a Touch-in 
Repair, however no repair will be identical to the original automotive factory finish.

Incident  The cause of the damage for which You are making a claim.
Light Scratch  A scratched area on the Vehicle where the scratch is up to a 
maximum of 30cm in length or 3mm in depth.

Minor Cosmetic Damage - A Chip, Minor Dent, Light Scratch and/or Scuffed 
Bumper caused by a single Incident, where the total damaged area is no larger than 
30cm in diameter or 3mm in depth and, in the case of a Chip(s) is no larger than 
1.5cm in diameter or 3mm in depth.
Any one claim is limited to one Minor Cosmetic Damage repair, unless in the case of 
multiple damages caused by a single incident where the total end to end size of the 
furthermost points of the combined damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter 
or 3mm in depth.
Any repairs which are greater than these limits or are estimated to exceed four hours 
to complete will not be considered to be Minor Cosmetic Damage.
Minor Dent  A dented area on the Vehicle up to a maximum of 30cm in diameter or 
3mm in depth.

Territorial Limits  The United Kingdom and the Channel Islands, excluding the Isle 
of Wight and the Islands of Scotland (including the Shetland, Orkney, Inner Hebrides 
and Outer Hebrides Islands).
Touch-in Repair  A repair to a Chip or Light Scratch to a horizontal surface, 
bonnet, roof or saloon boot top. A Touch-in Repair involves the Minor Cosmetic 
Damage to be colour matched and painted as close as possible to the original finish.
A Touch-in Repair will be weatherproof, but will remain visible.
I have added the underlining for ease of reference.
The policy terms included the following:
Cover Provided
We will provide a Cosmetic Repair or where appropriate a Touch-in Repair to 
Minor Cosmetic Damage to Your Vehicle up to the Claim Limit shown on Your 
Validation Certificate, subject to the terms and conditions of this policy.
Your Claim Limit is determined by the duration of policy You have purchased as 
follows:

 For a 36 month policy the Claim Limit is 18 claims.

In the event that a Cosmetic Repair cannot be used to repair Minor Cosmetic 
Damage on Your Vehicle under this policy, the policy will contribute up to a 
maximum of £150 including VAT towards the cost of having a conventional body 
shop repair carried out whereby the Minor Cosmetic Damage has been repaired as 
a result. This is subject to being provided an invoice from a VAT registered repairer 
for the work carried out.
I have added the underlining for ease of reference.
The policy had exclusions as follows:Exclusions
You will not be covered for Minor Cosmetic Damage:
 that cannot be defined as a Light Scratch, Chip, Scuffed Bumper or Minor Dent 
or any Minor Cosmetic Damage where a Cosmetic Repair is not technically 
possible;
 to horizontal flat surfaces, roofs, bonnets and boot tops where the Repairer deems 
it not possible to achieve a satisfactory finish using Cosmetic Repair or Touch-in 
Repair techniques;

 where Your Vehicle is located outside the Territorial Limits;
I have added the underlining for ease of reference.
I find that the policy covered a Cosmetic Repair or a Touch-In Repair to Minor Cosmetic 
Damage but not if a Cosmetic Repair was not technically possible.
In the context of this policy, and in the absence of evidence of when each branch caused 
each dent, I consider that the storm and the falling branches were a single incident.
I find it clear that the policy didnt cover a combined damage area larger than 30cm in 
diameter or 3mm in depth.
Mr M reported four dents to his car. I dont consider that Motors has shown that a Cosmetic 
Repair wasnt technically possible.
However, I find that the total end to end size of the furthermost points of the combined 
damaged area was larger than 30cm in diameter. So the damage wasnt Minor Cosmetic 
Damage and the policy didnt cover a repair. 
As it wasnt Minor Cosmetic Damage, the policy didnt cover a contribution of £150.00 
towards a conventional repair.
So I dont find that Motors treated Mr M unfairly by declining his claim. And I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Motors to do  any more in response to the claim or this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Motors Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman