DRN-1962421
The complaint
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of his late fathers (Mr B Snrs) estate. Mr B says the 
estate has been disadvantaged because National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) hasnt 
properly paid out all of the funds in the account at the time of Mr B Snrs death. 
What happened
Mr B Snr sadly passed away in 2003. In 2004, Natwest paid the funds in Mr B Snrs bank 
account to a person claiming to be his next of kin. 
When Mr B learned of his fathers death, and made enquiries of his bank account, he was 
surprised to learn that the funds had already been paid out.
Natwest sent Mr B a complaint response in December 2010, setting out why they had 
released the funds to someone else. They didnt uphold his complaint. However, they paid 
Mr B the residual balance of £3,817 after a deduction for funeral expenses and, as a gesture 
of goodwill, in recognition of Mr Bs concerns about lost interest and the impact of events on 
him, also offered £35 and £350 respectively.
 
Mr B complained to Natwest in 2018 and they paid the £350 compensation theyd previously 
offered. Mr B remained unhappy about the sum of £1,914 that Natwest hadnt paid to the 
estate in 2010 and so brought his complaint to this service. 
 
After establishing the timeline of events and history of complaints, our investigator looked at 
the merits of the complaint brought by Mr B as the representative of the estate. He thought 
that Natwest hadnt done anything wrong in deducting the funeral costs from the sum paid to 
the estate, and so the case has come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strength of Mr Bs feelings on the matter, and I appreciate that this is a 
lengthy and upsetting situation that he has been dealing with. What I must decide, is whether 
Natwest have done anything wrong. 
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  as some of it is here  I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
 
Natwest have told us that they no longer have any records in relation to the distribution of 
funds from Mr B Snrs account, or the previous complaints made to them by Mr B. This is 
understandable given the time that has passed. 
Mr B has been able to provide a number of documents relating to the release of funds by 
Natwest, complaints he has made to Natwest and their responses, and his fathers funeral.
 
Based on the evidence, I am satisfied that Natwest released £3,817.46 from Mr B Snrs 
account to a person claiming to be his next of kin. Natwest have explained that they followed 
their internal process for releasing these funds when there is no will or grant of probate in 
place. It is not for this service to say what a businesss processes should be, but to decide if 
they have been fairly applied. Its standard industry practice for banks to have in place the 
sort of post-bereavement procedures Natwest have described and I havent seen any 
evidence that persuades me that Natwest did anything wrong in distributing these funds in 
2004. 
When Mr B contacted Natwest in 2009 they paid the balance of £3,817.46 to him as the 
correct next of kin. So, I think they acted fairly in respect of the residual balance. 
Mr Bs current complaint centres on the remaining £1,914 that Natwest have not paid to the 
estate. 
In Natwests 2010 letter to Mr B they confirm that the remaining funds of £3,817.46, after 
funeral expenses, was released to the person claiming to be Mr B Snrs next of kin. I accept 
this as being an accurate record of their findings at the time, and that the £1,914 was 
released separately by Natwest for the purpose of funeral expenses. 
Mr B has provided evidence of three life insurance policies taken out by Mr B Snr and says 
that these were clearly taken with the intention of paying for funeral costs. The policies paid 
out in May 2005, which was some time after the death of Mr B Snr. So, Im not persuaded 
that the payment of these policies is evidence that the £1,914 was not used to pay for Mr B 
Snrs funeral.  
The evidence available now is limited, but on balance it seems that Natwest fairly released 
£1,914 in 2003 and that it was likely used to pay for funeral expenses. Theres nothing to 
suggest that Natwest didnt fairly follow its procedures for the release of the residual 
£3,817.46, and they then paid this to Mr B when he approached them with the correct next of 
kin information. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Natwest did anything wrong in 
distributing the sums that it did from Mr B Snrs account in 2003/04, the payment they made 
in 2010 to Mr B, or that the estate has been disadvantaged by Natwests actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021. 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman