DRN-2252222
The complaint
Mr M and Miss W are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc have registered a 
claim against their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M and Miss W were thinking about changing their home insurance provider away from 
RSA. When getting a quote from another insurer they found out that a claim had been 
lodged on their policy in late 2017. Mr M and Miss W didnt think this was right so 
complained to RSA.
RSA explained to Mr M and Miss W that in late 2017 Mr M had contacted them about 
problems he was having with some electrics and also an issue with oil in the house. They 
said that a contractor was appointed to investigate the problem with the oil and after an 
inspection the claim was declined. RSA said they had to keep an accurate record of events 
and because a contractor had been appointed, this would be reflected on the policy as a 
claim. Mr M and Miss W disagreed and brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought there was no error by RSA 
and they had recorded the claim correctly. Mr M and Miss W disagreed saying that the claim 
should be against a company whod been working at the house at the time, and not them. 
Our investigator considered this and provided Mr M and Miss W with copies of the notes 
from when Mr M spoke with RSA about the problems. Giving Mr M and Miss W further detail 
about what happened, including visits to the house about the oil problem, she was still happy 
with how the claim was recorded. Mr M and Miss W remained unhappy so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a duty to record accurate information about activities on policies. When a 
consumer makes a claim the details of this will be recorded. 
What isnt in doubt here is that Mr M spoke with RSA and action was taken. The issue is that 
Mr M feels this shouldnt be recorded as claim on the policy.
Ive reviewed the notes from RSA as well as the telephone calls made by Mr M. Having done 
so Im satisfied that the claim has been recorded correctly.
Mr M spoke with RSA several times in late November and early December 2017. During 
these calls Mr M told RSA that there were problems with some workmanship from a 
company who had been at the house doing work, and also some problems with the flow of 
oil. RSA explained that they couldnt look at the issues with workmanship, but they could 
look at the problems with the oil flow. RSA went on to say that in order to see if the problem 
with the oil was an insured event covered under the policy theyd need to send someone out 
to have a look. Mr M gave his contact details and RSA went ahead and booked a visit. 
There were two visits the property; one by a loss adjuster and another by contractor. After 
these visits it was decided there was no insured event with the oil problem. This was 
because the contractor couldnt find a leak with the oil, so no work was required. 
Mr M says that the claim should be made against the company who had been doing work at 
the house as it turns out later that they had done some poor workmanship that caused 
problems. I can see why Mr M feels this way, but at the time he spoke with RSA I think its 
clear that the issues with workmanship and the oil problems were being treated as two 
different things. I think RSA was clear about was being considered under the policy, and 
what wasnt.  
During the telephone calls between RSA and Mr M the word claim is used quite a few 
times. I think RSA made it clear that what Mr M had told them, and the action that was being 
taken about the oil flow problem, was being lodged as a claim. If Mr M didnt want this to 
happen there were opportunities to stop the process. 
Having considered everything, including all of the correspondence from Mr M, Im satisfied 
that RSA acted fairly and reasonably when recording the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman