DRN-2933298
The complaint
 Ms T complains that Santander UK Plc closed her bank accounts and applied a marker 
against her name which meant she had trouble opening another bank account and obtaining 
a mortgage.
What happened
 Ms T had three accounts with Santander. On 3 March 2020, Santander reviewed Ms Ts 
accounts and asked her to provide information to show she was entitled to the money in the 
accounts.
Ms T told the bank she had two jobs and was also studying. She explained the money in her 
accounts were her wages and student loan payments. She provided the bank with her 
payslips and paperwork relating to her student loan to support what she said. She also told 
the bank that she was renting a room in a shared house with a number of other people. 
Santander reviewed all the information Ms T provided. Whilst it did so it blocked Ms Ts 
accounts. Once it had completed its review the bank decided to close all of her accounts. 
Santander wrote to Ms T giving her 30 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements and allowed Ms T access to her balance on 13 March 2020. 
Santander also applied a SIRA inconsistency marker against Ms Ts name on 9 March 
2020 as during its review it discovered multiple applications for accounts had been made 
from Ms Ts address with conflicting details. 
After Santander told Ms T it was closing her accounts, she attempted to open another bank 
account with at least four other banks. But shortly after each of them were opened they were 
opened each account was closed. Ms T was also in the process of obtaining a mortgage and 
had an agreement in principle, however, shortly after Santander closed her accounts, her 
mortgage offer was declined. 
Ms T complained to Santander about the closure of her accounts. And asked the bank if it 
had placed a marker against her name which was making it difficult for her to open another 
bank account and obtain a mortgage. She explained to the bank that she hadnt done 
anything wrong and couldnt be held responsible for the actions of others who lived at her 
address who made applications for accounts with Santander. She said she simply rented a 
room at the address and felt Santander was discriminating against her on the grounds of her 
nationality. 
Santander said it wasnt willing to change it decision to close Ms Ts accounts. However, the 
bank reviewed its decision to load the inconsistency SIRA marker against Ms T and 
removed it on 25 March 2020   which meant it wouldnt be visible to other banks when Ms T 
applied to open an account. So, it said shed be able to open other bank accounts without 
any issues. Santander apologised for any trouble and upset the marker had caused Ms T. 
And paid her £50 compensation.
Ms T was unhappy with this response. She said the bank hadnt treated her fairly. She 
explained she couldnt withdraw her account balance until she was able to open an account, 
which wasnt until the marker had been removed. And she had to go to a lot of trouble 
visiting several banks to open accounts, which was in the midst of the pandemic. So, she 
was caused a great deal of worry and anxiety. She also said that at the time she was 
applying for a mortgage and the bank whod offered her a mortgage changed its mind and 
didnt want to follow through with its offer. However, once Santander had removed the 
marker, and she was able to show Santanders final response letter which set out that the 
marker had been removed, the bank was happy to proceed with her mortgage offer. 
So, she didnt think Santanders offer of £50 adequately reflected the amount of trouble and 
upset shed suffered. And she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ts complaint. She thought Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it reviewed Ms Ts accounts and asked her for proof of entitlement to 
the funds. However, she said that the bank should have allowed Ms T access to her salary 
and student loan sooner than it did  as Ms T had been receiving the same payments into 
her accounts for at least two years. The investigator said Santander should do more to put 
things right given the amount of distress and inconvenience shed been caused by the 
marker. And said Santander should pay Ms T an additional £150 compensation. Santander 
agreed. Ms T didnt. She wants more compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive read and considered all of Ms Ts submissions regarding her complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
Ill deal first with the SIRA marker which the bank recorded against Ms T. Santander has 
accepted it made a mistake when it applied an inconsistency marker against Ms Ts name. 
And its apologised for the impact this had on Ms T. Santander has also agreed to pay Ms T 
a further £150 compensation  in addition to the £50 its already paid. 
Having looked at the all the evidence available, in particular the information Santander relied 
on to place the marker against Ms T, I dont think the banks evidence went far enough to 
make the listing legitimate. I say this because, Ive not seen anything to show Ms T made 
any of the applications or anything that connected her to them. She was simply sharing an 
address with others and was able to explain this to the bank when she complained about the 
marker. Had Santander asked Ms T some questions around her circumstances at the time, I 
think she wouldve provided the bank with this information and its likely that Santander 
wouldnt have then gone ahead and loaded the marker  so I dont think Santander treated 
Ms T fairly when it loaded an inconsistency SIRA marker against her name.
Ms T says £200 compensation isnt enough for the distress and inconvenience Santanders 
mistake has caused. Shes explained that she had to spend time visiting a several banks to 
try and open an account. And shes provided evidence from four different banks who closed 
her account shortly after shed opened them. Santander has confirmed that other banks 
wouldve been able to view the SIRA marker it had loaded against Ms T. And in the absence 
of any other evidence, Im satisfied that more likely than not this was the reason Ms Ts 
accounts were closed. Ive no doubt that Ms T had to spend time visiting banks, at a very difficult time in the UK due to the pandemic, which understandably, due to the situation, 
would have been very stressful. 
Im also satisfied that its likely Ms Ts mortgage offer was declined, after being approved, 
because of the SIRA marker. I say this because once, the marker had been removed, and 
Ms T showed the bank whod offered her the mortgage correspondence from Santander 
apologising for its mistake, the bank reinstated its mortgage offer. And she was able to 
purchase a home. So overall, Im satisfied that Ms T was caused distress and inconvenience 
as a result of Santander wrongly applying an inconsistency SIRA marker against Ms Ts 
name. 
I next turn to the banks decision to review Ms Ts accounts and request for proof of 
entitlement to the funds in her accounts. Santander has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to carry out such 
checks. The terms of Ms Ts accounts also permit Santander to review an account and ask 
for information. 
Ive looked at all the evidence provided, and Im satisfied that the bank was complying with 
its obligations when it reviewed Ms Ts accounts and asked her for information. So, whilst I 
appreciate Ms T was caused inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated Ms T unfairly 
when it reviewed her accounts.  
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ms Ts accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing M with banking facilities was reached legitimately.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander gave Ms T 30 days notice of its intention to close her accounts. Ive seen a copy 
of the letter Santander sent to Ms T dated 3 March 2020, letting her know her accounts 
would be closed. However, despite giving Ms T 30 days notice Santander blocked Ms Ts 
account on 3 March until it closed. So, whilst it was formally closed at the end of March 
2020, I believe that the accounts were effectively closed on 3 March 2020  since after that 
time Ms T couldnt use them. 
Having looked at the terms and conditions and relevant regulations relating to Ms Ts 
accounts, I agree with the investigator that the bank ought to have given Ms T proper notice 
of closure of her accounts. That means at least 60 days in this case. Had that happened, I 
can see that Ms T would have been put to less stress and inconvenience as she wouldve 
still had an operating bank account for at least two months. So, Im not satisfied that the 
bank has treated Ms T fairly when it closed her accounts. 
Ms T says that she is a victim of discrimination by Santander. And the bank only blocked and 
closed her accounts on the grounds of her nationality. While I appreciate this is her 
perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of 
law  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant 
law in relation to what Ms T has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The 
Act). 
The Act describes race as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person (A) 
discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Ms T has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that she was 
treated less favourably on account of her nationality. But after looking at all the evidence, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that Santanders 
behaviour was improper when it decided to review and close Ms Ts accounts.
In considering the appropriate award for distress and inconvenience Ive taken into account 
that the SIRA marker was in place for two weeks, and Ms T did manage to open at least two 
bank accounts whilst it was in place  despite having a number of accounts closed. Ive also 
kept in mind that Ms Ts mortgage did proceed, and that Santander should have given Ms T 
more notice about the closure of her accounts. And in light of all Ive said I agree that 
Santander should pay Ms T a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she has been caused her, i.e. a further £150 that it paid her before the matter was brought to 
our service. 
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, to put things 
right, Santander UK Plc should pay Ms T an additional £150 (in addition to the £50 already 
paid) for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman