DRN-2939198
Complaint
Mr B has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly increased 
his overdraft limit and provided him with a loan in 2019. He says that RBS ought to have 
realised he was a gambler and thats what he would be using the funds advanced for.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 8 July 2021
RBS increased Mr Bs overdraft limit from £1,500.00 to £9,000.00 in April 2019. RBS also 
provided Mr B with a loan for £24,000.00 in April 2019. The loan had an APR of 3.8% and 
was to be repaid in 36 instalments of £706.13.
In 2019, Mr B complained that RBS irresponsibly lent to him. RBS didnt think that it had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B remained dissatisfied and 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think that RBS had done 
anything wrong in relation to the overdraft. But she didnt think the loan should have been 
provided to Mr B. So she partially upheld the complaint. RBS didnt agree with our 
investigator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.
On 8 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Bs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
I then went on to explain that RBS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is RBS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr B would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing 
any credit to him. I referred to our website which sets out what we typically think about when 
deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable 
for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and 
what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I set out that RBS appeared to have placed significant weight on Mr Bs account conduct in 
the period leading up to the overdraft limit increase and his loan application. It said it agreed 
to these applications based on Mr Bs account history and after Mr B provided details of his 
monthly income of £1,600.00. It says this showed Mr B would be able to comfortably to 
support the overdraft limit increase and monthly loan payments. And, in these 
circumstances, it was reasonable to lend to him. 
I thought about what Mr B and RBS had said and the first thing I noted was that Mr B was 
granted a substantial amount of additional credit in a very short period of time. And there 
was an argument for saying that this in itself was concerning, although I did not think that 
this on its own was enough for me to say that the applications should have been declined.
That said, I was also concerned about an emerging pattern of Mr B using his overdraft to 
gamble in the 12-month period RBS appeared to have focused its analysis of Mr Bs account 
conduct on. And I thought that the period leading up to Mr Bs overdraft limit increase to 
£9,000.00 in April 2019 made it evident that this emerging pattern had developed into a 
reason not to lend.
A cursory look at Mr Bs statements showed that hed been gambling significant sums in the 
lead up to the overdraft increase. I accepted that these payments were made via a third 
party payment processor, but the name of a well-known betting company appeared on       
Mr Bs statements. Mr B had gambled in excess of his declared monthly income and this had 
taken him close to and marginally over his existing credit limit in the month proceeding the 
increase. In these circumstances, I thought that it ought to have been apparent that there 
was a significant risk Mr B might have struggled to sustainably repay what he already owed. 
And he was therefore unlikely to have been able to repay any additional credit without undue 
difficulty or borrowing further. 
Bearing this in mind, I was minded to find that RBS shouldnt have increased Mr Bs 
overdraft limit April 2019 and also suspended the use of his facility. And considering the 
monthly loan payments of just under £800 also took up just under half his monthly income, I 
found that RBS shouldnt have provided Mr B with a loan in April 2019 either. It was my 
conclusion that RBS decision to provide a substantial amount of additional credit in these 
circumstances meant that it increased Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that it ought to have 
realised was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
As this was the case, I thought that RBS treated Mr B unfairly both when it increased his 
overdraft limit to £9,000.00 and when it provided him with a loan for £24,000.00. Mr B was 
being expected to pay additional interest and charges on credit he shouldnt have been 
provided with in the first place. So I found that he lost out because of what RBS did wrong 
and that it needed to put things right.
Mr Bs response to my provisional decision   
Mr B responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and his acceptance of it. He 
confirmed that hes now entered into a debt management plan and this strengthens his 
argument he should never have been provided with this credit.
RBS response to my provisional decision
RBS responded querying whether we had received its previous correspondence rejecting 
our investigators assessment. After it was confirmed that we had and that this had been 
considered in my provisional decision. It provided nothing further for me to think about.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id also like to confirm that Id read and considered RBS response to our investigators 
assessment prior to reaching my provisional decision. As neither party has challenged them, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision of 8 July 2021. And as this is the case, I remain satisfied that RBS 
acted unfairly towards Mr B when it increased his overdraft limit and provided him with a loan 
in April 2019.
RBS treated Mr B unfairly and he is being expected to pay additional interest, fees and 
charges on credit he should never have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied 
that Mr B lost out because of what RBS did wrong and it should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what RBS needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of Mr Bs complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Overdraft
Rework Mr Bs overdraft balance to ensure that from April 2019 onwards all 
interest, fees and charges are removed to reflect the fact that Mr Bs account 
conduct (which RBS says was considered as part of the successful applications 
for credit) warranted RBS taking corrective action in relation to the overdraft; and
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should backdate this to April 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
Loan
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Bs loan from the outset. 
The payments Mr B has made should be deducted from the £24,000.00 he was 
originally lent. RBS should treat any payments made if and when the £24,000.00 
has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Mr B along with 8% simple interest ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan should no outstanding balance remain. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Should an outstanding balance (or balances) remain on the accounts in question after all 
adjustments have been made RBS can use any compensation due to Mr B to reduce what he owes. Id also remind RBS of its obligation to exercise forbearance (and also respect any 
arrangements to pay bearing in mind Mr Bs debt management plan) should outstanding 
balances remain after all adjustments have been made to Mr Bs accounts and its the case 
that he is experiencing financial difficulty.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman