DRN-2127603
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined her claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs S had buildings and contents home insurance with QIC. She reported that the roof of 
her house and outbuilding had been damaged in a storm, leading to water ingress. QIC 
carried out an inspection and accepted the contents claim for water damage, but it declined 
the buildings claim. The surveyor reported that the outbuilding roof damage was due to wear 
and tear and there was no visible damage to the house roof.
Mrs S complained to QIC. She said the surveyor had looked at the wrong roof and she didnt 
agree that the outbuilding roof damage was wear and tear.
QIC looked into her complaint but, because the photographs didnt show any roof damage, it 
repeated its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ss complaint. He agreed that the surveyor had looked at the 
wrong roof and he didnt think QIC had provided enough evidence of wear and tear rather 
than storm damage.
QIC didnt agree. After looking at further photographs provided by Mrs S, it accepted that 
there was damage to the house roof. But it maintained its view that the damage was due to 
wear and tear.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
QIC doesnt dispute that there was a storm  it was a well-publicised, named storm. So, Ive 
looked at Mrs Ss policy to determine the cover provided for storm damage. It states:
Storm
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above. 
However, QIC relied upon its expert surveyors report and an exclusion clause to decline her 
claim:
We don't cover:
anything that happens gradually.
General Exclusions
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of wear and tear
The surveyor reported:
The external damage is firstly to the main roof at the front. The insured states this 
has been damaged but we viewed the full roof and no damage was seen. All the 
slates are in place and nothing has been moved or lifted. The other two sides of the 
roof were inspected and no damage found. The brickwork to the front elevation is in 
poor condition and the pointing is in a very poor state. This could be allowing water 
in. The outbuilding in the back garden has slates that have slipped on the roof. This 
[is] due to age and not an insured event. Some of the roof has been renewed 
recently but this section is older.
For me to decide whether it was fair for QIC to decline Mrs Ss claim, I must consider 
whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm and, if so, whether 
its likely that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
The first point to consider is QICs report that there wasnt any damage to the main roof. Mrs 
S provided photos of her roof which clearly show damage. QIC has since seen those photos 
and agrees that there is evidence of damage to the main tiled roof as well as the outbuilding 
roof. Its not clear why the surveyor reported that there was no damage, despite having 
viewed the full main roof, but Im satisfied that there is evidence of broken and lifted tiles. 
The house and outbuilding are in an exposed location and the significant wind speeds 
around that time couldve lifted roof tiles. I think its possible that a storm couldve caused 
that type of damage.
As Im satisfied that the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm, Ive 
thought about whether it is likely to have been the main cause of the damage. 
QICs surveyor said that the damage to the outbuilding roof was largely caused by wear and 
tear and it was in a generally poor state of repair. On reconsidering the main roof, after 
seeing Mrs Ss photos, QIC still felt that the damage happened gradually and declined the 
claim. 
As mentioned above, the surveyor reported, The outbuilding in the back garden has slates 
that have slipped on the roof. This [is] due to age and not an insured event. Some of the roof 
has been renewed recently but this section is older. Having looked at the photos I agree 
with this statement. But the section of roof the surveyor referred to as damaged due to being 
older is not Mrs Ss roof  its that of her neighbour. Mrs Ss roof is the recently renewed one 
and there is a marked difference between the condition of her roof and the older roof of her 
neighbours property. This Mrs Ss claim that she had maintained her roof, so Im inclined to 
place more weight on Mrs Ss evidence than on that provided by QICs surveyor. On 
balance, I think its more likely than not that the damage was caused mainly by the storm 
rather than wear and tear.
After reviewing Mrs Ss photos, QIC agreed that her roof was damaged but said that nail 
fatigue was more likely the main cause of damage. Ive thought carefully about its 
description of nail fatigue (slipped tiles) and I can see why it thinks that could be a cause of 
the damage. QIC also said storm damage would cause tiles to be removed or broken. But 
Mrs S reported broken pieces of tile in her loft space, coming through the felt where a branch 
had pierced it, and the photos show broken tiles as well as some slipped tiles. Given that the 
photos also show areas of the roof where tiles have been newly replaced, its clear that Mrs S maintained her roof. So, I think its more likely that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
Overall, I dont think QIC has provided enough evidence to show that a policy exclusion 
clause applies. There is clear evidence of damage, the main cause of which is likely to have 
been the storm. For that reason, I think QIC should settle the external damage claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that QIC Europe Ltd must:
settle Mrs Ss claim for storm damage to the roof of her house and outbuilding in line 
with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman