DRN-3534027
The complaint
Mr K complains about information provided by Tesco Personal Finance PLC when he called 
to talk about arrears on his loan.
 
What happened
Mr K had a loan with Tesco. In September 2021 Mr K called Tesco after receiving a letter 
concerning arrears on his loan. At the time, the arrears balance was around £1,000. 
Mr K told Tescos call handler he was only working part time and that his income had been 
affected by the pandemic. Mr K also said hed discussed his circumstances with Step 
Change but found it too difficult to understand and sort out. Mr K gave details of his 
circumstances and explained he was only working part time. 
Mr K told the call handler he was surprised at the level of arrears. The call handler explained 
Mr K needed to make a payment to clear the arrears or the loan would be terminated. Mr K 
asked for the outstanding balance and was told that, if his loan terminated, hed owe around 
£13,000 - the original loan amount. Mr K became increasingly upset during his call. 
The call handler referred Mr K back to Step Change and agreed to place the account on hold 
for 30 days. 
Mr K has told us that being advised Tesco would need him to repay a balance of over 
£13,000 if it closed his loan caused extreme levels of distress. Mr K has provided evidence 
that shows he suffers with significant mental health issues, going back some years. And as a 
result of the information given during the call, Mr K felt he had nowhere else to turn. Mr K 
went on to contact his estranged mother to ask for help and considered suicide.
A short time later, Mr Ks mother spoke with Tesco about his loan. The call handler asked Mr 
Ks mother about his financial situation and general circumstances. Mr Ks mother confirmed 
he was in arrears with utilities and priority bills and that the electricity had been cut off. Mr 
Ks mother also explained he was only working part time and had spent a significant amount 
of time in hospital due to his mental health problems. 
Mr Ks mother asked whether, in light of Mr Ks circumstances, Tesco could offer further 
support. The call handler explained that as the account was with collections the only 
assistance that could be offered was if the account was terminated. The call handler said 
that option was reliant on a lump sum being paid up front. 
The call handler provided some information to Mr Ks mother about how a default could 
impact his credit file. Mr Ks mother helped him clear around £1,000 of arrears for his loan 
and his September 2021 payment was collected. 
Mr K went on to complain to Tesco and has explained the issues raised caused serious 
mental health problems that led to him being hospitalised. Tesco upheld Mr Ks complaint 
and refunded around £1,300 of payments and paid him £125 for the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ks complaint and upheld it. They thought 
Tescos call with Mr K in September 2021 had a serious impact on his mental health. The 
investigator asked Tesco to back date the default and increase the compensation offered to 
£2,500. Tesco asked to appeal and said it felt the settlement recommended was excessive. 
Tesco accepted it had given Mr K some incorrect information but says it quickly corrected its 
position. As Tesco asked to appeal, Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Tescos view that the level of compensation recommended in Mr Ks case is 
very high. And I understand Tesco sought to try and correct the information provided by its 
call handler. Whilst I agree the level of compensation recommended is high, I think that 
reflects the investigators view that Tescos error had a very serious impact on Mr K. Ive 
independently looked at the available information. I agree with the investigator that the level 
of compensation should be increased. 
All parties agree the call in September 2021 was poorly handled and gave Mr K incorrect 
information. The call handler said a balance of over £13,000 would become payable if the 
loan was terminated. And the call handler made the consequences of being unable to afford 
repayments sound very serious indeed. In my view, it was very clear during the call that Mr K 
was extremely upset and potentially vulnerable. Mr K appeared close to tears throughout 
and explained he was unable to understand information about his finances, including advice 
provided by Step Change. I thought the call handlers tone was cold and showed a lack of 
empathy. And I think the call handler missed opportunities to offer help or clearly explain the 
consequences of Mr Ks loan being terminated. Im satisfied the incorrect information and 
way his call was handled caused Mr K a significant level of distress and inconvenience. 
We consider complaints on an individual basis and focus our awards on how a problem has 
impacted the consumer. Ive focused on how Mr K was affected by his call with Tesco. And 
whilst I understand Tescos view that the correct position was explained without undue 
delay, I think the consequences of the way Mr Ks call was handled were severe. Mr Ks 
social worker has explained that, as a result of financial stress, Mr K had stopped taking his 
medication as it was affecting his ability to work and ear money. Theyve also advised Mr K 
was admitted for psychiatric care in November 2021 for around a month as a result of stress 
caused by his finances. Theyve explained that Mr Ks paranoia increased and he was  later 
admitted. 
Mr K has also told us about how he was affected. Mr K says he was suicidal and had to seek 
help. Mr K has given us details of a particularly distressing occasion when he was talked 
down by medical staff. Mr K has also explained he and his mother were estranged but as he 
felt there was no other option, he contacted her for help. I can appreciate Mr K found asking 
estranged family for help was particularly difficult at an already stressful time. 
Mr K has told us he remained very concerned that failure to maintain payments going 
forward would have very serious consequences. And I think its reasonable to say that 
mental health problems, like paranoia, can make a situation seem even more serious 
regardless of whether an apology has been made. So whilst I appreciate Tescos view that 
later call handlers gave the correct information, Im satisfied Mr K believed what he was told 
during his first call for a significant period and that it had a serious impact on his mental 
health. I also think its fair to say that later calls also missed opportunities to help Mr K. When Mr Ks 
mother spoke with Tesco she gave it some important information about his circumstances. 
Mr Ks mother explained he was in arrears with priority bills and utilities and had no 
electricity when she arrived. She also advised Mr K had spent a significant amount of time in 
hospital and that his circumstances were very difficult. The call handler ultimately said there 
was little Tesco could do and talked about making a lump sum payment. Ultimately, they 
took the step of referring Mr Ks mother back to Step Change. But Mr K had already 
explained he was unable to work with Step Change or understand the information already 
provided. 
That, in turn, led Mr Ks mother to pay arrears on his behalf and contractual payments to 
begin again. But it ought to have been clear to Tesco in September 2021 that Mr K was not 
in a position to clear arrears or begin his monthly payments again. Thats reflected in 
Tescos decision to refund those payments.  
Tescos response to the investigator pointed out that Mr K had later said he was able to 
afford his monthly payment and didnt want details of his vulnerabilities recorded on its 
system. Whilst that may be the case, we now know Mr K wasnt in a position to make 
payments. And whilst Mr K may not have wanted his medical information recorded by Tesco, 
weve received confirmation from professionals working with Mr K that he was vulnerable 
due to mental health difficulties. 
I appreciate the call handler also gave information about how defaults affect a credit file. But 
I think Tesco shouldve sought to provide a more specialist level of care for Mr K as it 
shouldve seen he was a vulnerable customer. Referring Mr K back to Step Change had the 
effect of delaying the account closure along with the default being recorded. So Im going to 
tell Tesco to back date its default to September 2021.  
Given the seriousness of the impact on Mr K, Im upholding his complaint and increasing the 
award to £2,500. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the circumstances of Mr Ks 
complaint and the substantial level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay 
him a total of £2,500 (less any compensation already paid) and backdate its default to 
September 2021.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman