DRN-2310572
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited incorrectly paid out the proceeds of
a sale of an investment trust within her stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
Ive previously issued two provisional decisions in respect of Mrs Fs complaint. In the 
second, of 9 October 2020, I summarised the background to the complaint and what had 
been said in response to my first provisional decision.
To recap, in August 2019 Mrs F's husband, Mr F, attempted to perform an on-line 
'switch', on her behalf. He was intending to switch from the New Indian Investment 
Trust (NIIT) to the Emerging Markets Investment Trust (EMIT). Mrs F's ISA held a 
cash balance of just over
£5,000 at this point.
Mr F says he first attempted to carry out the transaction using the dedicated 'switch' 
facility, but this didn't work. So, he made a sale of the NIIT, generating just under 
£5,000, and then tried to make a purchase of the EMIT for the sum of £6,250. When 
this wasn't possible, he reduced the amount and purchased just under £5,000 of the 
EMIT.
Mrs F then received a contract note for the sale and it became apparent that the 
proceeds of the NIIT sale hadn't been retained on the account to pay for the 
purchase of EMIT as she'd assumed they would be. Instead, they'd been paid out 
from the ISA into Mrs F's bank account, and in the process had lost their ISA tax 
protection. This prompted phone calls to Aberdeen where the matter was discussed, 
culminating in a complaint being made.
Aberdeen didn't uphold the complaint. It explained that because a 'switch' hadn't 
been made (in the sense that its switch facility hadn't been used) its system had 
treated the sale of NIIT as a withdrawal, in line with its terms and conditions. This 
was why the proceeds had been paid to Mrs F's bank account.
In my first provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. I said, in brief;
The switch issue was something of a red herring as it was not actually a 
switch that Mrs F was trying to achieve.
But, in any event, as a result of the switch not working, a sale was 
actioned, which prompted the paying out of the proceeds.
This came as a surprise to Mrs F as its generally more common for sale 
proceeds to held on the account in a stocks and shares ISA rather than 
automatically paid out.
I thought the terms and conditions of the ISA werent clear on the point 
and created ambiguity by conflating sales with withdrawals.
This functionality shouldve been made clearer.
In my provisional decision I asked Mrs F to provide further details on what loss she 
felt shed incurred. In response, she explained that in respect of any loss relating to 
money being removed from the ISA, the matter hadnt greatly impacted her plans for 
investment over future years. But she nevertheless felt that this shouldnt have been 
affected by Aberdeens actions. Mrs F further thought that the matter warranted 
compensation of between £500 and
£1,000.
Aberdeen didnt accept my provisional decision and said, in brief:
The switch issue wasnt really a red herring, as it was the failure to be able 
to make the switch that led to the sale being made.
This was done by Mr F without an understanding of the process and it 
wouldve been prudent to check why the switch hadnt worked before 
proceeding.
Mrs F had previously carried out a successful switch on her account.
It didnt agree that the process of paying out the proceeds of a sale as a 
withdrawal was particularly unusual and it felt that, in any event, the terms 
were clear on this point.
It was only after raising a complaint that Mrs F suggested that the 
terms werent clear.
My provisional findings unduly penalised Aberdeen for any confusion Mr 
or Mrs F may have experienced and their actions on-line.
Following these responses to my first provisional decision I requested some additional 
information from both parties, including recordings of the telephone calls that Mr F had made 
to Aberdeen. In light of these, I changed my view of the complaint and issued a second 
provisional decision, in which I said: 
I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs F as I note, among 
other things, her concerns with the amount of time it has taken to get to this point. 
But Id like to assure her this is, at least in part, the result of a desire on my part to 
ensure I have fully understood the circumstances and issues. While this may, on the 
face of it, have been a relatively straightforward matter, I must nevertheless be fair to 
both parties in my consideration of it.
Turning to my provisional findings, I said, in short, that I felt the specific functionality 
of Aberdeens ISA was not communicated as clearly as it couldve been. And, in 
many respects, I remain of that view. I still think that having a sale equate by default 
to a withdrawal within an ISA environment is unusual (although perfectly acceptable 
 as theres
 no regulation that prevents Aberdeen operating the ISA in this way). And I still dont 
think the terms of ISA are particularly clear on that point, especially as I feel it is a 
quite unusual functionality.
But, despite that, having looked closely again at the circumstances of the complaint 
and reconsidered the events  and also having heard the calls made by Mr F to 
Aberdeen  upon reflection, I dont think I can reasonably link any ambiguity in the 
terms with Mr Fs decision to place a sale on Mrs Fs account, having been unable to 
make the desired switch.If I felt that Mr F had placed the sale based solely on having read the terms, or if he 
or Mrs F had been misinformed having asked for guidance from a member of 
Aberdeens staff, then I think I would still feel able to uphold the complaint. But 
having reviewed the evidence and further submissions Im satisfied that what in fact 
happened was that Mr F simply assumed how a sale would work  an assumption 
that was unfortunately incorrect.
In saying that, Id stress that, in line with my comments concerning how stocks and 
shares ISAs commonly operate, I think this assumption was a perfectly reasonable 
one for Mr and Mrs F to make. And I can quite understand why they were surprised 
when they discovered that a withdrawal had been made as a result of the sale.
But ultimately, I dont think the event about which Mrs F has complained  Aberdeen 
paying out the proceeds of the sale from her ISA  occurred directly as a result of an 
error on the part of Aberdeen. Rather, I think it stemmed from a misunderstanding, 
but not one that I can conclude was the result of a specific act or failure by Aberdeen.
Had Mr or Mrs F contacted Aberdeen when the attempted switch failed, which in 
fairness its probably reasonable to expect them to have done, Ive no reason to think 
they wouldnt have been correctly advised on how to proceed in order to achieve the 
desired outcome. Having listened to the calls made after the event it appears that 
both members of staff were clear on how the ISA operated. Any confusion in those 
calls was a result of Mr F being unaware that a sale equated to a withdrawal, so the 
conversation being at cross purposes. Again, Id stress that I understand why Mr F 
wasnt aware, but as noted, I dont think that was the fault of Aberdeen.
In response to my second provisional decision, Aberdeen confirmed it had nothing further to 
add other than to acknowledge the general strength of feeling and say that it felt all parties 
had examined the matter in considerable detail. And it believed my revised view, and the 
detail Id provided, reflected this. So, it felt the current position was the correct one.
Mrs F responded to say that despite having previously indicated her unwillingness to provide 
further input, my change of view had prompted her to so. She said, in brief:
Aberdeen was selling a flawed product.
The terms and conditions didnt make clear that a sale equated to a withdrawal and 
were misleading on this point. 
No explanation had been provided as to how this is reasonable.
Aberdeen couldnt rely upon its terms in some circumstances and not others.
Her future investment plans were not relevant to the issue of the terms
Aberdeens assertion that the terms were clear was nonsense and it couldnt show 
where it said that a sale was the same as a withdrawal.
The event of Mr F placing the sale stemmed from a lack of correlation between the 
terms and the system underlying the ISA. 
She remained of the view that compensation should be paid, with an increased 
amount to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I remain of the view I reached in my second provisional decision. While, as 
noted previously, I understand Mrs Fs frustration, I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Id stress once again that I think the functionality of Aberdeens ISA  such that a sale 
equates to a withdrawal  is a relatively unusual one. And considering this, I feel the terms 
relating to it are somewhat ambiguous. 
But, as I explained in my second provisional decision, any issue about how Aberdeen chose 
 legitimately  to operate its ISA and/or to communicate how it operated was not in my view 
the cause of Mrs Fs unintended withdrawal. That was the result of a misunderstanding, 
albeit a reasonable misunderstanding. It didnt  to use Mrs Fs words  stem from a lack of 
correlation between the terms and the way the ISA operated. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman