DRN-3171207
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
made on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr D, a named driver on Mrs Ds policy, was involved in an incident with another driver. AA 
Underwriting accepted liability and settled the other drivers claim without getting Mr Ds 
version of events. Mrs D found out she had a fault claim at renewal. AA Underwriting agreed 
that it should have asked for Mr Ds version first, and it withdrew its acceptance of liability. 
The other drivers insurer declined to return the settlement, and AA Underwriting engaged a 
solicitor to make a recovery. Mrs D was unhappy that her premium was higher at renewal.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA 
Underwriting had accepted liability without reasonably assessing the claim by asking Mr D 
for his version of events. He thought this had led to avoidable delays in the claim. He also 
thought there had been a lack of communication with Mrs D and that she had been caused 
upset by finding, seven months later, that the claim had been settled as fault. He 
recommended that AA Underwriting should pay Mrs D £150 for the trouble and upset it had 
caused. 
AA Underwriting replied that it had tried to contact Mrs D by letter and phone without 
success. It said Mr Ds version of events wouldnt have changed the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA Underwriting said it was informed about the incident by the other drivers representatives. 
The circumstances described were that the cars collided when Mr D was driving out of his 
driveway and collided with the oncoming car. AA Underwriting said the circumstances would 
make Mr D at fault. But Mr D said his car was stationary at the time and the fault was with 
the other driver.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs D the same as someone else in her position. 
AA Underwriting is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs D to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs D has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. So Ive looked at how AA Underwriting 
investigated the claim. 
AA Underwriting received allegations from the other driver. It said it called Mrs D without 
success. Mrs D, however, said that she called AA Underwriting to notify it of the accident, 
though she cant recall when. No record of this call was in AA Underwritings file notes. 
AA Underwriting said it also wrote to Mrs D and didnt receive a reply. Mrs D said she called 
AA Underwriting again when she received its first letter and she outlined what had 
happened, but it didnt ask to speak to her husband. AA Underwriting seems to have had a 
record of this call, but the report wasnt passed to the correct department. 
Mrs D said she heard nothing further and assumed that, as the damage was minor, the 
matter was closed. However, AA Underwriting had accepted liability and settled the other 
drivers claim. AA Underwriting said it emailed Mrs D to tell her liability had been accepted 
and a fault claim had been recorded. But Mrs D didnt recall receiving this email. 
Mrs D learned at renewal that liability had been accepted and a fault recorded. AA 
Underwriting told her that it had accepted liability in error and then asked Mr D for details of 
what had happened. It said that as the accounts conflicted, the best possible outcome was 
likely to be a 50/50 split liability settlement. 
The other drivers representatives wouldnt accept liability or refund costs. So AA 
Underwriting instructed solicitors to recover its costs from the other side. But Mrs D wouldnt 
agree to be party to this as AA Underwriting didnt explain what it was doing, and she 
thought it had caused the problem. 
When Mrs D complained, AA Underwriting accepted that there had been poor 
communication and a lack of call-backs. It said that an agent would call Mrs D to explain 
what was happening. A month later, Mrs D hadnt received the promised call. 
I can see that AA Underwriting has accepted that its handling of the claim has been poor: 
It accepts that it hadnt followed its own process and it made the initial liability decision 
without sufficiently investigating the claim by obtaining Mr Ds version of events. AA 
Underwriting said this was unlikely to change the outcome, but I can see that it was 
sufficiently compelling for AA Underwriting to decide to pursue the other side to reclaim 
its costs. And I think the delay in obtaining Mr Ds version of events may have affected 
the amount of detail he recalled and so possibly affected the outcome. 
AA Underwriting accepts that its communication with Mrs D has been poor. It didnt have 
records of the initial calls she made. It didnt provide promised call-backs. It said it sent 
an email explaining that it had accepted liability. But Im persuaded that Mrs D didnt 
receive this as I think that if Mrs D had received this she would have acted on it at the 
time.
AA Underwriting then instructed solicitors but didnt engage Mrs D in this process. It then 
failed to provide a promised explanation of its rationale. So Im not surprised that Mrs D 
felt uncomfortable in providing her co-operation. But this would be needed if the matter 
were to be taken further legally. 
Because of the poor initial investigation and subsequent attempts at recovery, this matter 
is still unresolved for Mrs D. So I think AA Underwriting has caused avoidable delays in 
settling the claim. 
When a business makes mistakes, as AA Underwriting accepts it has done here, we expect 
it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
As Ive said above, AA Underwriting is entitled to settle the claim as it sees fit following a 
reasonable investigation and consideration of the evidence. So I accept that, due to the lack 
of independent witnesses or other evidence, the outcome may not change for Mrs D. From 
what I can see, liability is still in dispute. But I think Mrs D has been caused considerable stress and upset by AA Underwritings 
handling of her claim. She had the shock of finding that a fault was on her record when she 
thought the matter was closed. She had to chase AA Underwriting for updates. She has 
been caused frustration from not receiving promised call-backs. 
Our Investigator recommended that AA Underwriting should pay Mrs D £150 compensation 
for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for 
the impact on Mrs D.
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs D £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman