DRN-2799328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that TSB Bank plc sent statements for their bank account to a 
third party by mistake.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B requsted copies of their bank statements from TSB, but the statements 
requested werent received by them at their address. A short time later, Mr and Mrs B were 
contacted by an unknown third party who advised that they had received Mr and Mrs Bs 
bank statements and that they would be returning them to branch. Mr and Mrs B werent 
happy that TSB had sent their statements to an unknown person, so they made a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. They acknowledged that an error had been made 
and registered a data breach. TSB also apologised to Mr and Mrs B and made a payment of 
£250 to Mr and Mrs B to compensate them for any upset and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B didnt feel that TSBs response went far enough and felt that TSB should 
increase their offer of compensation to £1,500. So, they referred their complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that TSBs response, including 
their admission of error and the payment of £250 compensation, represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs B would be dismayed to discover that they bank 
statements had been sent to the wrong address by TSB.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that the TSB would 
acknowledge the error and take any necessary corrective steps to mitigate the possibility of 
such an error occurring again. This service would also expect TSB to have apologised to Mr 
and Mrs B and to have made an offer of compensation commensurate with any trouble and 
upset that they may have incurred.
I think that TSB have done that here. They investigated how Mr and Mrs Bs statements had 
come to be posted to a wrong address and concluded that it was as a result of human error 
rather than a systemic issue. TSB have also explained that feedback has been provided to 
the TSB team responsible for this error, and that a data breach has been recorded as a 
result of this incident.
TSB also upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and issued an apology and made a payment to 
Mr and Mrs B of £250 to compensate them for any distress and inconvenience they had 
incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer deemed fair and reasonable by one 
party not being considered as such by another, and Im aware that Mr and Mrs B feel that 
the amount of compensation paid to them by TSB should be considerably higher. But the 
£250 that TSB have paid here feels fair to me, and I must note that it is commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
All of which means this that Im satisfied that TSBs response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, 
including the payment of £250 compensation, does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs B were wanting here, but it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking TSB to take any further action at 
this time. I hope that Mr and Mrs B can understand, given what Ive explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman