DRN-3780425
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that a staff member at Goldman Sachs International Bank would not share 
their full name with him when he called Goldman Sachs helpline to discuss his account. 
To resolve things Mr I is seeking financial compensation for the poor service he experienced 
and the stress and upset this caused him. 
What happened
Mr I held a branded savings account which was provided by Goldman Sachs. 
On 5 July 2022 Mr I called Goldman Sachs Customer Care Team to discuss the account.  
Goldman Sachs have provided a transcript of the call which was less than a minute long. 
At the start of the call the Goldman Sachs staff member said: Good Evening, youre through 
to (X), how can I help today? 
Mr I checked that the individual had said (X) and asked for the staff member to spell their 
name, to which they provided the two letters required to spell their name.  
Mr I then queried whether this was a nickname and asked who he was speaking to and for 
the individual to share their name with him. The staff member said Its (X), for now. Mr I 
said, Okay, so thats your nickname right? 
After the staff member said, yes, Mr I then said, Okay whats your name? 
The individual queried with Mr I why they wanted to know this and Mr I said it was just for his 
records, to which the individual said that (X) would suffice for Mr Is records. 
Mr I disagreed and said he needed to know the name of the person he was speaking to and 
the individual said he was not prepared to provide any more detail. The call then ended. 
Mr I called back later the same day and spoke with another staff member and was able to 
complete his business with Goldman Sachs. At the same time he raised his complaint about 
the earlier call. 
Goldman Sachs did not uphold Mr Is complaint. They explained it was not part of their 
standard procedure for a staff member to provide their full name or personal information if 
they chose not to. But they said they had spoken with the staff member concerned to 
reassure them that if they felt comfortable doing so, they could share their full name if asked. 
As Mr I remained unhappy, he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the matter, but did not uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Our investigator noted it was not Goldman Sachss procedure for staff to be required to 
share their full name or personal information if they didnt wish to, and it was for Goldman 
Sachs to decide their policies on how their staff greeted customers. Our investigator said the 
nickname provided by the staff member was enough for them to be identified if later 
required, and there was no need for Mr I to know the staff members full name in order to 
carry out his business with Goldman Sachs. The investigator added it was reasonable for 
Goldman Sachss staff to protect their personal information if they wished to. 
Mr I disagreed. He said he had not asked for the individuals full name, only their first name. 
And he expressed concern that the staff member would not record the conversation in his 
notes, so anyone later looking at his account would not be aware of it. Mr I also suggested 
the staff member had been rude and that they hadnt confirmed that the two letters were a 
nickname. Mr I said he had worked in call centres himself and had never given random 
letters to customers, and would at least have said it was a nickname, initials or a first or last 
name. 
The investigator responded to Mr I and noted that the staff member had provided a contact 
name, which together with Mr Is phone number and the time of the call would have been 
enough to trace the call and so Mr I hadnt been prevented from being able to record or 
identify the call if needed. The investigator further explained that someones name is 
personal information so it was up to the staff member to disclose as much as they were 
comfortable with  and none of this impacted the running of Mr Is account. The investigator 
also set out that it was not for this service to say how a business should run. 
Mr I continued to disagree. He didnt think enough consideration had been given to the two 
letters the staff member had given, and said it amounted to appalling customer service. 
Whereas he had been asked for all of his details. Mr I said that it would be fair for a 
customer to at least know someones first name for their records. 
As our investigator could not resolve the matter, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Mr Is complaint should not be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons as those reached by our investigator. 
I understand Mr I feels strongly about this and has expressed concern over the service he 
received and that he would wish for Goldman Sachs to change how they do things. 
It may help if I first explain the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to look at 
individual complaints and to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
complaint. This means it is not for this service to say how a business should run their 
processes, systems or controls. So I can not interfere with how Goldman Sachs chooses to 
greet their customers on the phone. 
What I can consider is whether Mr I has been treated fairly and reasonably given whats 
happened. And on balance, I think that he has. 
As our investigator has already explained, Goldman Sachs does not require their staff to 
share personal information unless they feel comfortable to do so. The staff member shared 
their nickname with Mr I  and they confirmed it was their nickname when Mr I asked. So I 
disagree with Mr Is submissions that they did not confirm the name was a nickname. The 
name of the individual also has no bearing on how Mr Is account is run. Mr I said he wished to know the individuals name for his records and he does not feel that a 
nickname or two letters was sufficient. However, I disagree. I am mindful that some peoples 
names can be made up of two letters, and the individual did provide Mr I with a name that he 
could note down to correspond with the call. Mr I would also have had the time of the call, 
the number he called from and of course his own account details to help Goldman Sachs 
identify the call if needed at a later date  as demonstrated by locating the call for this 
complaint.  
Mr I says he had to provide his details so feels that the individual should have provided him 
with more detail. I disagree. The level of detail obtained from Mr I would have been to ensure 
he was who he said he was in order to discuss details about his account, so it was important 
to establish who Mr I was. In contrast, the Goldman Sachs staff member was there to help 
Mr I complete actions on his account, so their personal details were not relevant to Mr Is 
account. 
Ive not listened to the call, and I dont believe that is needed. Goldman Sachs provided a 
transcript of the call which was less than a minute long, and in the exchange Ive reviewed 
there is nothing which suggests to me that the staff member was rude to Mr I. It seems Mr I 
ended the call. I understand Mr I may believe the individual was rude because they did not 
share more details about their name, but for the reasons Ive already explained above, I 
dont think they needed to  the individuals name was their personal information, so I dont 
find it unreasonable that Goldman Sachs allowed their staff to share what they felt 
comfortable with. 
Mr I is seeking compensation for this matter, but I dont think it would be fair to say that any 
is payable here. I dont think the Goldman Sachs staff member did anything wrong. Mr I was 
given a name as a record, and not having more details of the individuals name would not 
have prevented them from being able to deal with Mr Is account, or stopped Mr I from being 
able to make a note of the call for his records or locate the call at a later time. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Is complaint is not upheld. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my 
decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman