DRN-3043739
The complaint
Ms P complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt settled a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P held a single trip travel insurance policy which covered a trip between 17 and 21 May 
2020. The insurer was Great Lakes. Ms P planned to travel with a family member, but the 
policy only covered her.
Ms P cancelled the trip in May 2020 because the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all 
but essential international travel. The provider of the accommodation shed booked and paid 
for had offered Ms P the option to rebook until the end of March 2021, but she didnt want to 
accept this. As she hadnt got a refund from the provider, Ms P made a claim for the 
accommodation costs to her insurer.
Great Lakes said that the policy only covered non-refundable expenses, and it didnt cover 
costs that can be recovered elsewhere. It said that as Ms P had been offered an option to 
rebook the accommodation, there was no financial loss to consider under the policy. But as 
a gesture of goodwill, Great Lakes offered to settle the claim by paying 50% of Ms Ps 
portion of the costs (after deducting what Great Lakes considered to be the family members 
portion).
Ms P doesnt agree that an option to rebook means her costs are non-refundable. She 
says that the policy doesnt state that an offer to rebook will be considered as an equivalent 
to a refund.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He asked Ms P to check if the 
accommodation provider would extend the option to rebook. It did and said Ms P could stay 
as per the original reservation, arriving before 31 March 2022. Our investigator didnt think 
the terms of this offer were so restrictive that it would be unfair or unreasonable for Ms P to 
accept it. So, he didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong in declining the claim 
because Ms P had been able to recover the costs from another source.
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators findings. She referred to regulatory guidance which 
says that while a provider can offer an option to rebook, a refund should still be an option. As 
no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms Ps complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ps policy say Great Lakes will, in certain circumstances, 
pay for unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which you 
have paid or are contracted to pay[] in the event that a holiday is cancelled.
The general exclusions of Ms Ps policy say that your policy does not cover you for any 
claim directly or indirectly resulting from any of the following: [] 20. Any amount 
recoverable from any other source.
So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Ms Ps policy 
doesnt cover costs that can be recovered from elsewhere.
Ms P was first offered an option to rebook the accommodation until end of March 2021, and 
this has since been extended until end of March 2022. The provider has said Ms P can stay 
as per the original reservation.
Generally, unless the terms of the option to rebook are unreasonably restrictive and/or the 
policyholder has exceptional circumstances, Id consider an option to rebook to mean the 
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
Having considered everything  including the location of the accommodation  I dont think 
the terms of the offer to rebook are so restrictive, or that there are exceptional 
circumstances, that it would be unfair or unreasonable for Ms P to accept the offer. That 
means that I dont think its unreasonable for Great Lakes to consider that the option to 
rebook means her costs are recoverable elsewhere, and therefore not something covered by 
the policy.
It is still open to Ms P to pursue the accommodation provider for a refund, if she doesnt think 
the provider has followed the regulatory guidance in not offering this.
Finally, Great Lakes has made an offer to pay £160.52 to settle the complaint. Ms P should 
contact Great Lakes directly if she now wishes to accept this. I make no finding on this offer, 
including how Great Lakes has calculated it, as this offer was made as a gesture of goodwill.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. I dont think Great Lakes 
needs to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman