DRN-3224070
The complaint
  
Mr B complains how Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) handled a claim on his 
home emergency policy. 
Any references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
 Mr Bs boiler developed a fault. He contacted RSA, who sent out several engineers trying to 
fix the issue, which resulted in a delay of the repair of Mr Bs boiler and left him without 
heating and hot water, for around three weeks. Mr B explained that during this time he 
experienced increased energy costs, had to buy temporary heaters to heat his home and 
was unhappy by the level of customer service he experienced from RSA. 
He complained to RSA about the poor service and about the engineers who failed to 
diagnose and resolve the issue with his boiler sooner. In its final response, RSA accepted 
that the level of service provided wasnt its usual standard. It accepted that it missed 
opportunities to keep Mr B updated, which only added to the delay. So, it offered Mr B 
compensation of £75 for the inconvenience caused and offered an additional £75 
contribution towards the loss of heating and hot water. 
RSA further offered to reimburse Mr Bs cost of £19 for the temporary heater he bought and 
finally said that if Mr B were to provide evidence of the increased energy costs that he 
incurred, due to the loss of heating, it would consider those costs as well. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the offer and RSA reconsidered his complaint. It explained to Mr B 
that the maximum amount it could offer for the loss of heating was £75 (which it had already 
done). But for the inconvenience caused it offered a further £110 compensation. Making the 
total compensation offered of £260, in addition to the reimbursement for the heater and the 
offer to consider Mr Bs increased energy costs. 
Mr B remained unhappy with the offer and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. She agreed that 
RSA service was poor and that its engineers ought to have resolved Mr Bs boiler sooner. 
She said that as Mr B said he was vulnerable (due to him being elderly) and that he looked 
after his grandchildren and had been without heating and hot water, during winter for around 
three weeks, RSA should pay a further £240 compensation for the impact of its failure. She 
also noted that RSA hadnt reimbursed Mr B his increased energy costs.
Mr B accepted the view, RSA did not. RSA maintained that Mr B hadnt sent it any evidence 
to support that his energy costs had increased. It felt that the compensation it had already 
offered was fair and so it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 December 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 29 December 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, which I expect Mr B will be disappointed 
with, but I will explain why I think this is fair.  
Mr B has raised several complaint points. I havent responded to each individually, rather 
Ive focussed on the points I think are key to the complaint, and more in keeping with our 
remit as an alternative dispute resolution service to determine complaints quickly and with 
minimal formality.
A claim of this nature will always cause a certain amount of inconvenience, especially if 
replacement parts are needed, bearing in mind that Mr Bs boiler was old. And this isnt 
something RSA is able to avoid. But RSA has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Both parties agree that RSA sent several engineers to Mr Bs home in order to resolve the 
issues with his boiler. There were delays caused as a result of engineers not attending with 
the appropriate parts, the length of time to diagnose the issue and finally carrying out the 
repair. Coupled with this, Mr B had to chase RSA for updates, which RSA accepted it failed 
to provide. 
Ive carefully considered the impact of RSAs mistakes had on Mr B and the fairest way to 
put this right, taking his individual circumstances into account. Ive taken on board that Mr B 
said he had to look after his grandchildren without heating and hot water. And that the 
temporary heater wouldve provided limited heat during winter. RSA also failed to manage 
Mr Bs expectations throughout the claim and as a result, he had to chase RSA several 
times. But RSA had asked Mr B for further information regarding proof of the increased 
energy costs, which it hasnt received. 
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint carefully, I intend to ask RSA to pay 
Mr B a further £90 compensation (bringing the total to £350) for the upset and inconvenience 
caused. Im satisfied this reflects the short-lived impact of RSAs errors. 
RSA has agreed to refund the cost of the heater and I make no further recommendation
regarding this. 
Finally, if Mr B produces the utility bills that can show that there had been an increase in the 
energy costs (as opposed to the bank statements), then I can consider this.
 Responses to my provisional decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that the mistake was made by RSA 
and had nothing to do with the engineers, as RSA had mis-recorded the type of boiler it was.  This lead to the engineers being given the wrong parts because RSA gave them the wrong 
information. 
Mr B said that he has the bill and that it matches with the bank statement. RSA didnt tell him 
that a bank statement wouldnt be sufficient. He further added that if RSA wanted the 
previous providers bill he wouldve sent it to RSA.
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs responses, regarding the customer service failings. RSA 
accepted that there were a few customer service issues, for which it offered to pay Mr B 
compensation. RSA has now agreed to pay Mr B the increased £350 in total compensation. I 
think this is fair as it adequately reflects the inconvenience caused for the short-lived impact 
on Mr B. 
Mr B said that he wasnt aware that RSA would need to see the bill from his previous energy 
provider as the bill and his bank statements are the same. But, in my provisional decision, 
Mr B was asked to produce the utility bill so that any increase could be evidenced. Mr B 
hasnt produced the bill. So, I dont think its unreasonable that RSA has sight of the bill 
before considering reimbursing Mr Bs increased energy costs. If Mr B has those bills, then 
he should ask RSA if it wishes to consider them now, but I wont be asking RSA to consider 
the increased costs without the bills. 
Putting things right
 I direct RSA to put things right as I set out below.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To put matters right, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to pay total compensation of 
£350. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, 
at 8% a year simple. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman