DRN-3999847
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim under her 
home insurance policy following a leak.
What happened
Mrs S held home insurance and home emergency policies. Both insurance policies are 
underwritten by Aviva. The home emergency policy provides cover for plumbing and draining 
only.
On 6 November 2022, Mrs S contacted Aviva to report a leak at her property, which was 
causing damage. The claim was recorded under Mrs S home emergency policy rather than 
her home insurance policy. Aviva instructed a contractor to attend Mrs S home the same 
day. 
An engineer attended Mrs S property during the evening of 6 November 2022. They thought 
the cause of the problem was a leak on the system pipework. So, they turned off the boiler to 
isolate the leak and drained down the system, which left Mrs S without access to heating 
and hot water. 
Mrs S said she wasnt provided with any portable heaters, which she believes she was 
entitled to under the terms of her home emergency cover. And she said the engineer didnt 
mention any follow up appointment to repair the problem. Mrs S was informed that Aviva 
could only locate a home emergency policy on its records, which wouldnt cover a repair. 
She said she spent the night at her home without heating or hot water.
Mrs S contacted Aviva the following day to explain that she had a home insurance policy and 
that she was without heating and hot water as a result of the boiler being turned off. Aviva 
located Mrs S home insurance policy, after realising it has been registered under a previous 
address, and an engineer appointment was arranged for the same day.
Aviva said an engineer attended Mrs S address on 7 November 2022. But they were unable 
to undertake a repair due to insufficient time being allocated to the appointment. So, Mrs S 
remained without heating and hot water. She said Aviva authorised temporary relocation to a 
hotel, although this was paid for by Mrs S.
When Mrs S contacted Aviva the following day, it said it could send an engineer to her home 
on 9 November. But Mrs S explained that shed lost confidence with its appointed engineer. 
She asked Aviva to authorise the instruction of an independent engineer who could 
undertake the repair privately, which it agreed to do.
The independent contractor, which Ill refer to as G, wasnt able to attend Mrs S home to 
investigate the cause of water ingress until 11 November 2022. During Gs visit they noticed 
that the heating system had been drained down but there wasnt any pipework in the location 
of the water damage. After further investigation, G advised that the water ingress was due to 
a tile shifting on the roof, which was allowing water to penetrate. They refilled the boiler and 
tested it. No leaks were identified, and the boiler was left fully operational. By this time, Mrs 
S had been without heating and hot water for 5 days.
A roofer was instructed to undertake the necessary repair to her roof that D had identified. 
Mrs S said she paid the roofer privately was, ultimately, reimbursed under her buildings 
insurance policy.
Mrs S complained to Aviva about what had happened. She said the first engineer had 
misdiagnosed the cause of the water ingress and this had, unnecessarily, left her without 
vital amenities at a very cold time of year. She also stated that she was a vulnerable 
consumer as she suffered with health issues, which had been exacerbated during the time 
she was without heating.
When Aviva responded to Mrs S complaint, it agreed that it had failed to provide the level of 
service and repair it should have done. It apologised for that and offered Mrs S £150 
compensation. Aviva also told Mrs S it would reimburse the cost of Gs invoice in full and 
review the hotel expenses that shed incurred while she was without heating and hot water.
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to her complaint Mrs S referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the information provided by Mrs S and Aviva and recommended 
upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded that Aviva had dealt with this complaint 
fairly and they recommended it increase its offer of compensation to £400. They also told 
Aviva it should reimburse Mrs S for any costs she had incurred in resolving the leak.
Both Aviva and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators compensation assessment. Aviva 
thought the compensation it had already offered was reasonable. And Mrs S thought a total 
of £500 in compensation should be paid to resolve her complaint. She also confirmed that 
the costs shed incurred in relation to the claim still hadnt been reimbursed by Aviva.
Our investigator reviewed the responses that Aviva and Mrs S had provided and reduced the 
compensation recommendation to £300. But they recommended Aviva settle the invoice 
from G and hotel expenses in full  adding 8% interest to that sum. Mrs S disagreed with our 
investigators view of this complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mrs S and Aviva that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think Aviva made a mistake, or treated Mrs S unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. I can see Mrs S and Aviva have gone to some trouble to 
provide our service with some detailed points about this complaint. I want to assure them 
that Ive read everything theyve sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is 
key to this complaint.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mrs S contacted Aviva on 6 November 2022 
to report a leak at her property. Aviva told our service that Mrs S stated she couldnt control the leak and thought a pipe might be leaking. So, it arranged an emergency engineer 
appointment on her behalf and instructed the engineer to attend her home the same day. It 
isnt disputed that the engineer attended that evening. Im satisfied that Aviva took 
reasonable and appropriate action by recognising the urgency of the problem Mrs S was 
facing and dispatching an engineer to her home on 6 November 2022.
Its clear that there was significant confusion on Avivas part during the early stages of this 
claim. Aviva has told our service that, when the claim was recorded, the only policy showing 
against Mrs S address was the home emergency insurance. It said it wasnt aware Mrs S 
also had the benefit of a home insurance policy. 
The terms of the home emergency cover require Aviva to instruct an engineer to attend a 
policyholders property to identify the source of the leak and isolate it. The policy doesnt 
cover the repair or replacement of the heating tank.
Its clear that, as a result of confusion on Avivas part, Mrs S wasnt given correct information 
about what level of cover she had and what assistance she was entitled to expect. She said 
she was informed she didnt have a home insurance policy with Aviva. But this was incorrect 
and goes to evidence that Aviva wasnt accessing the correct details of Mrs S policy when it 
recorded the claim.
I can see that, from the outset of the claim, Mrs S had to persistently chase Aviva for 
updates on the progress and next steps. I can imagine that was very stressful and think this 
could have been avoided had the claim been better managed. Like our investigator, I think 
more could have been done on the notification call to ensure the claim was logged against 
the correct policy.
Confusion surrounding Mrs S policy with Aviva and the extent of her cover meant that she 
wasnt offered any further assistance and advice by the engineer that attended her property 
on 6 November. She was left without heating and hot water facilities and had to spend the 
night in her home during a very cold time of year. I accept Mrs S contention that this caused 
her additional trouble and upset  particularly given her health concerns.
I recognise that Aviva acknowledged Mrs S was entitled to additional support and assistance 
under her home insurance policy on 7 November 2022. But this could have been recognised 
the previous day, which would have avoided Mrs S having to spend the night in her 
unheated home and extended periods on the telephone in efforts to understand when further 
assistance would be provided by Aviva.
Records that Aviva has provided to our service demonstrate that, on 7 November 2022, it 
correctly identified Mrs S as a vulnerable consumer. I say this because, as a result of Mrs S 
explaining her health difficulties, Aviva prioritised the requirement for an engineer visit and 
flagged it as urgent. Theres no evidence that Aviva was aware of Mrs S vulnerability prior to 
this date. So, I cant fairly find that there was an earlier opportunity for Aviva to recognise 
Mrs S additional needs.
The records Ive seen persuade me that Mrs S was offered an engineers appointment for 7 
November 2022. However, this appointment wasnt successful due to insufficient time being 
allocated by Aviva. I think that was poor management of the claim by Aviva and, while it 
authorised temporary hotel accommodation for Mrs S, this might have been unnecessary if 
the attending engineer had been allocated more time and been able to identify the error 
made by the engineer the previous day.
I can understand why Mrs S might had lost confidence with Aviva after her experience on 6 
and 7 November. It was therefore reasonable for her to request the attendance of an independent contractor. Im pleased to see that Aviva acceded to this request promptly. I say 
this because, on 8 November, it authorised Mrs S to instruct G.
Mrs S said Aviva is responsible for delays in her hot water and heating facilities being 
restored. I agree with this. If the first engineer hadnt misdiagnosed the problem on 6 
November when they attended the emergency appointment the boiler wouldnt have been 
drained and shut off. So, Mrs S heating and hot water amenities wouldnt have been 
unnecessarily interrupted. 
Avivas appointed engineer ought to have correctly identified the source of the leak. It isnt 
clear why that didnt happen. It wasnt for Mrs S to tell Aviva or its engineer what was 
causing water to escape. It was the role of the engineer to identify the leak and stop it. Im 
satisfied that the service from the first engineer fell short of the standard that I think should 
have been provided by Aviva.
On the basis that the error the first engineer was identified by G, I think its a fair assumption 
that, if the appointment on 7 November had been allocated proper time, the attending 
engineer may have been able to identify the error made by the engineer the previous day. 
This would have meant that the temporary hotel accommodation Aviva had authorised for 
Mrs S might have been unnecessary and that might have minimised inconvenience.
I recognised that G couldnt attend Mrs S home until 11 November, which led to further 
delay in the heating and hot water facilities being restored. But Mrs S approached an 
independent contractor because she had, understandably, lost confidence with Aviva. As 
she said her health was declining during that time, Im persuaded that it reasonable for Mrs 
S to want the assurance from a contractor unconnected with Aviva that the next appointment 
would proceed without hindrance. Unfortunately, this all meant that Mrs S was without 
heating and hot water for 5 days.
During the time that Mrs S was without essential amenities, she incurred the costs of G 
attending and hotel accommodation.  
I can see that Aviva authorised temporary hotel accommodation for Mrs S because of her 
vulnerable health status. Given that she had no access to heating and hot water Im satisfied 
that relocating Mrs S to a hotel while the issue was ongoing was appropriate in the 
circumstances. However, Mrs S had to initially fund that cost; confirmed on the invoice Ive 
seen that shows she was accommodated in a hotel from 7 until 11 November 2022. 
Ive seen written communication between Aviva and Mrs S that shows it requested she 
provide confirmation that invoices had been paid before it was prepared to reimburse any 
costs shed incurred as part of the claim. This request was made on 22 November 2022. I 
dont think thats an unreasonable request and our service often sees requests from insurers 
that proof of payment is provided before a cost is reimbursed.
Ive asked Aviva whether it was aware Mrs S was experiencing financial difficulties as a 
result of having to fund things herself and wait for reimbursement. It told our service that Mrs 
S didnt share any hardship issues with it. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably in asking Mrs 
S to pay for work undertaken by the contractors she wanted to instruct.
Ive thought about the time it took for Aviva to reimburse Mrs S for the costs she incurred. 
Based on the chronology and timeline Mrs S has provided, its clear there was a substantial 
delay in Aviva reimbursing the funds spent. 
I understand that Mrs S provided evidence of her financial outlay to Aviva on 8 December. 
However, Avivas records indicate that payment wasnt made until after our investigators second view of this complaint. I can see that Mrs S has confirmed that shes now received 
payment for her hotel costs and Gs invoice.
During the time that the costs remained outstanding, Ive seen evidence of Mrs S chasing 
Aviva for updates on payment. Its difficult to understand why these costs remained 
outstanding for so long and Im persuaded that our investigators recommendation that Aviva 
pay 8% interest on the sums Mrs S paid for G and her hotel accommodation is reasonable. 
Aviva should therefore ensure that 8% interest is paid from the date the cost was incurred to 
the date of settlement. 
In recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs S was caused Aviva offered to pay £150. Its 
clear Mrs S doesnt feel that fairly reflects her experience here and I agree. Our investigator 
recommended Aviva increase its compensation to £400. However, they subsequently 
revised that recommendation by suggesting the total award should be £300. Mrs S feels this 
recommendation is unfair and disproportionate given her experience. 
While I hear what Mrs S has said here, I think its important to say that when our service 
considers an award of compensation we look at the impact of a business mistake on the 
consumer. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs S had to stay in an unheated home for the first night and, 
latterly, in a hotel until her heating and hot water was restored. She was unnecessarily 
without heating and hot water for 5 days, which meant she had to leave her home during that 
time. I accept that this was frustrating and inconvenient. Mrs S has said she had to return 
home during the day to try and assess the leak, progress her claim and tend to matters 
within her home such as feeding her pets. So, even though she was accommodated in a 
hotel, she spent extended periods at her home during the day without heating and hot water.
Its clear to me that this all caused trouble and upset, which was further exacerbated 
because this all happened during a period of very cold weather and caused Mrs S health to 
be detrimentally affected. The situation took 5 days to be resolved but, because Mrs S was 
accommodated elsewhere, Im persuaded that reasonable steps were taken to mitigate her 
distress and inconvenience.
Having had regard to the impact Avivas errors had on Mrs S and the length of time involved, 
Im satisfied that the £300 compensation award recommended by our investigator would be 
fair and reasonable here. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances and I havent seen enough to satisfy me that a higher award is warranted. 
Its unclear whether any compensation payments have been made to Mrs S. So, Aviva 
should ensure that £300 compensation is paid to Mrs S to resolve this complaint inclusive of 
any payments that may have already been made. 
 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Im directing Aviva to pay £300 compensation to Mrs S for the poor 
service she received. It should also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on Mrs S 
hotel expenses and the invoice she paid G  from the date payment was made by her to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs S £300 compensation in total to resolve her complaint;pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on Mrs S hotel expenses and the 
invoice she paid G from the date of payment to the date of settlement*. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman