DRN-3619283
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, after she said shed 
fallen victim to a scam. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 29 June 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that provisional 
decision here, and it forms part of this final decision.
Miss C has told us that she met a person online and started a relationship that spanned over
around three years. Shes told us that early in their relationship her partner had asked her to
lend him money, but she had declined. Miss C said she sadly lost her brother in September
2019, and shortly after this she began to spend more time with her partner  visiting him
several times at his home. Shes told us that she was introduced to his family, friends and
neighbours, which convinced her his advances were genuine.
By December 2019, Miss C has said that her partner had gained her trust to the extent that
she agreed to enter into a property rental partnership with him. Shes told us her partner
already had a rental property and so she felt she could trust him with the knowledge and
experience he had. Shes said she was convinced by her partner to look for a property in a
certain area, so they would be able to rent it out to his family. Miss C says she completely
trusted her partner and, as a result, she was coaxed to allow the first property purchase to
cater for his family. Miss C explains that within a matter of weeks of agreeing to this, a
limited company was set up and her partner encouraged her to sign on as a director of the
company. She said as she trusted him completely, she agreed to sign documentation
without reading it or taking advice.
Miss C was told money was needed upfront for a deposit for the purchase, so she agreed to
invest her savings of £35,000 and drew a cheque for this amount, which she gave to her
partner. Miss C has said her partner had told her he wanted the money in his account and
she trusted him to hold the funds for the property purchase. Miss Cs explained she chose to
issue a cheque, rather than make a bank transfer, as it was the most convenient method for
her at the time and shes never been comfortable with online banking. The cheque was
initially returned unpaid, but then cleared Miss Cs account on 1 July 2020.
Miss C says after giving her partner the money, she noticed that he was becoming more
distant and less and less responsive. Shortly after this she confronted him, after discovering
he was with somebody else and she told him she wanted her money back, which shes said
at the time he agreed to. Miss C has said she didnt receive the money back and he stopped
messaging her thereafter. Shes told us that she tried to contact him, but in their last
conversation he made threats towards her and her family.
In an attempt to try and recover her money, Miss C decided to proceed with the preliminaries
for the property purchase. She was hoping that shed be able to stop the sale, after her
partner had sent the funds for the purchase, and shed then be able to recover the funds at
the point of exchange/ prior to exchange. Miss C contacted the solicitors and instructed them
that exchange shouldnt happen without her authority and signature. The emails and
mortgage offer show that the property was being purchased in the name of the company that
had been set up, with Miss C and her partner as directors.
It is Miss Cs belief that she was engaged in the venture purely for her partners personal
gain, so that he could obtain a limited company for himself in order to help him out with his
financial problems and that she has been scammed. From what the evidence suggests, the
property purchase didnt end up going through.
Miss C has said when she initially raised the matter with Lloyds, she was told there was
nothing that could be done as the cheque had been cashed. Miss C believes that time has
been lost in trying to recover her money. Lloyds issued its final response to Miss C in
September 2020, not upholding her complaint. In summary it said that this was because, due
to the method of payment Miss C had used, it was unable to support her in retrieving the
funds.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Miss C then brought her complaint to our service. One of our
investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary
he said this was because a cheque isnt considered a payment service under the Payment
Service Regulations (PSRs), so it wasnt monitored in the same way as say a faster
payment or a debit card payment. He added that even if, when it was going through clearing,
the cheque had triggered and led Lloyds to make further enquiries, he didnt think it would
have made a difference and Miss C would have still gone ahead with the payment. He said
this because, Miss C was a director of the property business at the time, and he didnt think
there would have been any reason for Lloyds to challenge her.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary she said;
-The investigators findings were hypothetical and only a matter of opinion and she 
maintained that Lloyds should have been able to recover the money from her ex-
partners account.
-She had hired a solicitor, to try and help her get the money back, but it is a long 
process and she doesnt have the funds to pursue it with no certainty of getting her 
money back.
-Directorship of the company was assigned without her knowledge, with her only 
discovering this much later.
-Her partner had suggested that she lend him money previously and there was ever 
increasing pressure from her partner, after he had learnt that she had some savings.
-Her vulnerability was heightened following the passing of her brother.
-She thought the funds were being paid into a joint account, where she would still 
have access to her funds.
-She hadnt written the payee details on the cheque, not due to negligence, but 
because she thought the funds would be paid into a joint account. She only learnt 
after the cheque had been deposited that her partner had made himself the payee. 
But he assured her at the time that he would hold the monies on trust, which she 
trusted he would do.-After the cheque had initially been returned, her partner drove her to a branch of 
Lloyds to resolve things. Where again he reassured Miss C that he would hold the 
funds on trust until the joint business account had been set up. Miss C says that the 
person in branch did not make any additional checks or enquiries.
-Lloyds had a duty to protect customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or 
financial abuse.
-The fraud has consumed her for over a year and she suffers from anxiety and bouts 
of depression as a result.  
-To this day, shes said still doesnt know what happened and whether what her 
partner said was actually true or false. She believed whole heartedly that her partner 
was genuine with the investment. But now believes her money was stolen.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently think that I can fairly instruct Lloyds to refund the payment
to Miss C. I realise this will be very disappointing news for Miss C  especially considering
how I can see this has been a very difficult time for her and I was very sorry to hear that
Miss Cs brother had passed away.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the
courts.
Its understandable having lost such a significant sum why Miss C feels she has been the
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact
fraudulent and/or a scam. I have taken account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines fraud
as, amongst other things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether express or
implied, in order to make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a representation is false
if its untrue or misleading and the representor knows that it is or might be untrue or
misleading.
I can understand entirely why Miss C feels so strongly about what has happened. But, with
what I know and on balance, I cant safely say with any certainty, that there was an intent
here to set out to defraud her. I say that as there are a number of factors in the
circumstances of this case that do not carry the typical hallmarks of this being a scam. Ill
explain why.
Miss C had known her partner for a number of years and had been introduced to his family,
friends and neighbours - this is not typical of how fraudsters would usually operate. But, I
accept that it is possible for scammers to target both people that they have met only online
and people that they have gotten to know through ongoing face to face interactions. So this
in and of itself, doesnt excluded the possibility that Miss C was scammed. It is not themethod used by a fraudster that is determinative here, but rather, what their intention was
and was it to set out to obtain money by deceiving her.
Miss C has said that directorship of the company was assigned without her knowledge, but
Im mindful shes also told us that she was encouraged to sign on as a director. I think this
indicates that it was more likely than not, Miss C was aware that a company was being set
up and that she was part of. Im persuaded this is supported by Miss C telling us that, when
discussing the investment with her partner, they spoke about it being joint ownership with a
50 / 50 split. It is not typical for a fraudster to set up a limited company with their victims. I
wouldnt expect a fraudster to want to have the obvious longer term ties and links to
somebody they intend to defraud, that a limited company would bring  particularly given
that in the circumstances of the investment here, there would have been no need for a
limited company to have been set up. This suggests to me that there was more likely the
intent to genuinely enter into a business venture.
Miss Cs partner, at least for a time, was still contactable after she had made the payment
and the purchase of the property seemingly didnt fall through until sometime after the
relationship with her partner had broken down. This is not typically the case with fraudsters,
who more often than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money.
It is inherently difficult for a bank or an Ombudsman scheme to determine whether Miss C
was deceived into a false relationship which can only have been for the purposes of taking
money from her or whether it was a genuine relationship that had broken down. And Im
mindful that Miss C has herself said, that to this day, she still doesnt know what happened
and whether what her partner said was actually true or false.
Given that the circumstances of this particular case, dont display the hallmarks most
typically associated with this type of scam, on balance, I cant safely say this situation meets
the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Having concluded that I cant safely
say this was a scam, there is nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation
to protect its customers from bad bargains/investments or give them investment advice.
A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for
alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second
thoughts after the event. Indeed, a banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment
mandate under the terms and conditions of the account contract (and of course the
customers ancillary contract with the third-party payee, e.g. a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc).
This position has long been recognised at common law. So, if it fails to comply with a validly
executed payment order, the bank could be held liable in damages  as could the drawer
(i.e. payer) where the payment method used is a cheque.
Miss Cs submissions in parts relates to the BSI Code of Practice: PAS 17271: 2017
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. And Im
conscious our investigator, explained in their view that they didnt think an intervention would
have made a difference here. Where we have not surmounted the initial hurdle of concluding
that something was fraud, Im not required to make a finding on whether a bank should have
been triggered and intervened in a case. In my judgment, these are not relevant to the facts
of this particular case, as there is no responsibility for Lloyds to refund Miss C.
That said, I am very mindful that Miss C has raised concerns that Lloyds did not do enough
to protect her which has contributed to the overall loss that she has suffered. So, for
completeness and for the avoidance of any doubt, I think it would be useful for me to add
that even if I were to consider this was a scam, which for reasons explained above, I dont. I
still wouldnt consider that Lloyds would be liable to refund the money Miss C has sadly lost.
I say this as I would need to be persuaded that the banks intervention would have made adifference and prevented the payment from being made. I have to base my findings on the
balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened, taking
into account what I know. Here, even if Lloyds had asked Miss C further questions, that I
could reasonably have expected it to ask about the purpose of the payment she was making,
I think its more likely than not that she would have still gone ahead and made the payment.
I say that as the payment was intended for a property, that she was investing in with her
partner, who she had been in a relationship with for many years. I think it would also have
been apparent that a limited company had been set up, that Miss C was part of and, at least
at the time, Miss C completely trusted and believed things were genuine.
Overall I think Miss C would have been able to answer any questions Lloyds asked her
plausibly and I dont think its more likely than not the answers she would have given, would
have given Lloyds cause for concern that she may be at risk of financial harm.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Miss C. I realise how upsetting this
is for her. I can understand entirely, given the significance of her loss, why she believes she
has fallen victim to a scam and feels strongly that her money should be returned to her.
However, ultimately, Miss C paid a sum by cheque for what appeared to be  at least at the
material time  a legitimate property investment she was engaging in with her then partner.
There is no evidence that Lloyds had  or ought reasonably to have had  concerns about
the payment she was making. I therefore conclude that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably
when settling the payment instructed by Miss C.
Miss C has my considerable sympathies. Shes found herself in an unenviable situation
where shes paid a substantial amount of money for an investment that hasnt materialised.
And I understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont
underestimate her strength of feeling and the impact this has had on her. But overall, for
reasons explained Im minded to say that Lloyds cannot fairly or reasonably be held liable for
Miss Cs loss in these circumstances.
I can see Miss C has mentioned shes hired a solicitor and spoken about taking matters
through the courts. Miss C doesnt have to accept any final decision I issue, and if she
doesnt it wont be binding on her. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court
might impose, Miss Cs right to pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our
consideration of this complaint.
For the reasons I outlined my provisional decision was not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
I gave Miss C and Lloyds until 13 July 2022 to provide any further evidence or arguments 
that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss C responded and 
requested an extension, to allow her to assess the matter properly and seek professional 
advice. Miss C was granted an extension of two weeks, to 27 July 2022, to provide any 
further submissions.
Lloyds responded to say that it agreed with the provisional decision. Miss C was unable to 
provide any further submission within the extended deadline and so the case has now been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional finding not to uphold my 
complaint. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I appreciate my findings will be disappointing for Miss C, 
but for all of the reasons explained in my provisional decision I dont find that Lloyds can 
fairly or reasonably be held liable for Miss Cs loss.
I understand that Miss C wanted further time, in order to provide further submissions. But Im 
satisfied that all the key information and considerations of this complaint have been outlined 
in my provisional decision. And given the length of time this case has been with this service 
and since the investigator shared his first opinion (just under twelve months ago, at the time 
of the provisional decision) and as an extension had been granted after the provisional 
decision, I saw no reason to extend the deadline any further.
I would reiterate to Miss C that it is important to point out that were an informal and impartial 
dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. Miss C doesnt have to 
accept my final decision on her complaint. If she doesnt, it wont be binding on either party 
and subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, her right to take 
legal action against Lloyds wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of her 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman