DRN-3002679
The complaint
Mr J2, as representative and executor, complains on behalf of his father, Mr J1, and the
estate of his mother, Mrs J, that they were mis-sold ISAs by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
In summary, Mr J2 says:
The life cover that eventually paid out following the death of Mrs J was £1,170 short.
Mr J1 and Mrs J were sold the ISAs on the basis that theyd provide a return of 3%, 
but they didnt.
Overall, theyve lost in the region of £16,000.
What happened
In late-July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J2 says, I cant safely say that
the recommendations to invest in 2004 was unsuitable. In other words, Im unable to safely
that the investments carried more risk than Mr J1 and Mrs J was prepared to take with the
ISAs.
In the circumstances, I also think that the matter relating to the life cover  in respect of
which Mr J1 has already accepted the business offer of redress in full and final settlement 
is no longer something that I need to consider in this case.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr J1s strength of
feeling about this matter. Mr J2 has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr J2 and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
For the record, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to say that the redress
offered by Barclays is unreasonable. Whilst we would suggest Barclays try put Mr J1 and
Mrs J in the position they wouldve been in, but for the error, Barclays appears to have
awarded Mr J1 what he and Mrs J thought they were entitled to.
I note Mrs J invested £44,855.29 and received £36,808.62, therefore the amount of shortfall
 based on what Mr J1 and Mrs J believed theyd get back as a minimum  is £8,046.67 
from 8 October 2018. This amount with interest at 8% simple, from 8 October 2018 (plus 31
days), according to Barclays is £896.96.
I note that, less tax paid at 20% and £5,775.88 already paid, Barclays offered Mr J1 another
£2,988.27. So, in essence, Mr J1 got back what he and Mrs J thought they would get 
subject to my comments above  in other words the sum that they put in place, even though
this product wasnt a capital guaranteed product. Notwithstanding what they say, Ive seen
nothing to suggest that they specifically wanted capital protection.
I also dont think Barclays calculating the value of the ISA from the date of death is
unreasonable. I think its, as a financial business, entitled to select the date in the reasonable
exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. I know that some business might calculate
the value using date of surrender, but its not for us to tell Barclays, how to run its business.
Im satisfied that documentation provided made reasonably clear the date that would be
used for calculating the value.
But notwithstanding the points above, Im unable to ignore the fact that Mr J1 has accepted
the redress offered by Barclays in full and final settlement for this element of the complaint.
Therefore, I dont think I need to consider this element any further.
The key issue for me to now consider is the 2004 sale of the ISA, which is the primary
subject of this complaint.
Provisionally, on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to say that the
recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr J1 and Mrs J werent first time inexperienced investors. So, whilst they might not have
been experienced investors, they werent without investment experience. So, I think its likely
that they understood the risk and what that would entail for the ISA. Im mindful that their 
previous investments were in medium risk investments and that they were downgraded
because Mr J1 and Mrs J didnt want to take as much risk.
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im unable to say that the Distribution Fund 
with 30% equities  was unsuitable for them, given their risk appetite and objectives. In other
words, I cant safely say the fund carried more risk than they were willing to take.
I note it was recorded in the reasons why letter that whilst Mr J1 and Mrs J were willing to
accept some level of risk, which meant their investments could fall in value, and they wanted
to restrict that risk.
So, this would clearly suggest that they werent risk averse, in other words not willing to take
any risk at all. I agree with Barclays that they wanted to reduced fluctuations, but they
werent intent on avoiding them completely, therefore the recommendation wasnt
unsuitable.
In the circumstances, the investigators recommendation for redress based on the fixed rate
bond with 12-17 months maturity would be unsuitable in any case, because is suitable for an
investor not willing to take any risk at all.
I note that Mr J1 and Mrs J were willing to invest in investments which were unlikely to fall
substantially in value by the end of the intended investment period. But Ive seen nothing to
suggest that this would be the case with their ISAs.
Im satisfied that Mr J1 and Mrs J had capacity to invest and replace any losses. Given theirage and financial circumstances, Im satisfied that they were able to invest in a low risk
based investment, with 30% equity, and still have access to a reasonable amount of cash for
emergencies. I note Mr J1 and Mrs J didnt feel that they could replace any great losses, but
they dont mention not being able to replace any losses at all.
Whilst Mr J1 is disappointed with the returns, I note that he and Mrs J werent given any
guarantees as to what theyd get back.
In the circumstances, I think the £350 compensation offered for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the delays in dealing with the complaint is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr J1 will be very unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
Barclays responded and said that it had nothing further to add. 
Mr J2 also responded and said that he was very disappointed that I didnt uphold the 
complaint. However, he was grateful that the investigator and I had taken the time to 
seriously consider the complaint. 
Mr J2 also said that there was little that he could add other than what was already said. He 
maintains that the recommendation was unsuitable and that Mr J1 and Mrs J suffered 
financial loss as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision not to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr J2s kind comments, no new material points have been made that 
persuade me to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points 
remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that the Distribution Fund 
 with 30% equities  was unsuitable for Mr J1 and Mrs J, given their risk appetite and 
objectives. In other words, on balance I still cant safely say that the 2004 recommendation 
was unsuitable or carried more risk than they were willing to take.
In the circumstances, I also still think that the matter relating to the life cover  in respect of
which Mr J1 has already accepted the business offer of redress in full and final settlement 
is not something that I need to consider in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and the 
estate of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Dara IslamOmbudsman