DRN-4322252
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Wakam handled his claim on his taxi motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F is a taxi driver and has a taxi insurance policy thats underwritten by Wakam to cover 
his vehicle.
In September 2022 a motorbike drove into his vehicle while it was parked outside his house. 
He made a claim on the insurance and this was accepted.
Two days after the accident Mr F was provided with a courtesy car through a different 
insurance policy. However this was only provided for 14 days. And at this time his vehicle 
still hadnt been collected for repairs.
On 18 October Mr F took it to Wakams approved repairer. And, following some delays to 
obtaining the relevant part, the vehicle was repaired and ready to collect on 3 November.
However Mr F was unhappy with how Wakam had handled the claim. He said the vehicle 
was the only one available to him for both work and social use. So the delay in it being 
repaired left him without a vehicle once the courtesy car was taken away.
He made a complaint, but Wakam didnt uphold it. So he brought it to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the policy stated that a 
courtesy car would be provided and didnt mention that this would only be for 14 days. So 
she thought Wakam should have provided a car for the whole time Mr F was without one.
She therefore thought it should compensate him £300 for the time the car was in the garage 
and pay loss of earnings from 8 October to 18 October for a delay in picking up the vehicle.
Wakam didnt respond to our investigators outcome so the complaint has come to me to
decide.
On 15 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision on the complaint which said:
Mr Fs policy states as follows:
You will be provided with a Courtesy Car, subject to availability, to ensure You can keep
mobile (Comprehensive & Comprehensive Plus cover only). The Courtesy Car can be
used for social domestic and pleasure use only.
Mr F has comprehensive plus cover, so I can see that he was entitled to a replacement
vehicle while his was being replaced, but for social use only. So Ive considered what this
means for Mr Fs complaint.
There are three key time periods in this case:
From 23 September until 7 October Mr F had a courtesy car under another insurance
policy that provided use for both business and social.
From 8 October until 17 October when Mr F was without a courtesy car and his
vehicle was still at his house.
From 18 October to 3 November when the vehicle was at the garage being repaired.
The first time period I dont need to consider, as while Mr Fs car hadnt been fixed, he didnt
experience any detriment. As he had a replacement vehicle that he could use as a taxi and
for social use.
However from 8 October to 3 November, Mr F was without a vehicle. So Ive considered
whether Wakam should have done more during this time.
From 8 October Mr Fs vehicle was still parked outside his home. This meant Wakams
repairers hadnt been able to inspect the vehicle or progress repairs. Wakam has said the
repairer had asked Mr F to drive the vehicle to the garage so an inspection could take place.
However Mr F had said he wasnt able to drive the vehicle due to the damage, as he had
concerns about it worsening and causing issues to other vehicles on the road.
Ive considered this, but I think Mr F could have done more to ensure his car was reviewed
by the repairers sooner. The photos of the damage provided show that it was quite limited
and largely aesthetic. While the side of the bumper of the car has cracked, it doesnt appear
likely to imminently fall off.
Further, on 18 October Mr F has said on the advice of the garage he taped up the damage
and did drive the vehicle to the garage. So I think this is something he could have
reasonably done sooner. Especially considering he had from 23 September until 17 October
to do so. And could have asked the garage for advice during this time. Had he done so, as
he eventually was able to drive the car into the garage, it seems likely he would have been
able to deliver it sooner. I therefore cant hold Wakam responsible for delays before the
vehicle was delivered to its repairer, and wont ask it to pay loss of use during this time.
Once it was at the garage, Wakam has shown that there was a problem obtaining the 
required part. And that it took proactive steps to obtain a part that would be available sooner.
So Im satisfied it did all it could to reduce the time it took to repair. So I dont agree it caused
delays.
However under the policy, Mr F was entitled to a courtesy car for social use. And he should
have been provided with one while his vehicle was repaired. As he lost out on this, I think
Wakam should pay loss of use for the time the car was in the garage being repaired. Ive
calculated this as 17 days between 18 October and 3 November. This service usually
expects a business to pay £10 a day for loss of use for social purposes. I therefore think
Wakam should pay £170 to make up for the loss of use during this time.
However as Mr F wasnt entitled to a replacement taxi under the policy, just a vehicle for
social use, I wont ask Wakam to reimburse any loss of earnings.
Ive also considered the impact the matter has had on Mr F. He has been without a vehicle
for a long period, even though he was entitled to one under his policy. And hes said it left
him feeling depressed as he was unable to work and didnt have a vehicle for social use
either. While I cant hold Wakam responsible for the fact he was unable to work as a taxi
driver, as the policy didnt provide for this. It would have been distressing for him to have not
have had a vehicle at all during this time. I therefore think Wakam should pay him £130
compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Response to my provisional decisionWakam didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr F responded and didnt accept it. He said that he was in constant contact with the garage 
before he delivered his vehicle to it, and it had said there were delays with the part and it 
was too busy to take his car in. He therefore didnt agree that he could have delivered his car 
to the garage any earlier.
He also said he didnt think it was fair that I hadnt considered the evidence hed provided in 
relation to his lost earnings. He said when he had bought a taxi policy, hed assumed this 
would provide a replacement taxi and not just a vehicle for social use. And didnt think it fair 
that he lost out on income that Wakam hadnt covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about the garage not having room to store his vehicle 
before he took it in on 17 October. And I understand he may not have been able to deliver it 
to the garage much sooner than he did. However from the time of the accident until 17 
October, he had his vehicle in his possession. And while I understand why he would have 
been unable to use it as a taxi  as the damage to it would have been concerning for 
customers - Ive not seen anything to suggest the vehicle wasnt drivable for social use. 
As I referenced in my provisional decision, the damage to the vehicle appeared limited and 
largely aesthetic. And while Mr F has said he was worried about driving it in case the 
condition worsened, hes provided nothing to show that the damage meant it couldnt be 
driven. Further, he was able to drive the vehicle to the garage safely by taping up the 
damage to ensure it didnt worsen or parts of the car didnt detach. So even if Mr F had been 
unable to get his vehicle to the garage any earlier, between 7 October and 17 October he did 
have a vehicle in his possession that he could have used for social use. And as that is all he 
was covered for under his policy, I dont think he missed out because Wakam didnt provide 
a courtesy car during this time. 
Once Mr F had taken his car to the garage, he was then without a vehicle for social use, 
which is why during this period I concluded it was fair for Wakam to compensate him for the 
loss of use. And after considering Mr Fs comments, Im not persuaded Wakam should pay 
for loss of use outside of these dates. 
I note Mr Fs comments about his expectations of his insurance policy not being met, as he 
expected it to provide a replacement taxi and not just a vehicle for social use. As part of this 
complaint, Ive not considered the sale of the policy. If Mr F has concerns about the 
information he was provided about the policy when he bought it then this would need to be 
raised as a separate complaint against either the broker that he bought the policy through or 
Wakam if bought directly from it. 
However in deciding this complaint, I can only consider if Wakam acted fairly and in line with 
the terms of the policy Mr F had. And his policy only provided a courtesy car for social use 
and not to use as a taxi. Therefore Wakam wasnt obliged to ensure Mr F could continue to 
earn while his car was out of use and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to reimburse his lost 
earnings for that reason. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded to depart from the findings laid out in my provisional 
decision. And I therefore direct Wakam to pay Mr F a total of £300 to compensate him for the 
loss of use of his vehicle while it was being repaired and for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Fs complaint and require Wakam to pay Mr F a total 
of £300 compensation - £170 for 17 days loss of use and £130 to apologise for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman