DRN-3746503
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains about the handling by Metro Bank PLC of its 
request to switch banks under the incentivised business banking switch scheme.
Mr D, a director of G, brings the complaint on G's behalf.
What happened
The circumstances of this dispute are familiar to both parties so I will summarise briefly.
In December 2020, Mr D contacted Metro to enquire about switching Gs account to Metro 
under the business banking switch scheme. In March 2021, he chased up his enquiry, and 
had a telephone conversation to initiate the process. Following this call, Mr D sent Metro the 
required paperwork.
In April, Mr D sought an update from Metro on his application, to which the bank responded 
questioning when Mr D had sent in the documentation. Mr D responded immediately to 
explain, but then didnt hear anything back.
In May, Metro sent Mr D an email saying that it had not received all the requested 
documentation. It asked for this within the next 48 hours and said that otherwise G would not 
be eligible to receive the incentive payment. However, the email didnt set out precisely what 
further information was required. Mr D responded to explain that he had sent in the 
requested documents and asked what further information was needed. Again, he didnt hear 
anything back.
In June, Mr D chased Metro twice for an update, but received no response. Finally, Metro 
responded to say that it had received the account opening form and switching form but 
required some further information to satisfy its account set-up procedures. This time Metro 
specified the required information but gave a deadline of 6.00pm that day by which it needed 
to be provided for G to be eligible for the incentive payment.
Mr D engaged with Metro to provide the requested information, but just after 5.00pm he 
received an email from Metro saying that the deadline had passed so the incentive was no 
longer available.
In June and July, Mr D complained to the chief executive of Metro but received no response. 
However, Metro says it has no record of receiving these letters.
Mr D also complained by email. In July, Metro responded saying that it had done nothing 
wrong. Metro said that it had requested the further information from Mr D in May, giving 
sufficient time for it to be provided.
In September, having not seen Metros response, Mr D complained again. But Metro simply 
referred to its previous response. 
Mr D brought Gs complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator considered Gs complaint and said that Metro ought to have told Mr D what
specific information it required to complete the switch much sooner than it did, which would 
have given Mr D sufficient time to submit it. She also said that, in the final exchange in June, 
having given the deadline of 6.00pm it was unreasonable for Metro to say that he had 
missed the deadline before this time had even passed. To put things right, our Investigator 
said that Metro should pay G the incentive payment it would have received had the switch 
completed, plus interest on this amount, and £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to G.
Metro changed its mind in response to this view. In its latest response, it said that it was 
willing to pay G the proposed compensation for inconvenience but didnt think it should pay 
the incentive amount unless G did actually move its account to Metro.
As Mr D was unwilling to accept this offer, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between Mr D and Metro and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint. I believe there are two key issues:
What went wrong in the handling of Gs application to switch its bank account to 
Metro under the business banking switch scheme
What is the appropriate way to put things right
I consider each in turn.
What went wrong
As summarised above, Mr D sought on many occasions an update from Metro on the status 
of his application to switch Gs bank account to Metro under the business banking switch 
scheme. Most of those requests went unanswered.
When Metro did get in touch in May to request further information, it didnt specify what 
precise information was needed. And it then didnt respond to Mr Ds requests for 
clarification sent on the same day, and twice more in June.
Metro has said that Mr D had over two weeks from the email in May to provide the 
information, but I dont think this is fair as the email wasnt clear what gaps remained in the 
application and therefore what information Mr D needed to provide.
When Metro did clarify what information was required, it provided an unreasonably short 
deadline of the same day  and then said that the deadline had been missed even before it 
had been reached.
In my view, Metros failure to respond in a timely way to the reasonable questions raised by 
Mr D, and thereby not providing clarity sufficiently early about the further information 
required from him, meant that Gs application to switch to Metro under the business banking 
switch scheme missed the deadline.What is the appropriate way to put things right
I have considered what would have happened had these mistakes not occurred. I believe G 
would have switched its account to Metro, an incentive payment of £1,250 would have been 
paid to G, and G would not have been inconvenienced in having to repeatedly pursue Metro 
through the process.
Metros view is that it is not fair and reasonable for it to pay an incentive to G when G did not 
in the end go ahead with the switch. It submitted that the reason the switch didnt happen 
may be due to Metros actions, which is why it is willing to offer compensation, but it believes 
the incentive amount should only be paid to G if G does actually switch its bank account to 
Metro.
However, it is not for me to tell G where to bank. Therefore, my focus is on what action 
Metro must take to put things right.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I think it appropriate for Metro to pay G the amount it 
would have received under the incentive scheme, ie £1,250. I say that because this was an 
incentivised switch, so G was denied this amount by missing the deadline. I acknowledge 
that Metro has also not gained G as a customer, but that is also in consequence of Metros 
actions, which caused G to miss the deadline.
As G has been without this money from the time when the switch should have gone through, 
I also think it appropriate for Metro to pay interest on this amount. Had the information been 
provided in June, I think it reasonable that the account would have been set up and the 
incentive payment paid by the start of July. Therefore, I believe Metro should pay G interest 
at 8% simple per annum on £1,250 from 1 July 2022 until the date of payment.
Given G is the complainant in this case and G is a company, and given that companies 
cannot feel distress, I cannot make any award to Mr D for any anxiety or distress caused to 
him by Metros actions. However, G has been inconvenienced in the time spent by Mr D on 
these matters. For this, I believe it appropriate for Metro to pay G £200.
I have considered whether G could have mitigated any of its losses by accessing the 
business bank switch scheme through a different bank. However, given the limited period in 
which the scheme was available, and the timing of its application to Metro, I dont think this 
would have been possible.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Metro Bank PLC to pay G:
£1,250, plus 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from 1 July 2022 to the 
date of payment; and
£200 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman