DRN-1800479
The complaint
Miss F complains that JCT600 Limited (JCT600) mis-sold a finance agreement to her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint JCT600, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Miss F. If I was satisfied that Miss F was likely to have been told 
something that was wrong and that led her to enter into a finance agreement she would not 
otherwise have entered into, I would think JCT600 were accountable and Id ask them to 
take some further action.
Here I think that it is likely Miss F was told she could simply return the car when she left for 
the US and that she was mis-led about the costs she would incur if she did so. I say that 
because:
Ive seen copies of communication Miss F had with an attorney in the US that pre-
dates the car deal. It is clear that there is an intention to relocate. Im persuaded its 
very likely Miss F would have told the dealership about this;
Miss F contacted this service on the day she returned the car. I think this also 
supports her testimony that she was simply expecting to return the car without 
charge;
as I accept that Miss F was preparing to live in the US there seems little reason for 
her to enter into an agreement where there would be significant charges if she didnt 
complete the term. I would expect the dealership to have explained this to her and I 
dont think its likely Miss F would have entered into the agreement if shed been 
adequately informed about the charges that would apply;
I understand that Miss F responded to a questionnaire at the time and suggested she 
would usually change her car every three years. I dont think that suggests she was 
going to do that on this occasion as Ive seen evidence she was preparing to move 
abroad.
If think, on balance, that it is likely Miss F was mis-sold this agreement and, had she been 
aware of the charges that would apply if she chose to end the agreement early, I dont think 
she would have entered into the deal. 
Putting things right
When considering the redress that should be made in cases of misrepresentation such as 
this I am trying to put the consumer into the position they would have been in had the 
misrepresentation not happened.
Im not trying to treat the misrepresentation as if it were true.
So, I would usually ask the business to end the credit agreement, take back the car and 
refund any deposit. Id also ask them to refund any payments that had been made. But Id 
allow them to make a deduction from this refund to compensate them for the use the 
consumer had from the car.
In this case the agreement has already been terminated and the car has been returned. 
There was no deposit listed on the agreement that needed to be considered. Miss F 
travelled about 10,500 miles in about ten and a half months so I think it would be 
unreasonable to ask the business to refund any finance instalments she had paid as she 
appears to have had reasonable use of the car during that period.
But in addition to the monthly finance instalments Miss F has had to pay the business 
£3,640.39 to be released from her contract. That money should be returned to her with 
interest as she has been deprived of it.
Im not persuaded that sufficient evidence has been provided of additional charges Miss F 
may have had to pay on the £3,640.39 she paid through credit cards. I therefore dont think it 
would be fair to ask the business to make any accommodation for that.
Miss F has clearly been inconvenienced by this matter and it must have been distressing to 
have needed to deal with the issue shortly before she left for the US. In those circumstances 
I think the business should also pay her £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell JCT600 Limited to:
pay Miss F £3,640.39 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss F £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman