DRN-3777311
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his claims for 
escape of water under his home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes its representatives, contractors and 
surveyors.
What happened
Mr A contacted RSAs home emergency section in mid-November 2020 and reported an 
escape of water. A plumber had previously attended in August 2020 and found an issue with 
the ground floor cloakroom. The issues continued however, and RSAs surveyor 
subsequently inspected the property in February 2021. The surveyor produced a report 
following inspection of the cloakroom, main bathroom on the first floor and en suite bathroom 
on the top floor. Three separate claims for escape of water were then registered.
Mr As claim regarding a leak in the en suite bathroom on the top floor was accepted by 
RSA, however the estimated costs of repair were below the excess amount of £350 and so 
RSA didnt pay the claim. RSA considered that the other two leaks had been going on for 
some time and declined these claims as it said the damage wasnt caused by an insurable 
event.
Mr A complained about RSAs decision to decline his claims and thought that although RSA 
registered three separate claims they might be connected. RSA maintained its position. Mr A 
was unhappy as he felt hed reported the issues in good time and that the damage had 
become much worse as RSA hadnt sent anyone round to fix the problem. He therefore 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As to the main bathroom and cloakroom, he 
said he couldnt fairly say that the damage was caused by one-off events. He also didnt 
think that RSAs actions led to damage getting significantly worse. As to the top floor en-
suite bathroom, he didnt think RSA made an error when it didnt pay out for this claim as it 
was below Mr As excess amount. 
Mr A remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions of Mr 
As home insurance policy in a fair and reasonable when declining his claims. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, however I cant say that RSA acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in applying the relevant policy and Ill explain why.
The starting point for my consideration has to be the wording of the policy. The policy covers 
the usual perils including escape of water from a fixed water system. Standard exclusions 
also apply. I also note that there is also emergency cover for necessary plumbing repairs to 
restore the service or to prevent further damage.
Under the heading of uninsurable risks, the terms and conditions include the following: -
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or 
resulting from: wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, 
condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over a period of time [and] 
rot, unless its caused directly by an escape of water incident specifically covered by this 
policy.
It also states If you dont keep your home and belongings in good condition, you may find 
that damage has been caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, or that loss or 
damage has happened gradually over time. These arent things your insurance covers. It 
also adds: Taking care - Your family must take all reasonable steps to avoid incurring 
liability and prevent loss or damage to everything covered by this insurance, and to keep all 
the property insured in good condition and in good repair.
Firstly, turning to Mr As submissions, he considered that the damage to the top floor en 
suite bathroom was minimal and easily resolved. He said that RSA had initially sent an 
engineer to stop the leak in the ground floor cloakroom, but the engineer said a different 
team was needed to fix it as he was just an emergency plumber. Mr A didnt think this 
indicated a wear and tear issue. He thought that it was suspicious that RSA couldnt find the 
reports of its own emergency plumbers. He also felt that RSA led him to believe that he was 
covered by asking him to bring in experts to help trace and resolve the issue with the 
promise of reimbursing my expense but then deceptively backs out. When he called RSA 
back, he said it first claimed the cover didnt extend beyond emergency call-out, but then 
changed its stance and accepted it had made an error and paid compensation. Mr A 
considered that this indicated that RSA had never wanted to fix this in the first place
Mr A said that his claim about the leak in the main bathroom on the first floor was also 
accepted by RSA and that it had sent its engineers out twice, but they couldnt trace the 
leak. RSA then asked Mr A to get local plumbers in to help trace and fix the issues so it 
could reimburse him. He said that he had a policy with a separate insurer and that thankfully 
they promptly sent engineers who traced and fixed the leak and had to cut through wooden 
panels to do so. Mr A thought the leak was under tiled flooring in the bathroom and it had 
seeped through to the wooden flooring in the hallway. Eventually RSA sent the surveyor who 
provided his report. Mr A was clear that by the time RSAs surveyor had inspected the 
damage in the main bathroom, it was dry as the leak had been stopped by his other insurer. 
Mr A thought it was nonsensical that RSA had accepted the claim for leak damage on the 
top floor but not on the other two floors. He said that the underlying issue was the same and 
yet the exclusion clause wasnt applied by RSA in the case of the top floor damage but was 
in the other two cases. Mr A also complained about the time taken between his reporting of 
the issue and the date on which RSA sent its surveyor. He said that the delay led to further 
damage. Mr A concluded that the damage was caused by single events which RSA didnt 
attend to in a timely manner and that hed called RSA several times complaining about the 
damage its delay was causing. He said that mould could appear rapidly and in any event 
hed pursued the matter promptly. He considered that the mould had appeared due to RSA 
taking too long to process his claim.
I now turn to RSAs response to Mr As complaint and its surveyors report. As to the 
downstairs toilet, the surveyor had noted extensive signs of mould behind the cistern and rot 
to the skirting board and boxing which indicates the issue has been ongoing for a long period of time. RSA said it turned the claim down due to lack of mitigation by Mr A. It noted that a 
plumber had attended the property in August 2020, isolated the toilet, and advised Mr A not 
to use it until hed had it repaired and this hadnt happened. Its notes indicated that there had 
been an earlier claim relating to a blocked toilet and that this had leaked. It implied this may 
have caused damage to flooring and skirting boards in the ground floor cloakroom.
 
Regarding the main bathroom on the first floor of the property, the surveyor noted rot and 
mould to the skirting boards, a section of the wall near the door and on the window ledge. 
The surveyor thought that the damage had been caused by general use. Damage to the 
bath panel was also noted due to the trace and access work carried out by Mr As separate 
insurer. The surveyor also noted damage to the landing architrave and raising of the 
laminate floor outside the bathroom. He considered that the issue had been ongoing for a 
long period of time. RSA also turned this claim down due to lack of mitigation. 
As to the top floor en suite bathroom, RSA concluded that the shower had been leaking for 
some time due to the mastic failing which has caused a gap which has allowed the water to 
escape which has caused damage to the wall and skirting board. It considered however that 
the work would cost less that Mr As excess of £350. 
RSAs notes also indicated that it had asked Mr A to contact the insurer which carried out the 
works in the main bathroom to obtain a report confirming the trace and access works and 
confirming the damage caused. There is unfortunately no indication that any report has been 
since provided by Mr As second insurer.
I have carefully considered Mr As complaints about the way in which RSA handled his 
claims and have dealt with them under three separate headings. Its most unfortunate that 
there is a lack of evidence and photographs from RSAs home emergency team detailing the 
extent of the damage present at the time when they viewed the first-floor main bathroom.  
Its also most unfortunate that theres a lack of evidence from Mr As separate insurers 
detailing the extent of the damage at the time they stopped the leak in main bathroom. Its 
appreciated that Mr A was unhappy about the surveyors input, however the only available 
expert evidence is that of this RSA surveyor who visited three months after Mr As claims.
Ground floor cloakroom and toilet
Ive noted that there has been a mention of staining on the ceiling of this room and I consider 
it likely that this was caused by the leak in the main bathroom. There is no evidence however 
that the damage to skirting boards in this ground floor room was caused by a major leak 
from above, and it was more likely to have been linked to the ground floor toilet itself. Its not 
clear whether the toilet is yet to be fixed.
The damage appears to consist of rot to the skirting board and boxing. I note that RSA 
declined this claim on the basis of wear and tear. It didnt consider that the damage was 
caused by a single sudden event and that Mr A hadnt mitigated against the loss. Im 
required to look at the available evidence and decide the most likely explanation for the 
damage on the balance of probabilities. I agree with Mr A that the presence of mould doesnt 
necessarily mean that a problem had been going on for a long time. However rotting skirting 
boards and boxing does indicate a long-term problem. I cant say that RSA was unfair or 
unreasonable in concluding that the damage wasnt caused by a single escape of water 
event. The available photographic evidence shows on the balance of probabilities that the 
problem was likely to have been continuing for a considerable period and had gradually 
been getting worse. Its entirely possible for instance that it was linked to the previously 
reported blocked toilet. In the absence of any persuasive evidence to the contrary, I cant 
say that the damage was covered by the policy or that the delay in RSA sending its surveyor 
was responsible for this damage. The photographic evidence from the emergency plumber shows that the wall behind the toilet was already black with mould at the time he attended 
and appeared to have been there for a lengthy period of time. I cant therefore say that RSA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining this claim.
First floor main bathroom
I note Mr As evidence of the raising of the laminate floor covering outside the bathroom 
door. I also note RSAs evidence that there was rot and mould to the skirting boards, a 
section of the wall near the door and on the window ledge. The photographic evidence 
supports both observations. The decision must therefore be reached in the absence of 
detailed evidence as to what Mr As separate insurers saw when they fixed the main 
bathroom leak, exactly what work they carried out and their opinion whether the damage had 
been caused by a single escape of water or by gradual wear and tear or general use.
RSAs surveyor was clear that the damage had been ongoing for a long period of time. In the 
absence of alternative expert evidence, Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that 
the photographic evidence also supports the viewpoint that there was long standing, pre-
existing and gradually caused damage. As the leak had been fixed by Mr As separate 
insurer, I also cant say that the delay in RSA sending its surveyor was responsible for this 
damage. Its also unlikely that the damage to the bathroom door frame was related to an 
escape of water connected to the toilet or bath. In the absence of persuasive expert 
evidence to the contrary, I therefore cant say that RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining this claim.
Top floor en suite bathroom
In this case, RSA didnt contend that the damage here came within one of the general 
exclusions and I agree with Mr A that RSAs approach is inconsistent in this regard. RSA 
considered that the damage was covered in principle and provided an estimate for the cost 
of repairs. The estimate mirrors Mr As evidence that the damage was minor and easily 
resolved. As Mr A had agreed to pay the first £350 of any successful claim, despite the 
apparent inconsistency, I cant say that it acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner by 
saying that the cost was less than the excess amount and in declining the claim.
Other complaint elements
I note that another element of Mr As complaint is that he considered that RSA had led him 
to believe that it had accepted his claims, but then backed out of its agreement after hed got 
a leak fixed by a separate insurer. I can understand that Mr A might feel that he was 
encouraged to think that his claim would be paid out. However, its standard insurance 
practice for a home emergency service to deal with immediate emergencies, to recommend 
that the policyholder phones around to find someone to fix the problem and to carry out 
substantive repairs. Its also standard practice for the building insurer to send a surveyor to 
report on damage. An insurer will always need to decide whether it will pay out on a claim 
and to properly assess it before a settlement decision is made. I appreciate that Mr A will be 
disappointed by the process, however, having listened carefully to the relevant telephone 
calls between Mr A and RSA, I cant say that RSA provided any firm commitment to pay out 
the claim or lead him to believe that he would be covered for all damage in all events.
As to compensation paid by RSA, I note that it paid Mr A modest amount of compensation 
(£25) for a delay in logging the complaint in November 2020 and in providing certain 
incorrect information about trace and access. This is however within the compensation levels 
which we expect to see in the case of relatively minor administrative errors of this nature. I 
cant therefore say that RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering this sum.Its my role to consider and if possible, to settle disputes between parties and to consider the 
evidence in an impartial manner. The role also requires me to determine complaints on the 
basis of whats likely to have happened where the facts are disputed and on the evidence 
which the parties provide to this service. However complainants may also pursue matters 
through the courts if they do not accept the conclusion of this process. 
I appreciate that this decision will be frustrating for Mr A. The policy must be considered in 
the light of the available evidence however and its terms and conditions are central to any 
claim. Here, I cant say that the terms and conditions of the policy were applied unfairly or 
unreasonably by RSA. In conclusion therefore, and on the balance of probabilities, I cant 
say that RSA has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in declining Mr As claims.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr As complaint and I dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman