DRN-3465601
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) has handled his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to AWP also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr T booked a trip abroad, travelling on 2 August 2019 and returning to the UK on 29 April 
2020. He purchased a travel insurance policy, insured with AWP, to cover this trip. Mr T 
travelled to his destination as planned.
By 28 April 2020, Mr T had become aware that his return flight had been cancelled. This was 
as a result of the ongoing situation with the Covid-19 pandemic, with lockdowns being 
enforced across the country he was in and the borders closing. He contacted AWP in order 
to find out what he could claim for under the policy and received a response to say he would 
be contacted within five to seven working days.
 
Mr T didnt return to the UK until October 2020 and incurred additional accommodation and 
living expenses during his extended stay. He also had to purchase a new flight to get back 
home. As he hadnt received a reply to his previous email, he contacted AWP again in 
December 2020 to complain and to ask about making a claim for the costs he had incurred. 
Mr T sent further correspondence over the next few months but didnt receive a response  
so in April 2021 he brought his complaint to our service. Mr T then received a response from 
AWP in which it advised that there was no cover under the policy for the expenses he 
incurred whilst abroad.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that AWPs decision to decline the claim 
was fair. However, she found that there were delays in assessing Mr Ts claim and advising 
him on the cover under the policy. She recommended that AWP pay Mr T £200 in 
compensation to reflect the delays in handling the claim. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr T held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. Under the 
heading Cancellation or curtailment charges  section 1 the policy says it will provide cover 
for curtailment which it describes as You cut Your journey short (curtail) after it has 
begun. 
In addition to this, the policy includes a list of general exclusions which apply to all sections 
of cover. In this section it says that it doesnt provide cover for any claim arising from or 
relating to any epidemic or pandemic.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr T had to make alternative arrangements to travel back to the UK when his airline 
cancelled his original return flights. The policy does provide cover for curtailment or cutting 
short your trip. However, Mr T didnt cut short his trip  in fact he returned back to the UK 
five months later than originally planned. The policy is clear that cover is only provided for 
those who cut short their journey - there isnt any mention of cover for situations where 
additional costs are incurred by coming home after the original return date. 
Im also aware that the policy has a general exclusion relating to any claims arising from or 
relating to an epidemic or pandemic. Mr T has told us that the air and seaports were closed 
and there were lockdowns in place in the country he was visiting as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a pandemic on 11 
March 2020. As the cause of Mr Ts additional expenses arose from the Covid-19 pandemic, 
there is no cover for his claim.
I can appreciate that this was an incredibly stressful situation for Mr T and Im in no doubt 
that what happened was entirely outside his control. However, no insurance policy can cover 
every eventuality, and on this occasion, Im persuaded that there is no cover for Mr Ts 
claim. Im satisfied that AWPs decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on the 
policy terms and conditions.
Customer service and claims handling
Mr T has complained about the lack of contact from AWP in relation to his enquiries and his 
claim. He first contacted AWP in April 2020 while he was still abroad. He received what 
appeared to be two standard automatic email replies which acknowledged receipt of his 
enquiry with one stating that he would receive a response within five to seven working days. 
This never happened. From December 2020 until April 2021, Mr T made numerous attempts 
to contact AWP but still didnt receive any meaningful response. It wasnt until May 2021 that 
Mr T received a reply in relation to his claim. Our investigator recommended AWP paid £200 
to compensate him for the delays in handling his claim.
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Mr T. It was over a year from his 
first contact before he was told that he wouldnt be receiving reimbursement of his expenses 
 and Im aware this was not an insignificant sum. So, I do think AWP could have contacted 
Mr T a lot sooner to let him know the likely outcome of his claim. 
But I do also need to take into consideration that this was an unprecedented situation and 
Covid-19 was having a significant impact on the travel insurance industry. So, I dont think it 
is unreasonable that this would have had some impact on the normal levels of service 
provided. 
Ive thought about this point carefully and considered the impact that this delay had on Mr T 
and his claim. And whilst Mr T has clearly been inconvenienced by this delay, I dont think 
that earlier notification of the lack of cover for such a situation would have meant he wouldnt 
have incurred these costs. Mr T would still have had to pay his living expenses until he was 
able to return home and he would also have needed to purchase a new flight. Mr T has also said that the delay meant he was unable to pursue other avenues of 
reimbursement as the deadline for such claims had passed. I appreciate his point of view, 
but Mr T could have sought reimbursement elsewhere at any point during this time  he 
wasnt prevented from doing so as a result of AWPs lack of contact.  
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that a sum of £200 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate Mr T for the delays in handling the claim.
Putting things right
AWP needs to pay Mr T the sum of £200 as compensation for the delays in responding to 
his enquiries about his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Im partially upholding this claim.
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman