DRN-3967565
The complaint
Miss G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) failed to inform her about 
chargeback timescales and wont refund £5,000 she says she lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Clydesdale could have delayed the payments while concerns about the 
payee were discussed with Miss G.
So, I would need to be satisfied that the merchant (E) was operating a scam at the time 
the disputed payment was made in November 2020 in order to expect Clydesdale to 
have done anything further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain 
high-risk investment traders (such as CFD merchants) may use sales methods or 
communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Even so, not all complaints to us 
involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these 
businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily 
mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning 
list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there 
were no warnings about E at the time these payments were made. In fact, the broker 
was regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) at the time 
and therefore authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK under the 
Temporary Permission Regime.
So, overall Im not persuaded the investment firm can be said to have been fraudulent or 
operating a scam at the time in question. As a result, Clydesdales obligation to intervene 
wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Miss Gs investments returning a loss 
based on market performance. But Clydesdale isnt required to protect its consumers 
from the risk of financial loss due to investment advice or bad bargains.Therefore, I dont 
consider it acted unfairly by failing to intervene in these payments.
I appreciate that the FCA stopped E from offering CFDs to UK customers and issued a 
supervisory notice on 14 May 2021 due to its concerning sales and marketing practices. 
And I also understand that some of Es senior representatives have since been arrested. 
But even if I were to accept that E was likely operating a scam at the time, and that 
Clydesdale should have intervened to ask questions about the payments, there would 
have been very little to suggest that the investment firm was scamming Miss G, given it 
was regulated at the relevant time. So, any warning from Clydesdale to carry out further 
research on the investment firms legitimacy would have been unlikely to yield any 
results that would have ultimately prevented the payments from being made.
Miss G is also unhappy because she says that Clydesdale didnt manage her 
expectations around the 120-day timeframe she had in which to provide evidence to 
submit a chargeback claim. She reported the fraud to Clydesdale on 19 November 2020, 
at which point the bank asked her to send over any evidence she had to support the 
claim. However, by the time she sent the evidence back to Clydesdale, the 120-day time 
limit had elapsed, and the bank refused to pursue a chargeback claim. 
I appreciate Miss G may not have been informed of the 120-day timeframe. But during 
the call she had with Clydesdale on 19 November 2020, I can see that it told her she 
wouldnt be eligible to make a chargeback claim with Mastercard in any event, as the 
payment was associated with an investment. This is correct, as Mastercards scheme 
does not consider claims about being unable to withdraw funds from trading accounts, 
and the scheme doesnt provide dispute resolution options for victims of alleged fraud. I 
understand that Clydesdale nonetheless said it would review any evidence Miss G had in 
any event. But given there was no reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding in 
these circumstances, I dont think the bank acted unfairly by failing to inform Miss G of 
the 120-day timeframe, as it had already managed her expectations by saying a 
chargeback would not be possible. 
Finally, Im also aware that Miss G raised concerns about Clydesdales handling of her 
fraud claim and subsequent complaint. And I acknowledge that it couldve handled things 
better, such as the time it took to conclude its investigation, which the bank itself has 
conceded in its final response. However, Clydesdale has already offered £100 
compensation in recognition of its poor handling of matters. I understand the experience 
would have been frustrating for Miss G, but having considered the likely impact of 
Clydesdales handling, Im satisfied that £100 represents fair compensation in these 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking it to make any further award. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Miss G, and Im sorry to hear about the 
money she has lost. However, Im not persuaded there is any fair and reasonable basis in 
which to hold Clydesdale responsible for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman