DRN-4153260
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was given unsuitable advice by TenetConnect Limited trading as 
Tenet Network Services to transfer his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He says the recommendation didnt reflect his goals, and it wasnt explained to him 
that the SIPP would be invested through a platform which required him to have an 
independent financial adviser (IFA).
Mr I dealt with an appointed representative of Tenet but Ill refer to Tenet throughout, as the 
representative acted on its behalf.
What happened
Mr I contacted Tenet in July 2021 seeking advice. He said he was concerned about his 
pension funds being eroded by inflation. He was also concerned about charges.
Mr I had a meeting with Tenet where he discussed what he was looking for. The meeting 
notes record that if a recommendation was made, this would be for an adviser-led product, 
with ongoing adviser charges.
There followed various discussions over the following months, including an assessment of 
Mr Is attitude to risk and his retirement needs. In November 2021 Mr I completed a fact find 
document, together with Tenets client agreement, which set out the services and charges to 
be provided.
Tenet issued a suitability report in January 2022, recommending that Mr I move his pension 
to a SIPP with a new provider. The report set out the reasons for the advice.
The pension was transferred to the SIPP that month. But Mr I then contacted Tenet saying 
he was concerned about the economic outlook. There was some discussion about his 
concerns but Tenet reassured him and said it still thought the recommendation was suitable.
Mr I said he would draw a line under his concerns and leave Tenet to manage his funds. 
However, he contacted Tenet again soon after, requesting a withdrawal of £16,500 to cover 
his expenses for the year. And he said he was concerned he didnt have funds ringfenced for 
the following three years income.
Tenet offered to review his investments and issue a new suitability report with a hybrid 
solution. But before this was done, Mr I said he was going to move some funds to cash to 
cover four years income, and was going to switch his pension to one that was investor-led 
so he could deal with it himself. Tenet said it would deal with the transfer on an execution
only basis and remove itself as his adviser.
Mr I then complained about the advice Tenet had given, saying the investments were not 
suitable and he had never been told the SIPP required him to have an IFA. Tenet didnt think 
it was at fault, and said the advice was suitable for Mr I.
When he then referred his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said:
Although Mr I said he made it clear he needed funds for the next four years, that 
wasnt recorded as the agreed strategy; while the discussions had set out the income 
he would like, he hadnt specified earmarking funds for four years. What was agreed 
was that this would be discussed in the next financial year.
Funds were invested in a growth portfolio where the documents say funds should be 
seen as longer term and Mr I said that wasnt suitable when he would need income 
during that period. But the five year timescale is guidance, not a rule. Everything was 
set out in the documents and he was happy with it.
Tenet was willing to review the make-up of investments but Mr I went ahead and 
withdrew funds without waiting.
As no agreement had been reached, the complaint was passed to me to determine. I issued 
a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I set out my reasons as 
follows:
Tenet had to consider Mr Is financial circumstances and needs, and recommend something 
that was suitable for him, taking into account his attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Tenet set out its recommendations in the suitability report. It had assessed Mr Is attitude to 
risk and capacity for loss and concluded that his attitude to risk should be assessed as 5  in 
other words, balanced. Tenet says the investments were in line with this.
Mr I complained that he wasnt told the SIPP would require him to have an IFA and this isnt 
what he wanted. But it was noted that he didnt feel comfortable trying to manage 
investments  he wanted to enjoy retirement without having to worry about the pension and 
wanted professionals to take care of it. He elected the Prime Service which included an 
annual review and a professionally managed portfolio with rebalancing, regular updates and 
access to an adviser as required. The documents clearly said the pension required him to 
have an IFA. Im satisfied it was made clear he would be provided with an ongoing service 
and the SIPP would be dealt with by an IFA on his behalf. So Im not minded to uphold this 
aspect of his complaint.
With regard to the advice itself, Tenet recommended the SIPP for a number of reasons, 
including:
it would provide a professionally managed portfolio with better returns and a wider 
range of investments to choose from;
it would allow full access to pension freedoms and flexibility;
as he wanted them to manage his pension, if he remained with his existing provider it 
would have to charge him directly whereas with the SIPP the charges could be taken 
from the funds;
it was likely he would need to withdraw more money in the early years but this would 
reduce once the state pensions came into payment.
Mr I had said at the outset that he was concerned about the effect of inflation eroding the 
value of his funds  indeed, that was the reason why he sought advice. Tenet assessed his 
attitude to risk and researched various options. I consider there were valid reasons for 
recommending the SIPP as it would allow him access to a wider range of investments and 
the flexibility he wanted to be able to be able to drawn down funds when he needed to, to 
provide an income. The recommendation would meet his wish to outperform inflation and 
realign with his attitude to risk, with lower costs compared to changing the investments with 
existing provider. So I think moving to the SIPP was suitable.
But all of the investments were rated at between 4 and 6. While thats in line with Mr Is 
attitude to risk, Mr I was near to retirement age and needed access to the funds to provide an income for the following four years.
The suitability report said Mr I would withdraw a lump sum at the beginning of the tax year to 
cover a years expenditure and Tenet would review this at that point and provide a 
recommendation on how to meet his income requirements. But a key point here is whether it 
was reasonable to put everything in funds that were aimed at being invested over a number 
of years. All the investments say they are aimed at growth over a longer period  either three 
to five years, or five years or more; and that they may not be appropriate for short-term 
investment or for investors who plan to withdraw their money within 5 years. The risk level 
is based on the assumption they will be kept for five years and if sold before then, the risk 
may be different.
In those circumstances it would be reasonable to expect that some of the funds would be 
invested in lower risk, rather than investments that were intended for the longer term. Mr I 
needed access to some of the funds within a few months and there was clearly a risk that 
having to remove funds in such a short timescale might lead to a loss. Even if Mr I agreed to 
the investments initially, Tenets role was to consider what was suitable for someone in his 
circumstances. It wasnt suitable to invest everything in this way.
Mr I says he was forced to sell investments to ensure he had this money in cash to cover 
four years worth of drawdown and he suffered a loss of £3,550.24 as a result of having to 
sell at that point. While it may have been suitable to invest some of the funds in lower-risk, 
more accessible investments (perhaps fixed rate bonds) rather than cash, I can understand 
why Mr I was concerned and wanted to ensure he had funds available. Its difficult to say 
what would have happened if suitable advice had been given. But I can say that by selling 
the investments at that point Mr I suffered a loss, which hes been able to quantify. In the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think a fair solution would be to compensate him for 
that loss.
Mr I has also asked for a return of the set up fees he paid. Even if the choice of investments 
wasnt suitable, I think the advice to move his pension to a SIPP was appropriate and there 
would have been fees to pay in any event. So I dont consider it fair for those fees to be 
refunded.
For these reasons, I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Tenet to pay 
compensation of £3,550.24, together with simple interest at 8%.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mr I replied to say the losses from the need to sell down funds to cover his drawdowns was 
correct at £3,550.24 and he agreed that amount was fair. 
He then made some additional comments. I wont set them out in full but they include:
There was nothing in the documents saying he had to use an IFA for the SIPP. Even 
though he had indicated he wasnt happy initially making financial decisions, that 
doesnt mean he wouldnt have considered it in future
After the initial investment he kept asking the adviser what was going to happen to 
the four years worth of drawdown money he needed. The adviser said he didnt 
know but would think of something at the end of the financial year. When he found 
the investments were all for longer periods of five years or more he realised he 
needed to safeguard funds as he would suffer financial hardship otherwise. 
Tenet did offer to review things but said it would need to sell all his investments, 
which would have caused a large loss. He asked to move the funds to another 
platform, which was investor-led, as that allowed him to transfer the investments 
without having to sell them first.The losses are in fact higher than £3,550.24. As this has been going on a long time 
he doesnt wish to delay it further but would like to point out the situation he was left 
in.
The fees of £750 should be refunded. He has been told by the original provider there 
was no charge for transferring to another platform. And bearing in mind how poorly 
he was advised he feels aggrieved at having to pay the adviser.
Tenet has also replied with a number of comments. The key points include:
Mr I had been drawing down a lump sum each year to meet his needs. No 
agreement was made with him about how to meet his income needs for the following 
tax year  that was outside the scope of this advice and was to be reviewed 
separately in several months time, once the need arose.
A lot of time was spent ensuring the selected funds were all in line with Mr Is attitude 
to risk. While the provisional decision argues that some funds should have been 
ringfenced, a key concern for Mr I was the impact of inflation. The investments met 
his need to outperform inflation.
Mr Is complaint seems to have been triggered by the markets not performing well in 
early 2021, which is not something his adviser can be held responsible for.
Whilst the investments would typically be aimed at growth over a number of years, 
this didnt prevent Mr I from accessing small amounts of money in the short term.
Mr I has reported a loss of £3,550.24 but the loss was brought about by his own  
actions, not the advisers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further comments carefully, they dont lead me to change my 
provisional decision. 
Im satisfied the advice to move the pension to the SIPP was suitable and the documents did 
set out that Mr I would need to use an adviser for the chosen SIPP. Neither party has raised 
any new evidence to lead me to a different conclusion on these points. 
I appreciate Tenet intended to review the investments early in the new tax year. But I dont 
think that means it could avoid considering where the funds were invested in the meantime. 
And choosing funds in line with his attitude to risk wasnt the only consideration when 
considering what was suitable for someone in Mr Is circumstances. 
Bearing in mind he would need access to funds within a few months, it wasnt suitable to 
invest everything in longer-term investments aimed at three to five years. Tenet should have 
considered leaving some funds more readily available, so that when it came to review Mr Is 
income needs a few months later there would be funds available for this purpose. Having 
everything in longer-term investments inevitably led to a risk of there being a loss when 
some funds needed to be withdrawn so soon. In Mr Is circumstances, that wasnt suitable.
With regard to the fees, my view remains that the advice to move his pension to a SIPP was 
appropriate and there would have been fees to pay for advice about this in any event. So I 
dont think those fees should be refunded.
For these reasons and the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think it was 
suitable to advise Mr I to invest everything in funds intended for longer-term investments. A 
fair outcome is to compensate him for the loss he suffered at the time.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct TenetConnect Limited trading as 
Tenet Network Services to pay compensation to Mr I of £3,550.24, together with simple 
interest on that sum at 8% from the date he sold his investments to the date of settlement.
If TenetConnect Limited trading as Tenet Network Services considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman