DRN-3825946
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited when he 
claimed on his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H fell and suffered a serious brain injury which led to him being admitted to a hospital as 
an emergency inpatient. He needed inpatient treatment for a long period of time.
Mr Hs wife contacted AXA to see what support he could access via his private medical 
insurance policy once he was entering the rehabilitation phase of his treatment. Initially she 
says she was told Mr H didnt have a policy and, when the policy was located, she was given 
the wrong information about what the policy covered.
During an audit AXA realised that Mr H had been given the wrong information and that the 
service hed received hadnt been to the required standard. AXA sent Mr H £250 
compensation although Mr H says hes never received the cheque. Unhappy, Mr H 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr 
H wasnt out of pocket because hed been treated on the NHS. And he said AXA would have 
paid the hospital, not Mr H. He acknowledged AXA had made errors during the calls with Mr 
Hs wife. But, he noted AXA had requested medical evidence to assess the claim which 
hadnt been provided. So, he thought the £250 compensation AXA had offered was fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He reiterated that AXA 
categorically told his wife he wasnt covered for treatment and so there was no point in 
submitting a claim form. Mr H says that had AXA not made mistakes hed have been able to 
access private medical treatment and it seems unfair for AXA to financially benefit from their 
mistakes. And he said hed not received the £250 compensation yet.
In November 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint and award more compensation. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its not disputed that AXA made mistakes when dealing with Mr Hs wife  they 
accept she wasnt given the right information about the policy benefits.
Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct AXA to pay Mr H £750 
compensation. I say that because:
Mr H had received treatment in intensive care and had a significant period of 
rehabilitation ahead of him. His wife was told there was no cover for 
physiotherapy and hed need to use the NHS or fund treatment himself. 
That wasnt right as the policy did cover physiotherapy as an in-patient or 
day- patient. This was relevant to Mr H because he was going to receive in-
patient treatment as part of his rehabilitation.
As Mr H was told he didnt have cover he had treatment as an in-patient on 
the NHS. So, Mr H wasnt able to benefit from the private treatment he pays 
for.
Mr Hs wife was told to send a clinic letter with information so that AXA could 
provide her with further information. But when she called back, she was told it 
wasnt covered at all. So, I can understand why further medical information 
wasnt provided as Mr Hs wife had been told there was no cover.
AXA says that, had that further information been provided, theyd have asked 
for more information. Theyve also said there were general exclusions which 
would have been relevant to the claim. But, as Ive outlined above, Mr Hs 
wife had been told there was no cover and so I dont think it is reasonable to 
conclude she should have provided further information.
I cant fairly conclude that its most likely Mr Hs claim would have, ultimately, 
been covered by AXA. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say AXA 
should pay an equivalent sum to the claim value to Mr H as its difficult to 
calculate what AXA would and wouldnt have covered. And, in any event, 
Mr H received his treatment on the NHS which means he isnt out of pocket 
financially for his treatment.
Mr H was very unwell and, had he been given the right information, hed have 
at least had the opportunity to explore making a claim on the policy or to 
provide more information about the circumstances of his accident.
I think this was a serious failing by AXA and has caused Mr H to experience 
distress and inconvenience. I can understand how upset and frustrated Mr H 
must have been to find out a month later that hed been given the wrong 
information  by that time it was too late as Mr H had already received 
treatment on the NHS. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account the 
nature and severity of Mr Hs injury and the nature of the policy benefits that 
he was seeking to access.
I dont think £250 is enough to put things right in the circumstances of this 
case. Mr H wasnt able to rely on AXA at a time when he needed their help 
and support the most. Hes explained that hes been left feeling mistrustful of 
AXA and I can understand why he feels let down by the claims process in the 
circumstances of this case. I think total compensation of £750 more fairly 
reflects the poor service Mr H received.
In reaching my decision Ive taken into account that its unclear, based on the 
available evidence, whether the claim would have been successful or not. But 
I still think Mr H should have been given the right information about the policy 
benefits at a critical time in his recovery and rehabilitation.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put things right by paying Mr H £750 compensation for the wrong 
information his wife was given during the call about the policy benefits. I think this 
has caused him distress and inconvenience for the reasons Ive explained.AXA responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings. They also offered 
Mr H a further £2000 compensation. In effect, this treated Mr H as if hed purchased 
additional NHS cash benefit cover and paid him the maximum benefit that would have been 
available under that cover option. 
Mr H accepted my findings but asked to clarify the amount as hed not received the cheque 
for £250. He also queried whether the figure of £250 would be paid in addition to the £750 Id 
referred to and the additional £2000 AXA had offered. Our investigator explained Mr H would 
be receiving a total of £2750 as my award was inclusive of the £250 AXA had initially offered 
him.
So, I now need to make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA and Mr H accepted my provisional decision. So, theres no reason for me to reach 
different conclusions about the outcome of this complaint to those which I set out in my 
provisional decision.
However, AXA has offered Mr H more compensation following my provisional decision, 
which Mr H has accepted. So, Ill be directing AXA to put things right in a slightly different 
way.  
Putting things right
AXA needs to put things right by paying Mr H a total of £2750 compensation for the wrong 
information his wife was given during the call about the policy benefits. I think this has 
caused him distress and inconvenience for the reasons Ive explained.
The figure of £2750 includes the compensation of £250 AXA offered Mr H before he 
complained to our service. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman