DRN-2085746
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice he received from The Royal Bank of 
Scotland (RBS) to transfer his pension with the police force to a personal pension. He says 
that if a comparison of benefits to be paid in the event of drawing his pension through 
serious ill health had been made, it would have been clear that the transfer shouldnt havent 
happened. 
He wants compensation for the loss hes suffered in not being able to draw an index linked 
pension from his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).   
What happened
Mr C had been a member of the police force and its OPS for 11 years up to 1986.
In 1991, while arranging a loan through RBS, Mr C says he was advised to transfer his 
deferred OPS benefits into a personal pension  which he agreed to do as he says he was 
told he would be better off. 
In 2000 RBS reviewed its advice to transfer Mr Cs pension under the industry wide 
pensions review. It said that, in accordance with the regulators guidance, it identified that 
its advice hadnt been suitable and calculated Mr C had suffered a potential loss of £6,915 
which it paid into his personal pension. It also identified that he had a higher level of life 
cover within the OPS if hed died before retirement. So it arranged a policy for £36,000 to 
cover the shortfall. 
Mr C signed to say he agreed to the redress on 25 November 2000.
In 2019 Mr C complained to RBS about the original advice. He said that he wasnt fully told 
about the benefits he would be giving up when he transferred. He said this was especially 
true of the position in 2002, after he had major surgery, when he thought he would he would 
have received greater benefits from the OPS. He said the personal pension had been mis 
sold and he wanted compensation. 
RBS said that it had fully reviewed the transfer under the pensions review guidelines in 
2000 and had paid redress to cover the potential loss into Mr Cs existing plan. So it said 
Mr C ought to have been aware of a cause to complain soon after he was made aware of 
RBSs offer. It said he should have complained within three years of being told to consider 
the offer - which would have been November 2003. So RBS said Mr C had brought his 
complaint outside of the time limits allowed.  
Mr C wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked 
into matter. First, he thought the complaint had been brought in time and was one that we 
could consider. 
Then he looked at the review that RBS carried out and said that he thought it had been 
conducted in accordance with the regulators guidelines under the industry wide pensions 
review. He said he could see no obvious errors and didnt think RBS was obliged to review 
the transfer again as it had always been intended to be a one-off exercise.
Mr C didnt agree. He made the following points:
His OPS would have paid out at the maximum of 30 years service and been index 
linked from 2002, because of his serious ill health.
The life insurance that was added by RBS as part of the compensation in 2000 only 
covered him in the event of death  not ill health. He thought this indicated that RBS 
was aware of the shortfall in the ill health provision of its plan in comparison with the 
OPS. 
RBS didnt conduct a review comparing the two pensions in the area of ill health 
provision.
Mr C wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for a 
review. But Mr C also wanted to confirm that, having researched the matter in more detail, 
he accepted that the OPS wouldnt have paid him a maximum service pension when 
suffered serious ill health as he was no longer a member of the OPS. But he did believe that 
the scheme would have paid an index linked pension at age 50  and even if that wasnt the 
case it would have paid it at age 60, which wasnt something the personal pension could 
have done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know Mr C 
will be disappointed with this outcome  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Was Mr Cs complaint made in time?
Initially RBS said Mr C had brought his complaint outside the time limits allowed. Our 
investigator looked into that matter and thought we could consider the complaint. He said 
Mr C wouldnt have had cause to complain at the time his pension was reviewed as he 
would have had no reason to question the fact that he was being compensated for 
unsuitable advice. 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
This event occurred more than six years ago  so I have to consider the second part of the 
ruling and whether Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint more 
than three years before he did complain. So I asked Mr C why he complained in 2019 and 
he explained that, having met a former colleague from the police force at that time, it was 
suggested to him that he would have received greater benefits from his police pension than 
he received by transferring. He said he then investigated the matter and found that the police 
pension would have been paid him earlier (and included index linking) due to his ill health. 
So, he thought the earlier advice he received had been unsuitable. That seems to be a 
plausible explanation and I cant find any other trigger points since 2000 that ought 
reasonably to have given Mr C cause to complain. I also agree with the investigator that I wouldnt have expected Mr C to complain about the 
advice following the redress he received in 2000. Mr C accepted the redress he was offered 
so it follows that he didnt reasonably have a cause to complain if he assumed that he was 
being compensated adequately for the earlier advice. So, I think this is a complaint we can 
consider. 
The questions around the suitability of the advice 
Theres no dispute here that RBS gave Mr C unsuitable advice in 1991. And that RBS did 
carry out a review, in accordance with the pensions review guidelines, of the transfer in 
2000. The aim of the industry wide pensions review was to draw a line under any pension 
mis-selling and put matters right at that time. It was designed to be a one-off process and 
recognise that someone might not retire for many years  as was the case with Mr C here, 
before assessing their potential financial loss. 
The review guidelines intended for all aspects of the pension to be compared including the 
various ancillary benefits that were included, so that any calculation could increase the value 
of Mr Cs personal pension to provide the same level of benefits as his OPS would have 
provided. But Mr C has contested that the pensions werent compared in respect of the 
serious ill health option, which he says would have allowed the OPS to pay him an indexed 
linked pension from age 60. 
But I havent seen any evidence, from the copy of the calculation Ive seen, that the 
comparison and subsequent calculation wasnt correct and carried out in line with the 
pensions review guidelines  thats why Mr C was given a life cover policy to make up for the 
shortfall that RBS identified in his death benefits. 
I can understand why Mr C is unhappy with the pensions review methodology and therefore 
feels RBSs calculation is incomplete. But RBS was only required to carry out the review 
once, based on the assumptions and guidelines the regulator told it to use at the time. The 
fact that these guidelines might now mean Mr C would have better off if hed retired on 
grounds of serious ill health is not grounds to redo the calculation. This was the regulators 
direction on how to resolve the mis selling problem and Im satisfied that RBS has carried 
out the calculation in accordance with the guidelines and included comparison of all the 
relevant aspects of the pension as set out by the regulator.
I have also considered whether RBS might have been aware of Mr Cs ill health when it 
advised him and whether it should therefore have paid closer attention to the possible 
outcome. But I note Mr Cs medical operation took place over 10 years after the initial advice 
was given and RBS has confirmed theres no record of any discussions about ill health on its 
fact-finding documents from the time. 
So I dont think it would be fair to say that any further emphasis should have been put on that 
factor when the advice was given. And as Ive said previously, once the review was carried 
out RBS had to fully adhere to the regulators guidelines  which Im satisfied it did here, and 
I dont think there are any obvious errors with regards to the inputting of Mr Cs information. I 
think RBS has done what it was required to do here  and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask it to redo a calculation in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman