DRN-4340006
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him and his late wife 
a Travel Pack on 15 November 2021.
Mr Y says that Barclays failed to make it clear to the late Mrs Y that the travel insurance 
included with the Travel Pack only provided cover up to the age of 79.
Mr Y says that had Barclays made them aware of this, they wouldnt have taken out the 
Pack and wouldve taken out travel insurance that did cover them for their trip.
What happened
Mr Ys late wife - Mrs Y -  attended a Barclays branch in November 2021 and mentioned that 
she was due to go on holiday with Mr Y in January 2022. The member of staff asked if she 
had travel insurance in place. She said that she didnt, so the member of staff asked if shed 
be interested in taking out a Travel Pack on her joint account with Mr Y. The late Mrs Y 
agreed to do so and said that the member of staff completed the application for her, and the 
Travel Pack was added to their joint account.
Sadly, due to a bereavement in the family, Mr Y and the late Mrs Y had to postpone their trip 
and arranged to go on their trip in February 2022 instead. Unfortunately, due to Mr Y being 
taken ill, which resulted in him going to hospital, Mr Y and the late Mrs Y had to cancel their 
trip.
Mr Y and the late Mrs Y made a cancellation claim on the travel insurance provided by the 
Travel Pack. The insurer agreed to pay the late Mrs Ys share of the claim. But declined to 
pay Mr Ys share of the claim on the basis that he was over the age of 80 when the trip was 
due to commence - and so wasnt eligible for cover.
Mr Y and the late Mrs Y complained to Barclays that the age requirements of the policy had 
not been made clear to Mrs Y during the sale of the Pack. Because of this, they say that the 
Travel Pack had been mis-sold. 
Barclays responded to the complaint and said it didnt think it had mis-sold the Pack. It said 
that the documentation provided at the time of sale made it clear that cover only applied up 
to the age of 79. Barclays also said that it sent a welcome pack to Mr Y and the late Mrs Y 
shortly after they took out the Travel Pack, and this again explained that they were not 
eligible for travel insurance cover from the age of 80.
After referring their complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the complaint 
and they concluded that Barclays had not mis-sold the Pack. The adjudicator said that she 
thought Barclays offer to pay £75 as a gesture of good will was reasonable.  
Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 August 2023, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it forms a part 
of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. I have explained why that 
is below.
I have firstly considered whether the Pack was sold on an advised or non-advised 
basis.
Barclays says that it was sold on a non-advised basis and has provided 
documentation from the point of sale which indicates that no recommendation of the 
Pack was provided.
Furthermore, the testimony provided by Mr Y and the late Mrs Y does not indicate 
that Barclays assessed whether the Pack was suitable for their circumstances or had 
actually recommended the Pack to them. So overall, I think that the Pack was sold on 
a non-advised basis.
This means that Barclays was not required to check whether the insurance benefits 
were suitable for Mr and Mrs Y. But Barclays was still required to draw the important 
information about the Pack  such as the eligibility criteria and significant or unusual 
exclusions applicable to the insurance products  to their attention during the sale. 
This was so that the late Mrs Y was able to make an informed decision about 
whether the Pack would be suitable for her and Mr Ys needs.
The late Mrs Y said that at no point during the sale was it explained that there was an 
age limit on the Travel Pack travel insurance policy. Whereas Barclays says that Mrs 
Y was provided with information, both during the sale and after, that explained that 
there was an age limit.
Having reviewed all the available evidence, I currently think that Barclays failed to 
draw Mrs Ys attention to the fact that there was an age limit applicable to the travel 
insurance, and that this ultimately led to Mr Y and the late Mrs Y incurring an 
uninsured loss.
I say this because firstly, the late Mrs Ys testimony was consistent from the outset 
that there was no mention of the age limit when the Pack was sold to her. And she 
was taking the pack out to specifically cover both her and Mr Y for a trip they were 
due to go on in a couple of months time  and only days after Mr Y had turned 80. So 
I find it plausible that, had Barclays highlighted the fact that there was an age limit on 
the travel insurance - which meant Mr Y would not be eligible for cover by the time 
they were due to travel - I dont think its likely Mrs Y wouldve proceeded with the 
sale of the Pack.
In addition to Mrs Ys testimony, I have also considered what documentation Mrs Y 
was likely given during the sale. Barclays has provided evidence to show that a 
statement of demands and eligibility letter and a welcome letter were printed locally 
i.e. in branch. So I think its likely that Mrs Y was provided with these documents 
during the sale.
Looking at the statement of demands and eligibility letter, although this confirmed 
that Mrs Y was eligible for the travel insurance  it unfortunately didnt actually 
mention that there was an upper age limit applicable to the travel insurance, or 
indeed what the age limit was.
Instead, the letter simply said that Mrs Y was eligible for cover. The only mention of 
Mr Y in the document was an indirect one, where it said that Mrs Ys nominated 
partner would be covered as he lived at the same address as Mrs Y. There was a section on the letter called restrictions on travel insurance, which listed off a number 
of limitations that applied to the travel cover. For example, it explained that it only 
provided cover for UK residents. But again, this made no mention that there was an 
age limit on the travel policy, or indeed what the age limit was.
I appreciate that the demands and eligibility letter cant reasonably have included all 
of the restrictions that might apply to the travel policy. But given that anyone over the 
age limit is no longer eligible for the travel insurance in its entirety, I wouldve 
expected that to have been included in the letter.
In terms of the welcome letter, this again made no mention of the age limit applicable 
to the travel insurance.
From what Barclays has provided, it does appear that an Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) was printed off and mayve been provided to Mrs Y 
during the sale.
However, given that I dont think the age limit had been mentioned during the sale, 
and the demands and eligibility letter had simply confirmed that Mrs Y was eligible 
for cover, I can understand why Mr and the late Mrs Y did not notice the age limit that 
was mentioned in the IPID document, or indeed thought to check to see if there was 
an age limit on the travel cover.
According to Barclays records, a welcome pack was posted out to Mrs Y after the 
sale of the Pack. But again, as I dont think it had been highlighted during the sale to 
Mrs Y that there was an age limit on the travel policy, I dont think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr and Mrs Y to check through the policy to see if there was one. The 
late Mrs Y has also said that she never received this, so its possible that she never 
got to see this document in any event.
Barclays did send a reminder to the late Mrs Y in September 2022, to point out that 
she too was also due to become ineligible for cover from when she turns 80. 
However, as this was sent well after the trip that Mr Y and the late Mrs Y had to 
cancel, this was of course too late to have made them aware that Mr Y had not been 
eligible for travel cover since about two months after the Pack had been sold to them. 
And there is no evidence to suggest that Barclays sent out a similar letter to Mr Y 
between when the Pack started and when he turned 80.
So taking all of the above into account, I dont think Barclays did enough to highlight 
the age limit that applied to the travel insurance included within the Travel Pack.
Putting matters right
Had things gone as they shouldve and Barclays had drawn Mrs Ys attention to the 
fact there was an age limit on the travel insurance, I dont think its likely that Mrs Y 
wouldve agreed to add the Travel Pack to her joint account.
Instead, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs Y wouldve taken out travel insurance cover 
elsewhere that did cover both of them for their trip.
As Ive seen no other reason why Mr Ys share of the claim wouldve been declined, I 
currently think that Barclays should pay Mr Y compensation equivalent to the amount 
of his share of the travel insurance claim (after any applicable excess has been 
deducted).
Barclays should also pay interest on the amount owed at 8% per year simple, 
calculated from the date Mrs Ys share of the claim was paid out, to the date of 
payment, less any deductible tax.
After I issued my provisional decision, Mr Ys representative responded and thanked us for 
the provisional decision and confirmed that Mr Y is happy for our service to share 
information about the insurance claim with Barclays, if necessary.Barclays responded to the provisional decision and said that it was prepared to accept the 
outcome reached in the provisional decision. Barclays confirmed that £1,296.65 had been 
paid into Mr Y and the late Mrs Ys joint account to settle the late Mrs Ys share of the travel 
insurance claim. Barclays asked Mr Y to confirm that this is the correct amount that he 
should be paid and agreed to also pay 8% simple interest, less tax, on that amount 
calculated from 8 April 2022 to the date of settlement.
Barclays also agreed to pay the £75 gesture of goodwill it had originally agreed to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, as both parties have agreed to the proposed resolution of 
this complaint, I see no reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached 
in my provisional decision.
So in summary, I think that Mr Ys Travel Pack, that hed held jointly with his late wife, had 
been mis-sold. 
Had it been made clear during the sale that Mr Y was due to become ineligible for travel 
insurance cover shortly after Mrs Y had agreed to take out the Pack, I dont think that Mrs Y 
wouldve agreed to it. Had things gone as they shouldve I think its likely that Mr Y and the 
late Mrs Y wouldve instead taken out travel cover elsewhere that covered both of them for 
the trip they were due to go on.
As such I think Barclays failure to sufficiently highlight the Travel Pack age eligibility criteria 
during the sale of the Pack led to Mr Y incurring an uninsured loss.
Putting things right
Ive seen no other reason why Mr Ys share of the claim wouldve been declined. So 
Barclays should pay Mr Y compensation equivalent to the amount of his share of the travel 
insurance claim (after any applicable excess has been deducted).
Barclays has confirmed that this amounts to £1,296.65, and Mr Y has agreed that this is the 
correct amount.
Barclays should also pay simple interest on the above amount, at 8% per year, calculated 
from the date Mrs Ys share of the claim was paid out, to the date of payment, less any 
deductible tax.
Barclays should also pay Mr Y the £75 gesture of goodwill it had previously offered.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman