DRN-3490275
The complaint
Miss N complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from PML then it seems that Miss N was approved for a loan which 
commenced 7 December 2017. It was for £3,900 of which £2,481 was used to pay off 
another loan (and that was done by PML) and the balance of £1,418 was paid to Miss N. 
The full amount of credit taken was £4,680 as it included two sets of fees added to the loan.
The total to pay after the addition of interest and fees was £9,084.60 over five years being 
60 equal instalment amounts of £151.41 each month. Miss N paid it off early in March 2020.
Miss N had started a complaint in 2019 about a different aspect of the loan but did not 
progress it after receiving the PML final response letter for that complaint. This decision 
covers the complaint about irresponsible lending by Miss N against PML. The final response 
letter for that was issued in February 2021 and she referred it to us in time but there were 
delays and the complaint was investigated in 2022.
PMLs records show that it had seen Miss Ns payslips and it had verified her monthly net 
income (including any benefits received) as just over £2,588. Her outgoings were just over 
£2,350 which included her monthly consumer credit repayments plus the new loan of 
£151.41. Those came to over £703 each month. Our adjudicator thought that
- Miss Ns credit record showed that she had been experiencing financial difficulty 
before she took the loan. Miss N had over £27,500 debt (excluding mortgage). Our 
adjudicator had noted that she had taken four new loans and two new credit cards in 
the months leading up to December 2017
- Our adjudicators calculations led him to believe that Miss Ns credit commitment 
costs alone amounted to a large proportion of her income - £1,191 a month  our 
adjudicator had noted that PML had calculated it as around £703 a month.
- in our adjudicators view, this would have left Miss N with a negative balance and so 
he thought that the loan with PML was unaffordable.
PML asked our adjudicator for his income and expenditure (I&E) calculations. It reviewed 
them and responded in detail. Here is a summary of what it has described as discrepancies 
between its calculations and our adjudicators. PML has asked me to review the complaint.
PML says that these discrepancies make up a sum of just under £422 which ought not to be 
included in the I&E calculations, and:
- taking the PML loan meant that the other loan PML paid off for Mrs N released her 
from paying that other lender just under £212 a month. The PML loan was over 
£151
- the recorded call dated 18 November 2017 demonstrates the detail in which PML 
discussed Miss Ns finances before lending
- in that call PML says Miss N confirmed that she split the mortgage cost with her 
partner, and her partner contributed to the household bills and PML says this was 
verified further in the joint bank account statements
- an insurance fee of almost £52 was due to become £34 under a new policy
- Miss N had one account with one particular (named) other lender which PML says 
should be almost £54 a month  the other account belonged to her partner. 
Similarly, with a bank loan which should be £53 whereas PML said that we have 
double counted it.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
I had a lot of documentation and recorded calls from PML relating to the earlier discussions 
between Miss N and PML up to 18 November 2017. But it became clear that Miss N had 
changed her mind about how much to borrow during the application process and so the 
recorded calls I had did not cover the decision relating to the loan Miss N actually took.  
I needed more information.
So, after I had reviewed the complaint I asked Miss N and PML for more information and for 
further recorded calls following on from the October 2017 and November 2017 calls wed 
already received. That was sent to us encrypted and our IT department released it around 
12 July 2022 and so I reviewed the whole complaint.
On 18 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision giving additional reasons why I considered 
that Miss Ns complaint should be upheld.
Miss N agreed. PML sent additional submissions as to why it disagreed which I have 
reviewed. 
Here below is my provisional decision duplicated for ease of reference for the parties. It is in 
smaller type to differentiate it from the final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 18 July 2022.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including 
all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether PML 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss N would be able to repay in 
a sustainable way? And if not, would those checks have shown that Miss N wouldve been able to do 
so?
If I determine that PML did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss N and that she has 
lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ns ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.The checks had to be borrower focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the loan 
would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss N. In practice this 
meant that PML had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss N undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss N. Checks also had to be 
proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could 
look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ns complaint.
I have understood all PMLs objections to our adjudicators assessment. I have reviewed our 
adjudicators thorough financial analysis of Miss Ns income and outgoings. I have noted that the 
accounts being reviewed by PML at the time of the loan and by our adjudicator and by me are all joint 
accounts which does complicate matters, meaning that the income and outgoings for each account 
holder, ideally, need to be identified as part of the assessment for affordability.
I have received a lot of very useful information from PML and these include comprehensive sets of 
documents and about a dozen recorded calls ranging from 20 October 2017 to 7 December 2017 
which was the date the loan was finalised. I have listened to all the recorded calls.
I have received more information and documents since our adjudicator reviewed the file and I am 
confident that Ive seen, read and heard all of the documents and calls that were used by PML at the 
time of the loan approval in December 2017.
Rather than go into the minutiae of the income and outgoings in this decision, I have chosen to issue 
a provisional decision as I plan to explain my reasons for the upholding of this complaint in a different 
way. 
I have looked at the income and expenditure figures. I have noted that PML was very particular with 
its request for documents from Miss N and the number of telephone conversations between Miss N 
and the PML representatives were extensive and thorough.
Repeating themes during those telephone conversations were:
- Miss N realised that she had a lot of outstanding debt already
-PML needed to go through every bit of household and other expenditure to ensure that they 
were halved to identify Miss Ns expenditure commitments
-PML identified all of Miss Ns debt and many discussions were had on the value of the loan, 
which debts were going to be consolidated and what that would leave Miss N with at the end of the month after paying everything off. Miss N changed her mind several times about the 
sum to take with PML which shows a positive two-way conversation between the lender and 
Miss N.
-At one point when Miss N wished to just take a £1,500 loan to pay off an overdraft, the PML 
representative had explained that doing that meant PML would have to add in all of the other 
loans and credit commitments she already had and that made it unaffordable to her on the 
PML calculations. So, this demonstrates how precise PML were being which on one level 
was positive.
-Gambling transactions were identified early on in the proceedings and were going to require 
the PML representative to complete a Rationale Form. Miss N told PML that they were her 
partners gambling transactions and not hers.
-During one of the recorded calls in November 2017, Miss N was told by the PML 
representative that on the figures she had, and with splitting of the bills, plus working out of 
those figures and with the gambling her application fell outside PMLs criteria. So, Miss N 
was asked for three months worth of bank statements because of the gambling. Miss N was 
told that a Rationale Form was going to be needed to be completed by the PML 
representative to justify the loan
-The Rationale Form was required for a second reason  because PML was calculating the 
joint bills and Miss Ns share of those household expenditure sums and that had to be 
explained on the Rationale Form
This Rationale Form was still being discussed in the 6 December 2017 recorded telephone call when 
Miss N had chosen to take the £3,900 loan and to use the PML loan money to consolidate one other 
loan plus pay off her overdraft. This was the loan that Miss N proceeded with. The PML representative 
still needed more copy bank statements in December 2017 as she was required by PML policy to 
complete the Rationale Form.
So, its highly relevant that PML was aware of the gambling, had copies of many of her bank account 
statements and had discussed with her the gambling.
Since our adjudicator assessed the complaint, I have requested and received a copy of that Rationale 
Form. I have reviewed all the bank accounts statements which PML had at the time.
My view is that on Miss Ns salary, I think it was a tight calculation when halving all the bills and 
deducting those from her personal income plus deducting her existing loan repayments. Miss N had 
extensive financial commitments which PML knew about and which our adjudicator had identified as 
well. I have reviewed those other commitments at the time as well. I do not rehearse all the figures 
here as I do not think I need to.
And I say that because the overall and obvious matter which appears not to have been factored into 
Miss Ns financial situation is the gambling. Having reviewed everything then its very clear to me that:
-the joint account ending *1689 on which there was an arranged overdraft of £3,400 was kept 
in overdraft permanently. Even to the extent that two sets of compensation for PPI paid into 
that account in September 2017 (about £3,600 and £2,100) was immediately transferred out 
to the joint account ending *5269. The *5269 account was the one into which both sets of 
salaries were paid. And on both occasions those transfers out of account *1689 left that 
account in overdraft right up to the limit again.
-that demonstrates to me that Miss N and/or her partner did not consider that £3,400 overdraft 
a debt to pay off but seemed to be approaching that as money available to spend. That 
ought to have been an alarm bell to a professional lender in my view when they had several 
thousand pounds worth of credit paid into that account and still chose to remove it to keep 
the account in overdraft.-I note that there were transfers out of that joint account *5269 to another account *3285 which 
Miss N said on one of the phone calls was her partners account. An example is £2,000 on 
28 September 2017. That shows me that Miss Ns partner did not always keep his salary in 
that joint account for the provision of bill payments.
-added to which, the gambling transactions apparent on the *5269 joint account, and from 
which most, if not all, of the household bills were paid, were not small  they were regular 
and extensive. Examples are: 11 September 2017 - £420 spent on on-line betting/gaming, 
18 September 2017 £867 spent, 23 September 2017 £2,100 spent. And these are just a few 
examples.
-and so I fail to see how a professional lender such as PML, making careful and detailed 
calculations to halve Miss Ns bill and household expenditure liability could not realise that a 
partners extensive gambling was inevitably likely to lead to that other partner not having 
enough money to pay his half of the household bills and expenditure. Which would have had 
an inevitable impact on Miss Ns ability to afford PMLs loan repayments plus her existing 
commitments.
And as I have said earlier, I have not rehearsed the figures to the extent that our adjudicator has and 
the detail with which PML has done in its response to object to our adjudicators assessment. My view 
is that all the accounts for Miss N and her partner were under stress and in the end Miss N and her 
partners joint income was not going to be able to pay for everything and sustain what appears to be 
an extensive and expensive gambling habit.
I note that PML has sent to me some copy 2020 bank statements but those are largely irrelevant as 
I am looking at a complaint relating to the approval date of 7 December 2017.
For all the reasons set out in detail by our adjudicator, plus the additional points I have elaborated on 
here, I am planning to uphold Miss Ns complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PML responded to my provisional decision (which has been duplicated above) in detail. I do 
not list all the latest PML points here. 
However, I do make it clear that I did not uphold the complaint just because of the five points 
PML has listed on the first page of its letter dated 29 July 2022 addressed to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Those five points are summaries of what it has interpreted as my 
reasons for the uphold and duplicate large parts of that provisional decision. 
I made it clear in my provisional decision that as well as looking at the adjudicators 
calculations, the original points made by PML, and having listened to all the call recordings 
and reviewed all the evidence I came to some conclusions in addition to what had already 
been said before by our adjudicator. So, I reject PMLs contention that the five points it listed 
are the only reasons for the uphold. 
One of the fresh points PML has made is that Miss N had told PML usually she received an 
annual £5,000 bonus in February and so was expecting the same in the February following 
which would have been February 2018. I do not consider it usual or responsible for PML to 
have relied on future promise of a bonus when calculating affordability.  For obvious 
reasons, that would not have been guaranteed income in the same way that a regular salary 
for an employee would be. And I do not consider it right that this future bonus payment 
would be factored into an affordability assessment. And, even if PML did consider it right to factor in the £5,000 bonus reward due in February 
2018, I make this comment  PML ought to have asked itself why Miss N needed the £3,900 
loan in December 2017 when, according to Miss N, she was due to receive £5,000 in 
February 2018. On the evidence I have, that was never looked into by PML. 
PMLs comments about the 2020 bank account statements do not lead me to alter my view. 
I have been asked to consider a complaint about the lending decision made in 2017 and so 
looking at evidence from 2020 is irrelevant. 
PMLs new points on the gambling are not persuasive to lead me to alter my view. PML has, 
essentially, said that the gambling transactions show that Miss Ns partner won more than he 
spent. That suggests that PML considered that was satisfactory to it. And PML has referred 
to a lack of returned or missed Direct Debit payments and therefore the situation Miss N was 
in appeared not to be one to cause it concern. It has summarised its position on the 
gambling as this: 
Therefore, theres no evidence to indicate that Miss Ns partners gambling spend at 
the time of the loan application was impacting their ability to maintain their financial 
commitments at the time of the loan application or during the term of the loan.
I find this a remarkable statement. And not one that persuades me to alter my view which is 
that Miss N was applying for a loan, to consolidate other debt, effectively to save about £60 
a month, while it also had evidence that her bank accounts (joint with another) showed 
evidence of extensive betting and gaming transactions. And they showed that when 
substantial credits appeared (such as the PPI payments referred to earlier) they were 
immediately used not to repay the overdraft debt of around £3,400 but likely transferred to 
be used for gambling or other uses such as paying off different debts, leaving the overdraft 
debt in place. 
The other points made in the 29 July 2022 letter to us either have been addressed in my 
provisional decision already and I have not changed my view. Or, the points made have not 
persuaded me to alter my view. 
I uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Putting things right
Miss N paid off this loan in March 2020. To settle Miss Ns complaint, I direct that PML does 
as follows:
- the fees and charges PML added to the loan when setting it up need to be removed 
from the overall figure Miss N owed to PML and a statement of account I have been 
sent shows that was £4,680. But the loan was £3,900
- the repayments Miss N made should be deducted from the £3,900 capital amount. If 
this results in Miss N having paid more than £3,900, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made until the date of settlement); *
- remove any negative payment information recorded on Miss Ns credit file relating to 
this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss N 
a certificate showing how much tax PML has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ns complaint and direct that Progressive Money 
Limited does as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman