DRN-3086250
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about an equity release mortgage, originally taken out in 2004 on the 
advice of an independent financial adviser with a lender I will call N, transferred to a different 
business in March 2012 and transferred again in February 2018 to Pearl Group 
Management Services Limited, against which this complaint has been brought.
Mrs C wants Pearl to recognise that it should have offered Mrs C a lower interest rate. 
Because she has now redeemed the mortgage, to settle the complaint Mrs C wants a 
substantial refund of the interest charged over the lifetime of the loan.
The complaint has been brought on Mrs Cs behalf by her son, but for clarity I will refer to 
Mrs C throughout.
What happened
In 2004 Mrs C, and her husband, Mr C, who has since passed away, took out an equity 
release mortgage, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser. They 
borrowed £60,000 at a fixed interest rate of 6.7% for the lifetime of the loan. In May 2007 
Mr and Mrs C borrowed an additional £7,377 at a fixed rate of 6.59%.
In common with this type of loan, no monthly repayments are due; instead compound 
interest rolls up into the loan at the rate specified in the contract. Generally, repayment of the 
loan is only required on the death of the last surviving borrower or if the borrower has to 
move into full-time nursing care. An early repayment charge may apply if the mortgage is 
repaid under any other circumstances, depending on the terms of the contract. In this case, 
there have been no early repayment charges since 2010 for the initial loan and 2012 for the 
further advance.
I am sorry to note that Mr C passed away in January 2021. It was a this point that Mrs Cs 
son first became aware of the equity release mortgage and raised a complaint with Pearl 
about it. 
The complaint was that the mortgage was mis-sold because the lender failed to recognise 
Mrs Cs vulnerability, that she lacked financial acumen and didnt take steps to ensure she 
understood the product. Mrs C also says that the interest rate  fixed for the term of the loan 
 is very high at 6.7%, which has led to the debt increasing from the amount originally 
borrowed. Mrs C believes Pearl owed her a duty of care to review her account and offer her 
borrower at lower interest rates.
Pearl didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that the loan had been sold by an independent 
financial adviser. Pearl said that if Mrs C was unhappy about the sale of the product, or the 
original lending decision, she would need to contact the financial adviser and the original 
lender.
Pearl also explained that it was under no duty to review individual customer accounts during 
the term, as the nature of an equity release mortgage is that it is at a fixed rate for the 
duration of the loan. Pearl also noted that Mr and Mrs C had, during the course of the loan, 
returned the Acknowledgement of Statement form sent out with the annual statements and 
so would have been aware from those statements that interest rate that was being charged.
Pearl clarified that the mortgage couldnt be ported to another product at a different interest 
rate. The mortgage has now been redeemed, and Mrs C has taken out a new equity release 
mortgage with a different provider at a lower interest rate.
Dissatisfied with Pearls response to her complaint, Mrs C contacted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld.
The investigator explained that the sale of the product and the original lending decision were 
nothing to do with Pearl, which had only taken ownership of the mortgage in February 2018. 
The investigator was satisfied that the loan had been administered in line with the contract 
terms, and that there was no duty for Pearl to review the suitability of the product or to 
change the interest rate.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Some further points have been made, which I summarise:
It is unacceptable that separate complaints have to be addressed to the broker, original 
lender and previous lender. Pearl provided papers relating to the mortgage and referred 
to what had happened at the point of sale, so the sale of the product needs to be 
considered.
The advantages to a borrower of a fixed rate only apply if rates rise, and is only really 
relevant during the period in which there is a tie-in with an early repayment charge.
A decent company would have reduced the interest rate and Pearl should have done 
this when it took over the debt.
Pearl is akin to a con man who charges an extra amount to resurface a driveway.
It is unfair that Pearl is allowed to exploit vulnerable people and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service should hold Pearl to account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Although I appreciate it might be inconvenient for Mrs S to have to bring separate complaints 
against the broker which sold the product and the original lender, they are separate 
businesses in their own right. I can only look at this complaint against Pearl in relation to 
Pearls ownership of the loan since February 2018. The fact Pearl provided information 
about what happened at the point of sale  including confirmation that Mr C said hed 
discussed the equity release mortgage with his children  doesnt mean Pearl is responsible 
for addressing a complaint about the sale of the product or the original lending decision.
Consequently, I will make no further comment on those issues as they dont fall within the 
scope of this complaint.Pearl took over the loan in February 2018, and administered it in line with the contract terms 
until it was repaid. Pearl isnt under any duty to review all the equity release mortgages it 
owns and advise customers if they could get a better deal somewhere else. The interest rate 
on Mrs Cs mortgage was for the lifetime of the loan, which is the industry standard for this 
type of product. In any event, Pearl doesnt offer financial advice to customers, and so does 
not have the required regulatory permissions to do this.
Overall, Ive found nothing to persuade me that there has been any maladministration by 
Pearl since it took over the mortgage in February 2018. This means that there is no basis on 
which it would be fair or reasonable to order Pearl to refund interest legitimately charged in 
line with the contract terms.
I know this isnt the answer Mrs C and her son were hoping for. In my experience of dealing 
with equity release cases, I have to say that it is not uncommon for parents to want to keep 
their finances private from their children. If Mr and Mrs C chose not to discuss this mortgage 
with their children, that was entirely their prerogative. But I can appreciate that it can come 
as a shock to family members to discover there is an equity release mortgage in place, 
particular if, as in this case, its been running for some time, because it can have an impact 
on available funds for alternative care for the borrower.
However, that doesnt mean that the contract is unfair, or that there is any basis on which I 
could find that Pearl has to pay any redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman