DRN-3075939
The complaint
Ms G complains that Nationwide Building Society treated her unfairly when she asked for a 
refund in relation to goods and services she paid for using her Nationwide credit card.
What happened
In 2019 Ms G arranged for some construction work to be carried out at her home. She 
engaged a third party builder (that Ill call L) to undertake the work - which began in 
September the same year. Ms G says she was overcharged, work was left unfinished and L 
failed to exercise the appropriate degree of skill and care. She had to pay others to put 
things right - including the following:-
repairs to flat roof due to leaks in several places and water not draining;
supply of skylights not fitted into the roof;
drainage not fitted properly causing damage;
missing or poorly fitted guttering;
insulation of flat roof;
dig out and replace tiles/paving slabs;
finish electrical work; and
repair and finish water pipes.
Ms G paid L for some of the work using her Nationwide credit card so she asked Nationwide 
to provide a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Nationwide looked into the matter and told Ms G it couldnt help. Nationwide says the work 
doesnt come within section 75 as the total cost was more than £30,000 and thats over the 
upper limit set under section 75. Nationwide considered another option  a process known 
as chargeback - but didnt think that would work as it wasnt clear that Ms G hadnt received 
the goods and services she paid for.
Ms G felt let down by the response from Nationwide and she brought her complaint to our
service. One of our investigators considered the evidence but he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He explained that Nationwide isnt obliged to raise a chargeback if it 
doesnt think there's a reasonable prospect of success. The investigator couldnt work out 
what goods and services Ms G paid for using her Nationwide card. He didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Nationwide to conclude that a chargeback probably wouldnt succeed, in 
this situation. And he couldnt fairly say Nationwide should have made a chargeback 
request.
The investigator didnt think Ms Gs claim comes within section 75s requirements either  
because thats limited to claim values between £100 and £30,000. He was satisfied that L 
gave Ms G one price and carried out all of the work at one time. He thought this was 
probably one contract that cost more than £90,000. And he wasnt persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable to require Nationwide to provide a refund or do anything further.
Ms G didnt agree. She says (in summary)
she paid for the building work using two separate credit cards and she thought this 
would provide additional cover under section 75 if something went wrong;
the work was divided into three separate contracts - consisting of a loft conversion; 
an extension and other home refurbishment - each under the £30,000 limit;
she wanted to give all the work to the same contractor but always intended for each 
part to be separate and she has a quote from a different builder which shows the 
work separated into component parts;
she paid on different credit cards to show these were separate jobs and, if this was 
one job, there would have been no need to transfer large sums of money between 
accounts - she could have just used one credit card which has a very high limit;
the three parts of the work are distinct and its not difficult to work out that she paid 
for the side extension and associated costs on her Nationwide credit card.
Ms G is disappointed with the outcome recommended by the investigator. She feels he was 
biased and not impartial and our service should do more to help. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. And I thought it was fair to let the 
parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 12 August 2021. A copy of what I 
decided provisionally and why is set out below  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im sorry to hear about the issues that Ms G had with L. I have no doubt this experience 
must have been upsetting and stressful. I want to assure Ms G that our service is 
independent and we look at complaints objectively so we dont take sides. This means I 
must treat both the business and consumer fairly and equally.
Ms G brings this complaint about Nationwide to the Financial Ombudsman Service because 
she paid L for some of the work using her Nationwide credit card. From the evidence Ive 
seen, it looks as if Ms G and L had a disagreement and L left site before the building work 
was completed. Ms G told us she had to arrange for other contractors to finish the job and 
rectify work that L did - which shes been told was sub-standard. She thinks there was a 
breach of contract on Ls part - for which Nationwide is equally liable under section 75. And I 
understand shed like Nationwide to refund her associated financial losses.
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. In doing so, Im obliged to take relevant law (amongst other things) into 
account. I think section 75 is relevant here so Ive considered that when Ive looked at 
whether Nationwide has taken appropriate steps in relation to Ms Gs complaint. I should be 
clear at the outset however that Im not deciding Nationwides liability under section 75 in this 
decision - and its not within my remit to determine any dispute that Ms G may have with L.
Section 75 claimThe requirements set out under section 75 are strict. The section says (insofar as its 
relevant):-
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
Section 75 does not apply where the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier 
has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. Nationwide says this 
was one single contract that cost over £90,000 but Ms G disagrees. She considers there 
were three separate contracts, each one costing less than £30,000.
Ive considered the paperwork provided at the time. Amongst other things, Ive seen a 
detailed seven page quotation and three documents each headed contract of work  and 
Job 1, Job 2 and Job 3 respectively. Im satisfied the quotation seems to set out all the 
work required and the materials needed in one document with one price of around £92,000. 
This document describes the work simply as loft conversion and side extension. No 
attempt has been made to split the work or the cost between three jobs. And the duration of 
the work is set at 12 weeks - with no separate timescale or work schedules for jobs 1,2 or 3. 
I think this suggests this was one single construction project.
Ive gone on to consider the documents headed jobs 1, 2 and 3. Im not persuaded these 
show that the work was split into three separate and distinct jobs either. As far as I can tell, 
the supply of goods and the building and installation works were combined over all three 
jobs. I cant see that Ms G would have been able to instruct a contractor to undertake job 
1 only and then get another to complete jobs 2 and/or 3. By way of example, the contract of 
work for job 1 is headed loft conversion but the breakdown refers to skips, toilet, health 
and safety and cleaning only. This sounds more like whats needed to set up the site, not 
convert the loft  a conclusion thats supported by information in the quotation which says 
the associated cost (of £2,400) is for general requirements and preliminaries.
I think its unlikely that £2,400 would be enough to fund the cost of a loft conversion. I can 
also see that Job 2 (headed extension) includes various loft items (such as the loft floor 
and loft beams) - which is inconsistent with these being separate jobs. And, looking closely 
at the detailed quotation, Im satisfied that the cost applied to job 2 in the contract of work 
isnt enough to pay for the construction of the extension. Likewise, the payment due for Job 
3 (headed house refurbishment) doesnt reflect the cost associated with that in the detailed 
quotation.
I acknowledge this paperwork refers to three separate payments but Im not persuaded 
these are split according to the work that would have been needed for three distinct jobs - 
the loft, side extension and house refurbishment. I dont think its unusual for builders to 
require stage payments going along, as agreed milestones in a single project are reached. I 
can see that contracts 1 and 2 say the payment in question is due at this stage and job 3 
refers to the final payment. Thats how stage payments are often described in a single 
contract and I think this suggests there was one single contract here.
Im satisfied the evidence overall indicates this was one project for work which was 
undertaken at the same time that L gave Ms G a single price for and cost over £90,000. I 
cant see that jobs 1,2 and 3 stand alone or could be undertaken separately - in terms of the 
work required and the price provided. And, whilst I accept several payments were made, I 
think these were probably stage payments for the total cost of a single construction job.I understand Ms G was keen to have the protection of section 75 when she appointed L so 
she paid using credit card. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not presently 
persuaded that this claim comes within the financial limits set out under section 75. I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Nationwide to take that into account and I cant fairly find it was 
wrong to reject her section 75 claim.
chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows a customer to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
theres an issue with goods or services they paid for using a credit or debit card. Whether a 
chargeback succeeds or not is decided under the relevant card scheme rules - which is 
VISA here. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. We generally think a financial 
business should attempt one - if theres a reasonable chance of success. But, its for the 
financial business to decide if a chargeback is likely to succeed - albeit we expect it to make 
that assessment on a reasonable basis.
Again, I want to be clear that Im not deciding on the merits of any claim that Ms G might 
have against L in this decision. Im looking instead at whether Nationwide had regard to the 
rules of the relevant chargeback scheme when it assessed the dispute and decided not to 
raise a chargeback.
For a successful chargeback under the VISA rules, Ms G had to contact Nationwide in time 
and show that shed already tried to resolve things with the supplier. As far as I can see Ms 
G did that and the dispute falls within one of the categories that can be considered under the 
VISA rules  in that she says things she paid for werent supplied and/or goods and/or 
services were defective.
Im satisfied that Nationwide spoke to Ms G not long after she first got in touch and sent her 
some dispute forms to complete and return along with any relevant paperwork. It looks as if 
Ms G sent the paperwork back along with the quotation and three job contracts Ive 
referred to above. I think Nationwide seems to have considered this but concluded that a 
chargeback probably wouldnt succeed - as there wasnt enough evidence to show that Ms 
G hadnt received what she paid for on her credit card.
I appreciate Ms G feels that was unfair - because she thinks its clear from the paperwork 
what she used her Nationwide card to pay for. But, I dont think thats what led Nationwide to 
decline a chargeback. As far as I can see Nationwide accepts Ms G made two payments to 
L on her Nationwide card for part of the total cost of the work. So, if it was clear that Ms G 
didnt get what she paid, that could be grounds for a successful chargeback. Based on the 
available information however, Nationwide didnt think it was clear that L hadnt provided 
goods and services up to the amount that Ms G paid. And, on balance, I can see why 
Nationwide reached this conclusion.
Its clear that Ms G considers L carried out some work here to a poor standard and didnt 
meet its obligations in other ways. But, shes also told us that L alleges she owes a sizeable 
amount for additional work. And, whilst I appreciate Ms G disputes that, I cant be certain 
what the outcome of this dispute might be. I understand solicitors were involved at one stage
- which suggests the arguments are not straightforward. The chargeback process isnt set up 
to resolve complex disputes. I think its more likely than not L would have defended any 
attempt at chargeback here fairly strenuously. And, taking everything Ive seen so far into 
account, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that a 
chargeback was unlikely to succeed and decline to put one forward.
I can see Ms G has been through a difficult time and I understand she feels let down by 
Nationwide and by our service. Im satisfied however that Nationwide considered a chargeback and followed the process wed expect here  in line with the relevant scheme 
rules. I cant be certain that a chargeback would not have been successful. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that 
was unlikely - based on the information available. And I cant fairly find it was wrong not to 
process a chargeback in the circumstances.
In light of my provisional conclusions, I invited both parties to think about what Id said and 
let me have any further comments and evidence by the 9 September 2021. I explained that 
Id look at all the evidence available after that and make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide hasnt objected to my provisional decision but Ms G doesnt think its fair. She 
provided a detailed response over several emails and sent some additional evidence. I hope 
Ms G will understand that Ive had to summarise what she said (below) for ease of 
reference.
I want to assure Ms G that Ive read everything she sent us, carefully. And, if I dont address 
every point that she raised, its not because I havent considered it. I have, but Im going to 
concentrate here on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
Ms G says its not unusual for a builder to do all the work but price and separate this into 
discrete jobs. She explained that another builder was her preferred choice originally to do 
this work but he couldnt for personal reasons. She sent us paperwork he provided which 
was costed and separated into different jobs. She considers thats similar to what L did. And 
she refers to another builder she used recently who also priced two separate jobs with 
separate invoices but put the total cost in one document. 
Ms G notes I made reference to legal action in my provisional decision and said I thought L 
would probably have vigorously defended a chargeback here. She says L started the legal 
process against her but didnt respond after her solicitors provided proof of the agreement 
and Ls failure to fulfil the contract. She thinks this was because L was unable to prove that 
she owed any money. Shes heard nothing from L since and understands L has filed for 
voluntary liquidation. She has however been contacted by another party who is unhappy with 
L - and she thinks there are others who were similarly affected. 
I can see that Ms G feels let down by my provisional conclusions. And she thinks the system 
is weighted in favour of financial institutions and rogue traders who exploit loopholes in the 
law. I want to assure her that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent. We look at 
each complaint that comes to us on its individual facts and merits - and we treat the parties 
equally and fairly. 
I make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable overall. I am however 
obliged to take relevant law (amongst other things) into account when I make my decision. 
Im satisfied that section 75 is relevant here. As I explained in my provisional decision, the 
requirements of section 75 are strict. And I cant fairly find its unreasonable of Nationwide to 
take these requirements into account when it considered the claim Ms G raised. 
Ive thought about what Ms G said about her experience with other builders  as well as the 
paperwork she supplied. But, Im afraid this doesnt change my mind about the agreement 
she had with L. And I remain of the view  for the reasons I set out  that Ms Gs claim doesnt come within the financial limits set under section 75 and it wasnt unfair of 
Nationwide to reject it. 
I take on board what Ms G says about L starting the legal process against her and then 
failing to respond when her solicitors defended her position. But, Im not persuaded this 
means L is unlikely to have defended a chargeback request. I cant be certain why L didnt 
pursue the matter but I think the fact L instructed solicitors in the first place suggests it was 
unlikely to agree to a chargeback request at the relevant time. I remain of the view its more 
likely than not L would have defended a chargeback. And I cant fairly find it was wrong of 
Nationwide not to raise one, in these particular circumstances. 
I realise my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms G. Im sorry to hear about 
everything shes been through and I have sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. For 
the reasons Ive stated however, I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide has treated Ms 
G unfairly or acted unreasonably. And I am not satisfied there are sufficient fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman