DRN-3432037
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc did not pay a cheque he had written. He is 
represented by his daughter.
What happened
On 22 March 2021 Mr M made a payment of £240 by cheque. A few days later the payee 
told him that the cheque had not been paid. Mr M arranged for payment to be made by 
different means, and he complained to the bank. 
The bank looked into what had happened and wrote to Mr M on 14 April 2021. It said that it 
had been within its rights to stop the cheque but acknowledged that it had not provided Mr M 
with correct information about the reasons for that. It explained that the cheque was stopped 
because it did not have Mr Ms signature on its files. It said it would make a payment of £50 
to acknowledge that. Mr Ms statement shows that £50 was credited to his account the same 
day. 
Mr Bs daughter says that the letter of 14 April was never received and that her father did not 
know about it until several months later. She referred the matter to this service and one of 
our investigators considered what had happened. The investigator thought however that 
Bank of Scotland had done enough to resolve matters and did not recommend it do anything 
more. Mr Ms daughter did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank says that it tried to contact Mr M to obtain approval to pay the cheque but was 
unable to do so. Arguably, it should have had his signature on file, so that should not have 
been necessary. 
The bank accepted that it should have explained better why the cheque was not paid and 
that it should have obtained Mr Bs signature when the problem came to light. Mr Ms 
daughter has explained that it was inconvenient to go to a branch to discuss the matter, 
especially when Covid-19 restrictions were in force. I have taken that into account. 
I accept that Mr M did not receive the banks letter of 14 April 2021. Had he done so and had 
he remained unhappy, I think he would have responded to it sooner than he did. I am 
satisfied however that it was sent and that the bank, having not received a response, 
believed it had resolved matters. 
Be that as it may, I agree with the investigator that the banks payment of £50 and the 
apology in its letter of 14 April 2021 are sufficient to resolve matters. In saying that, I note 
that Mr M was able to make the payment very shortly after the cheque was returned unpaid 
and that the bank was quick to acknowledge an error  even if its letter was not received.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman