DRN-1715218
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster) mis-sold him a fee-paying U First Gold 
packaged bank account.
Mr A says he went to an Ulster branch to take out an overdraft but, instead of getting an 
overdraft, ended up agreeing to upgrade his fee-free account to a fee-paying U First Gold 
account. Mr A says that he was suffering from poor mental health at the time and says Ulster 
took advantage of him.
What happened
Mr A opened a fee-free account on 15 July 2009. Mr A attended an Ulster branch on 30 
October 2018 and completed an application form to upgrade his account to a U First Gold 
account. 
However, as Mr As account had still not been upgraded, he complained to Ulster on 19 
November 2018 about the delay experienced. Ulster apologised for the delay, processed the 
account upgrade on 11 November 2018, and paid Mr A £30 to acknowledge the delay. A 
short time later Mr A requested that his account was downgraded back to a fee-free account. 
The downgrade was processed on 10 December 2018. Due to the short time that Mr A held 
the account, he wasnt charged any U First Gold account fees.
Mr A then submitted a complaint to say that he felt the account had been mis-sold. One of 
our adjudicators assessed Mr As complaint and concluded that Ulster hadnt mis-sold the 
packaged bank account and that even if it had, Mr A had not suffered a loss as he paid no 
account fees. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so his complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Mr A has essentially said that Ulster took advantage of his poor mental health and sold him a 
packaged bank account that he didnt need. Whilst Im sorry to hear of Mr As poor health, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that the member of staff at Ulster was aware he was 
suffering from poor health at the time, and so I cant reasonably expect them to have treated 
him any differently. 
Furthermore, I cant reasonably conclude that the member of staff took advantage of Mr As 
circumstances or pressured him into agreeing to a product he didnt want. I say this because 
Mr A complained to Ulster because it hadnt upgraded his account, a couple of weeks after 
hed applied for it to be. So I think its more likely Mr A agreed to the account because he 
wanted it, rather than because he was pressured into agreeing to something he didnt really 
want.
The evidence that Ulster has provided suggests that it identified Mr A had a need for mobile 
phone insurance and so he agreed to it for that benefit. And as that was one of the few 
benefits it did provide, selling the U First Gold account to Mr A doesnt seem to have been 
inappropriate in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr A, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, now says his mobile phone was 
only cheap and so was not worth insuring. But Im satisfied that he was aware fee-free 
accounts continued to be available (as he later asked for his account to be downgraded back 
to a free one) and that he couldve said no to changing his account if he didnt want to. And I 
appreciate that Mr A may not have gone into the branch with the intention of taking out the U 
First Gold account. But it is not unreasonable if Ulster, or for that matter any bank, wishes to 
discuss its other products with its customers.
The screen shots of Ulsters system records indicate that the key features and exclusions of 
the account were discussed with Mr A and he then chose to upgrade his account. However, 
even if Ulster didnt provide Mr A with all of the information it shouldve about the account, I 
cant see that he has lost out from being sold the account - as he was never charged to have 
the U First Gold account.
Finally, I note in his response to the adjudicator, Mr A wants Ulster to be investigated for 
what he believes it did wrong. However, Id like to explain that our service only looks into 
individual complaints. We are not the financial services regulator, so we dont have wider 
investigatory powers or the ability to fine or punish financial businesses for any potential 
wrongdoing. Therefore our service is not able to do what Mr A wants us to do about this 
issue.
As such, based on everything that Mr A and Ulster have said and provided, I dont think that 
Ulster mis-sold the U First Gold account, and I cant see that Mr A has lost out even if it had.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman