DRN-2071390
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
RBS couldnt say how it sold this PPI to Mr B. 
Mr B initially told us that hed taken the card out during a meeting at the bank and he 
complained that the cancellation terms werent properly explained and that it was suggested 
he take PPI to stand a better chance of being accepted. His concern was that he was 
charged for PPI when he doesnt believe he needed it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr B says he now thinks he already had a credit card 
before September 1998 and the PPI appeared, without his knowledge, when the credit card 
was updated. He told us that he had a good job at the time and secure employment, along 
with an endowment mortgage with the necessary cover and that he wouldnt have felt the 
need to take out additional protection, without proper discussion and clear understanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Theres only limited information. The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available 
and RBS cant confirm how this PPI was sold. But its records show that Mr B had PPI on a 
credit card that started in September 1998. So its not in dispute that Mr B was sold the PPI.
Its completely understandable that Mr B may not clearly recall events from so long ago. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B to remember exactly what happened or what was 
discussed when the PPI was set up alongside his credit card in 1998. 
This means that what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this 
complaint just based on the way Mr B says he was sold PPI. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr B wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to his account without his consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that Mr B wouldve been unaware PPI was being taken out with the card. Heres 
why I say this.
It looks to me as if Mr B couldve found PPI useful if hed needed to claim. 
And Mr B wouldve been able to see when he was paying for PPI as this showed up on his 
monthly card statements. So if the PPI hadnt been something hed asked for and he didnt 
want it, I think its more likely that Mr B wouldve taken this up with RBS at the time. I've seen 
nothing to make me think that he did that. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr B decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI 
offered and RBS added PPI to his account at his request. 
Looking at what Mr B has said and what we know about how RBS sold PPI then, I dont think 
RBS advised Mr B to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr B clear enough information so he was 
able to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if this didn't 
happen, then I have to think about whether this made any overall difference to Mr B.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Ive taken into account that his employer wouldve paid him at least 3 months full sick 
pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months if he was off work as a result 
of an accident or illness. So the PPI provided better protection than he couldve relied on 
getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr B with 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if he had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy wouldve also paid out for up 
to 12 months per claim if Mr B lost his job. 
Mr B had some existing protection set up  but that was for his mortgage. It wasnt set up to 
cover his credit card monthly repayments. And the medical insurance he mentioned provided 
a different benefit to PPI. 
It looks like Mr B had already taken other steps to ensure his financial situation was 
protected in the event of something unforeseen happening. And based on everything hes 
told us, I cant reasonably say that Mr B couldnt have benefitted from the PPI. 
So I can understand why Mr B mightve wanted PPI and why having PPI wouldve been a 
reasonable choice for him to make.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Bs case. So I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.I dont think its likely that RBS properly explained the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Mr B made a claim. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. 
I havent seen anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for him  so thats not a reason for me 
to uphold his complaint.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr B, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, given his circumstances and the benefits the policy offered him, I think its likely 
that he still wouldve taken out the policy.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this (plus some extra interest was paid to reflect a delay in payment). So I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman