DRN-1108518
complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in January 2002.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mr B bought the policy in January 2002, a few years after he took out the store card. The 
policy was taken out to protect his store card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr B says the PPI was taken out while he was in a store. FICL on the other says the PPI 
was sold over the phone, a few years after Mr B applied for his store card. So, Ive thought 
about what Mr B has said alongside the additional information provided by FICL.
FICL has provided our service with a copy of Mr Bs credit agreement. This shows   Mr B 
didnt select the PPI at the time he applied for his store card. FICL has also provided us with 
evidence to show that the PPI started some years after Mr B applied for his store card. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely the PPI was taken out during a 
telephone conversation a few years after he applied for his store card.
FICL says Mr B would have been given a choice about the PPI. FICL hasnt been able to 
provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place or a copy of the sales script the 
lender would have used when selling the PPI to Mr B. This isnt surprising given the sale 
took place over 17 years ago. So I dont know what was said in the discussion between Mr B 
and the lender.
 
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time 
of sale. It looks like Mr B initially applied for his store card without PPI. FICL later phoned Mr 
B to sell him a policy. And following that call, a policy was set up.   Mr B had already had use 
of his card for some time before the PPI was added to it, so I think he would have known that he didnt have to have PPI with his card. Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case 
to make me think its more likely that the policy was added without Mr Bs agreement. 
Instead, I think its more likely Mr B agreed to take it out, knowing that he didnt have to.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
FICL hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 2002, so Ive had 
a look at the policy wording from 1999  which is the closest copy FICL has to the time of 
sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But based on 
the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about these types of policies generally, I 
think its likely Mr B would have been eligible for the cover. And I cant see he would have 
been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr B has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. Hes also told us that he had some 
savings and life cover in place.
Having thought about what Mr B has said about his sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay Mr B would have received from his employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit if Mr B was ever made redundant and would have enabled him to use his 
savings for any other financial responsibilities he may have had.
Ive also thought about what Mr B has said about the life cover he says he had in place. But 
the main benefits of the PPI would have paid a benefit the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So, I dont think any life cover he says he would have had would have meant 
the policy wasnt useful for him.
So overall, I think Mr B could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman