DRN-3401347
The complaint
This complaint is about arrears on a mortgage account Ms F says Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) failed to inform her about.
What happened
Ms F holds a mortgage account and three sub-accounts with Nationwide. On reviewing her 
annual mortgage statement for these accounts in 2022, Ms F discovered that one of her sub-
accounts was in arrears to the sum of £37.15. Ms F says she always made her payments in 
time and in full, so she couldnt understand how her account could be in arrears.
Nationwide reviewed Ms Fs concerns and confirmed that from 2010 onwards Ms F had 
regularly underpaid the account in question, and every annual mortgage statement showed 
the account was accruing arrears. Because of this, Nationwide didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Ms F says it was clear she wasnt in financial difficulty and she thinks Nationwide should 
have done more to let her know about the outstanding amount. Ms F wants the arrears to be 
written off and has asked for compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator reviewed Ms Fs concerns, but they didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. As Ms F disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Fs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
In July 2010, the direct debit that had been arranged to make Ms Fs monthly mortgage 
repayments was cancelled. Up until then, any adjustments to Ms Fs repayment amounts 
would have been applied automatically. But after the direct debit was cancelled, Ms F had to 
make her monthly repayments manually and as such, she had to keep up to date with any 
changes to those repayments.
In August 2010, when the first manual repayment was made, Ms F underpaid one of her 
sub-accounts by 10p and continued to underpay on this account up to this year. But 
Nationwide has provided evidence that shows, over the years, Ms F overpaid or underpaid 
on each of her other accounts several times as well.
Looking at the statements Nationwide sent Ms F it was clear that there were some arrears 
from 2010 onwards and that the amount outstanding increased each year. For example, the 
sub-account was shown as in arrears by 50p on her annual statement for 2010. This 
increased to £1.70 on her annual statement for 2011 and so on.
Theres evidence Ms F made adjustments to the repayments she made on some of her 
accounts. I say this because at one point three of her accounts were in arrears, but Ms F 
brought two of those accounts up to date. So Im satisfied Ms F knew she had to keep track 
of any adjustments and update the amount she was repaying each time.
Ms F says she saw the arrears figure but had assumed that this was simply due to the dates 
the statements had been generated against her repayments. Ms F says that at some point, 
over the 12-year period, Nationwide had a duty to inform her that her sub-account was 
repeatedly in arrears. 
As Ive mentioned above, Nationwide has shown that Ms Fs annual mortgage statements 
confirmed the status of each of her accounts, including any arrears. Ms F realised what this 
meant when she looked at her statement for 2021 as this is what prompted her to raise her 
concerns with Nationwide. So I think Ms F could have realised this from any one of her 
previous statements, particularly considering that year on year, each statement showed that 
the outstanding arrears had increased. 
Nationwide wasnt obligated to inform Ms F of each underpayment or overpayment given the 
sums involved were relatively small and below the point that it would be required to do so. 
Ive also taken into consideration that the arrears werent reflected on Ms Fs credit file in 
anyway and so I dont think there has been any significant impact to Ms F. Although I 
understand she says this has become stressful for her since she noticed the problem.
Ms F has overpaid on her other accounts, so I think its more likely than not she can easily 
adjust her repayments one month to reduce the arrears and surpluses on each of the 
accounts. The balances would then be up to date and she could continue paying the correct 
amounts, monitoring any changes going forward.
So, Ive considered what Ms F has said, but I dont think Nationwide has done anything 
wrong and it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Nationwide to write off the outstanding arrears or 
compensate her under these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman