DRN-3157943
The complaint and what happened
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost as a result of an 
investment scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In September 2020, Mr H found an investment opportunity on a social media 
platform. He thought he had been given an investment manager to help manage an 
investment account, but it turned out to be a scam. Mr H opened a cryptocurrency 
account, with a genuine provider. He sent money to his crypto account and from 
there funds were sent onto the scammer. 
Mr H made a number of payments:
16 September 2020 £2.00
16 September 2020 £6,998.88
23 September 2020 £8,000
25 September 2020 £9,524.78
25 September 2020 £9,524.78
28 September 2020 £10,000
Total £44,050.44
When Mr Hs investments started to reduce in value he was told to invest more. And 
when he wanted to make a withdrawal, he was told he couldnt do so without a 
paying a fee. Mr H started to become concerned and realised hed been scammed 
when he couldnt make a withdrawal. 
Mr H asked HSBC to reimburse the funds, but it declined to do so as he had 
transferred the funds to his own account and so it said it wasnt the cause of his loss. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. She explained the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) didnt apply to the transactions as Mr H 
had been sending money to his own account; and she didnt think the payments were 
so unusual they ought to have triggered its alerts and security procedures. In the 
event, one payment had triggered but Mr H hadnt been entirely honest about where 
he was sending the funds to. 
Mr H asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Although he had made 
other high-value payments to investment companies, these werent normal either and 
shouldnt be held against him; HSBC should have given the CRM guidance, and no 
consideration has been given to his vulnerable circumstances; he has spent a lot of 
time following this matter up. 
The matter was referred to me and I need some more information. Mr H has confirmed that 
when he made payments to his cryptocurrency provider, it was a couple of days before he 
then sent the money onto the scammer. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out above the key points of 
the complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even 
where they were duped into making that payment. There is no dispute these 
payments were authorised.  
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Mr H has referred to the CRM. However, this voluntary code, which HSBC has 
signed up to, doesnt apply to the transactions in question. Thats because the code 
only applies to payments made to another person; Mr H was making payments 
himself, as the account was held in his name. 
The first payment was very small and so would not have looked out of character at 
all. And although Mr H doesnt believe previous large investment payments ought to 
be taken into account, Im afraid I dont agree. Those payments are part of what 
makes up a pattern of behaviour  Mr Hs statements show that he does transfer 
large amounts into his account, before transferring them out again a short time later. 
This is the same pattern that happened with the payments in dispute. So it was 
typical behaviour for Mr H. 
Mr H had made previous payments of £2,000 on 19 March 2020, and £2,000 and 
£5,000 on 23 March 2020 to an investment platform. Whilst the payments were a bit 
higher, Im not persuaded those made in September 2020 were so unusual or so 
uncharacteristic that HSCBs fraud systems ought to have triggered.  
That said, HSBC did pause one of the payments on 25 September. And contrary to 
Mr Hs assertions, it did call him about the transaction. Having listened to the call, it 
asked him various questions about the payment, including where it was going to and 
whether hed opened that account himself. But Mr H wasnt entirely honest in his 
response, saying the money was being paid into a savings account. Im not 
persuaded a bank ought to intervene where payments are going to someones own 
savings account, so Im not persuaded HSBC should have done more, given Mr Hs 
response. Had he been more forthright and explained he was buying cryptocurrency, 
I might have agreed the bank ought to have done more, given that can be an 
indicator of fraud. But by not giving a true account of what was happening, Mr H 
hasnt helped the bank to help him. 
But even if I thought the bank ought to have done more, and I make clear that in the 
circumstances of this complaint I dont, Im not persuaded it was the transfer of 
money from Mr Hs account at HSBC (or its alleged failure to intervene in those 
transfers) that has ultimately caused his loss. Mr H made further onward transfers 
from his cryptocurrency account held with a genuine cryptocurrency provider, to the 
fraudster. Whilst those later transfers out of the genuine cryptocurrency account were 
all part of the scam, it was those transfers that were the actual cause of Mr Hs loss.
I accept this matter has caused Mr H difficulties and he might have spent a lot of time 
trying to sort it out. But Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong, and so I 
wont be making an award against it or asking it to pay compensation.   Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I dont find HSBC has treated Mr H unfairly 
or unreasonably by not reimbursing his losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman