DRN-4087305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company dealt with a claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to Chaucer 
includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in June 2022, Mr and Mrs T booked a trip which had an 
intended departure date of 28 August 2022. In July 2022, they purchased a single trip      
travel insurance policy underwritten by Chaucer. The policy started on 28 August 2022 
and ended on 7 September 2022. Mrs T declared one medical condition. 
Unfortunately, on 23 August 2022, Mr Ts mother, who Ill refer to as Mrs T1, passed 
away. Mr and Mrs T cancelled their trip and made a claim against their policy. Chaucer 
said that it required a medical certificate which outlined the full medical history of the 
condition which caused Mrs T1s death. It said that was because the policy doesnt cover 
cancellation claims where the death of a close relative was due to a pre-existing 
condition. Mr and Mrs T didnt think that was reasonable and pursued their complaint.  
Mr and Mrs T want Chaucer to deal with their claim. They say that what happened is 
covered under the terms of their policy. Mr and Mrs T say that they werent aware of   
Mrs T1s illness until shortly before her death. They say that Chaucers requests are 
unreasonable and would cause Mr Ts father acute distress. Mr and Mrs T also complain 
about how Chaucer handled their claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Chaucer was 
entitled to ask for a medical certificate in this case. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the 
investigator. They say that the exclusion on which Chaucer seeks to rely isnt relevant 
here and is misleading. Mr and Mrs T say that they acted honestly and in good faith. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs T said but didnt change his view.             
Mr and Mrs T asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
SECTION A  CANCELLATION OR CURTAILMENT CHARGES
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges 
[] which you have paid or are contracted to pay, [] if:
a) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
[]
as a result of any of the following events:
[]
2. The death [] of
[]
c) your close relative.
Close relative is defined in the policy and includes mother and parent-in-law.
GENERAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO THE WHOLE POLICY
The following conditions apply to all sections of this insurance.
[]
4. You must give Claims Settlement Agencies all the documents they need to deal with any 
claim. You will be responsible for the costs involved in doing this. For example, in the event 
of a cancellation claim you will need to supply proof that you were unable to travel, such as 
a medical certificate completed by your doctor.
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS APPLICABLE TO THE WHOLE POLICY
[]
We will not cover the following:
[]
2. Any claims arising as a result of an existing medical condition of a close relative or 
friend living abroad whom you had planned to stay with, or any known or recognised 
complication of or caused by the existing medical condition.
[]
IMPORTANT CONDITIONS RELATING TO HEALTH
[]
BE AWARE!
We do not provide cover at any time for:
[]
Claims caused by an existing medical condition of a close relative or friend living 
abroad whom you had planned to stay with, or any known or recognised complication 
of or caused by the existing medical condition.
[]
Health of your non-travelling close relative []
If you have a non-travelling close relative [] with a medical condition who dies or falls 
seriously ill and as a result you wish to claim under section A  Cancellation or curtailment 
charges, you will be covered only if the close relatives [] doctor states that at the time of 
purchasing this insurance or booking a trip, whichever is the later, he/she would not have 
foreseen such a serious deterioration in his or her patients condition.Existing medical condition is defined in the policy as any serious or ongoing or 
recurring medical condition which has been previously diagnosed or been investigated or 
treated in any way, at any time prior to travel, even if this condition is currently considered to 
be stable and under control.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says as follows:
What is not insured?
[]
X All claims arising from existing medical conditions unless declared to and accepted in 
writing by us.
has Chaucer acted unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Chaucer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding this  
complaint because I dont think that Chaucer treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably. 
I say that because:   
Chaucer hasnt declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim on the basis of the exclusion Ive set 
out above: it says that it needs the medical certificate its asked for in order to 
assess the claim. I dont think that Chaucer has treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly or 
unreasonably in asking for a medical certificate in this case. 
Theres a general condition in the policy, which Ive set out above, which provides 
that Mr and Mrs T must give Chaucer all the documents it  needs to deal with any 
claim. So, Mr and Mrs T are obliged, under the terms of the policy, to provide what 
Chaucer has asked for. I dont think that Chaucers request is unreasonable. Ill 
explain why.
The policy covers certain unrecoverable costs following necessary and 
unavoidable cancellation of a trip caused by the death of a close relative. But it 
doesnt cover any claims arising as a result of an existing medical condition of a 
close relative. So, Chaucer needs to establish whether Mrs T1 had an existing 
medical condition, as defined by the policy. That is, any serious, ongoing or 
recurring medical condition thats been diagnosed, investigated or treated in any 
way at any time prior to travel. I think that Chaucers request for a medical 
certificate is a reasonable way to establish whether Mrs T1 had an existing medical 
condition. 
Mr and Mrs T say that the exclusion about existing medical conditions of a close 
relative isnt relevant here, as Mrs T1 didnt live abroad and they hadnt planned to 
stay with her on their trip. Im afraid I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ts interpretation 
of the exclusion. Im satisfied that the exclusion about an existing medical condition 
relates to a close relative, or a friend living abroad with whom the policyholder had 
planned to stay. 
One of the policys conditions relating to health provides that, in the circumstances 
that arose here, theres only cover if Mrs T1s doctor states that, at the time          
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy, such a serious deterioration in Mrs T1s condition 
wasnt foreseeable. I think its reasonable for Chaucer to request medical 
information in order to establish that.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T say that they were unaware of Mrs T1s medical 
condition until shortly before she passed away. Mr and Mrs Ts knowledge of      
Mrs T1s health isnt the determining factor in this case. 
Mr and Mrs T also complain about how Chaucer handled their claim. They say that 
it was difficult to contact the claims department. In its final response to Mrs T, 
Chaucer apologised in relation to service issues. I think thats sufficient in this case 
and I dont propose to direct it to do any more. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Chaucer has treated Mr and Mrs T 
unfairly in asking for a medical certificate. I understand that Mr and Mrs T believe 
that further enquiries will cause Mr Ts father acute distress. Its a matter for them 
how they wish to proceed. I dont think that its unfair or unreasonable for Chaucer 
to establish relevant medical information in this case. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman