DRN-2430454
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr G fell victim to a scam. 
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr G was contacted by a fraudster, pretending to 
be from HSBC, who told Mr G that his money was at risk and tricked him into sending a 
payment for £9,900 to what he thought was a safe account, but was actually an account 
controlled by the fraudster.  
On 9 September 2020, Mr G received a phone call from somebody claiming to be from 
HSBC. The caller told Mr G that two direct debits had been set up on his account, from a 
location in Scotland. Mr G has told us that he asked the caller how he could be sure he was 
speaking with HSBC. The caller was able to provide Mr G with the answer to a security 
question he has on his account - his mothers maiden name - which Mr G has said very few 
people know. The caller also gave him information about his account which Mr G thought 
only his bank would know. Alongside this, Mr G has told us hed received calls from HSBC in 
the past to check the legitimacy of payments he had made and so he didnt find this type of 
call from his bank to be particularly out of the ordinary. 
Because of this, Mr G thought the caller was genuine, but unknown to him at the time the 
call was from a fraudster. 
The fraudster told Mr G the best course of action would be for him to move his money into a 
new account that would be set up for him, but that he would need to move the money in 
separate amounts. The fraudster gave Mr G the account details for the new account and 
was told he should transfer the money to this.
Mr G has said the fraudster was professional and knew a lot about his account.  He said he 
felt pressured and put on the spot to move his money because the fraudster told him there 
were time restraints in moving the money to ensure his account was protected. 
Mr G has told us he used a card reader to make the payment and he initially pushed the 
wrong button; hes said he doesnt usually use this and found it fiddly. Hes said he was all 
fingers and thumbs when trying to make the payment and he found the practical part (of 
making the payment) confusing, because of the digits he had to press. But hes said the 
fraudster went through the steps of the payment with him bit by bit, telling him which buttons 
to press on his card reader and on online banking throughout the payment process, which 
further convinced him he was talking to someone from his bank. 
Believing the call to be genuine, Mr G went ahead and made the payment for £9,900 via his 
online banking. Overall, hes said the call took over an hour and the fraudster was very 
patient with him.
Mr G has said that after having made the payment, he became suspicious when the 
fraudster started to rush him to make additional payments. Due to this he asked the 
fraudster to give him some time and call him back in half an hour. The fraudster told him he 
was calling from the number on the back of Mr Gs bank card and so he had no need to 
worry, however due to the change in the fraudsters demeanour, as soon as the call ended, 
Mr G called HSBC to confirm the information he had been given was correct. It was then that 
the scam came to light. The fraudster did try to call Mr G back, as had been agreed, to try 
and get more money from him, but he was now wise to the fact he had been dealing with a 
fraudster.
HSBC contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any of the money Mr G had 
lost.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC wrote to Mr G on 29 September 2020. It said it should have done more to protect and 
advise him before he made the payment. But it added that Mr G could also have taken more 
responsibility and conducted more checks prior to making the payment. So it thought they 
should share the responsibility and offered to refund half of the money Mr G had lost, and it 
went ahead and refunded £4,450 to Mr G. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
She thought Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he was genuinely speaking to his 
bank.  In summary, she said this because; the fraudster provided Mr G with personal 
information about his account, Mr G had received contact from HSBC over the phone in the 
past regarding payments, the caller was patient and Mr G was unaware the account was 
held with a third party bank. Overall, our investigator thought HSBC should refund Mr G the 
remaining money he had lost, along with interest.
  
HSBC responded, disagreeing with our investigators view. In summary it said;
- it disagreed strongly that Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment 
was for genuine services, or that who he was liaising with was legitimate
- the view had been reached without regard to Mr Gs personal characteristics, in that 
he was not vulnerable or unsophisticated
- its offer of 50% was in compliance with the CRM code
- Mr G did not meet the requisite level of care and should rightly bear some 
responsibility
- it was its strong view that taking into account the circumstances, Mr G clearly 
behaved in a grossly negligent manner
- there were concerning factors regarding the case which could and should have 
caused Mr G to question the legitimacy of the payment 
- Mr Gs significant carelessness is emphasised by the apparent speed with which he 
became concerned that this may not be genuine
- Mr G would have been aware it is not HSBCs process to provide the mothers 
maiden name when calling a customer, given that Mr G confirmed he has previously 
been called by HSBC
- at the time of making the payment, Mr G received a Confirmation of Payee message, 
advising that the details did not match the account name
- Mr G chose not to heed red flags, such as why the account was not an HSBC 
account, but with another bank
- this was not a sophisticated scam, it was very straightforward and mirrors the type of scam consumers are warned about
-
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Mr G the full amount 
he lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr G lost.
- The money was taken from Mr Gs current account. It is not clear how Mr G would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so HSBC 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
(from the date HSBC should have refunded this under the CRM Code, to the date of 
payment).
HSBC, although admitting it could have done more to protect Mr G before he made the 
payment, argue that two exceptions from the CRM Code apply. It argues; 
- Mr G made the payments without a reasonable basis of belief that the person they 
were paying was the person they were expecting to pay and was legitimate.
- Mr G was grossly negligent. 
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations that Mr G did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing the transfer was genuine and that he was grossly negligent, but they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded Mr G failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code. In reaching my decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set 
by the fraudster and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Mr 
Gs thoughts and actions. 
In this case Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr G lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
- It appears the fraudster used social engineering techniques in order to gain his trust 
(providing Mr G with personal information about him and his accounts that he 
believed only his bank would know). Additionally, Mr G has said hes received calls 
like the one he received from the fraudster from HSBC before, to clarify the 
legitimacy of a payment. It is not uncommon for banks to call customers to discuss a 
transaction in order to satisfy itself that a customer isnt at risk of financial harm and 
to inform them of fraudulent activity on their account. So I can see why Mr G wouldnt 
think a call of this nature from his bank was particularly out of the ordinary, or that he 
should be suspicious about whether it was really his bank calling him  particularly in 
the absence of a warning informing him about this type of scam. Given the 
knowledge the fraudster had about Mr Gs personal information and accounts, as 
well as the sense of familiarity Mr G felt during the call, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr G to believe he was genuinely talking to someone from his 
bank. 
- Based on Mr Gs recollections, its also more likely than not that the fraudster was 
spoofing HSBCs genuine number (as is often the case in these types of scams), given they told Mr G the number they were calling from was the same as the number 
that was written on the back of his bank card. While Mr G didnt check the number 
was the same, if he had done, given the fraudster encouraged Mr G to double check 
the number, I think its more likely than not it wouldve been the same. So I dont 
consider that step would likely have been sufficient to prevent this scam.
- HSBC has argued that given Mr G has received calls from it before, Mr G would have 
been aware that it doesnt refer to a mothers maiden name as part of its security 
process. I dont agree it follows, that because a customer has received a call 
previously and gone through a banks security questions, that the customer would 
automatically know that a certain question wouldnt form part of a banks identification 
questions. I think its unreasonable for HSBC to assume that Mr G would have 
recognised that the security details the fraudster gave him, were not consistent with 
what HSBC may have asked.
- HSBC has argued Mr G was not vulnerable or unsophisticated, and that this wasnt a 
sophisticated scam. However I dont think HSBC has given enough consideration to 
the fact the fraudster had created an environment of pressure and fear  designed to 
make Mr G comply with their instructions and disrupt his thought process. Fraudsters 
know that fear can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process. It can 
certainly make people take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not 
otherwise take. 
HSBC has also said at the time of making the payment, Mr G received a Confirmation of 
Payee message, advising that the details did not match the account name Mr G was paying, 
which resulted in a warning  yet Mr G still went ahead with the payment. The Confirmation 
of Payee provision isnt yet effective within the CRM Code and in it is not currently an active 
listed exception to reimbursement. But I have thought about whether Mr G ought to have had 
concerns about the legitimacy of the payment following the negative confirmation of payee 
result, and in turn whether he made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief.
Having done so, overall, I dont think HSBC has fairly considered the wider circumstances of 
what was happening when the transfer was made. Mr G was in a stressful situation, he 
thought his money was at risk, and he has told us he was put under pressure to make the 
payment. Hes also said that the fraudster talked him through, bit by bit on how to make the 
payment, telling him what to press, as he was finding the practical part of making the 
payment confusing as it wasnt a method of payment he frequently used. As a result, Mr G 
doesnt recall seeing the information regarding the negative confirmation of payee. Im 
persuaded by Mr Gs recollections here. Im satisfied Mr G was following the instructions he 
was being given, by who he thought was his bank, to protect his money. In the moment, 
considering all of the circumstances and the stressful environment and emotional pressure 
created by the fraudster, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr G didnt notice the account he 
was paying didnt match and instead followed the instructions he was being given. 
Customers do tend to follow the instructions banks give them  particularly when it comes to 
concerns about fraudulent activity on their account  this is another reason why these types 
of impersonation scams are so successful.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mr G sent the payment he did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Ive gone on to consider HSBCs point that Mr G clearly behaved in a grossly negligent 
manner. For HSBC to establish this, it would require a very significant degree of 
carelessness on Mr Gs part. I am not persuaded his actions meet that very high bar. I dont 
think Mr Gs actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a reasonable 
person would have done in the same situation. I dont think he disregarded or acted with 
indifference towards the risk of his bank account being compromised and money being stolen. Just because Mr G became suspicious later in the call, doesnt mean his earlier belief 
that the call was genuine was unreasonable  Mr G has explained he became suspicious 
due to a change in the fraudsters tone and demeanor. In the circumstances I can see why 
this raised suspicion that reasonably wasnt there beforehand. 
Im persuaded that he took the actions he did with the genuine belief that by following the 
instructions he was given, in making a payment, he was protecting his money from fraud. I 
think in similar circumstances a reasonable person would have acted in the same way Mr G 
did here.
Overall, I am persuaded that Mr G did meet his requisite level of care and I dont believe 
HSBC has established it was able to choose not to refund him under the Code. In the 
circumstances I think it ought to have fully refunded Mr G under the provisions of the CRM 
Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc;
- refunds the remaining £4,450 Mr G lost and;
- pay 8% simple interest from the date HSBC decided not to refund him under the 
Code until the date the funds are returned. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman