DRN-4169681
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint relates to a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage they had with 
Santander UK Plc. They are unhappy that they were unable to port the mortgage to a new 
rental property and believe they were given incorrect information by Santander about the 
process. This meant that they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they 
repaid the Santander mortgage. It also meant that they lost a non-refundable deposit on a 
new property because they couldnt afford to go ahead with the purchase, having paid the 
ERC and higher interest rates.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a BTL mortgage with Santander in 2020. A new interest rate product 
was attached to the mortgage in October 2020, which had an ERC associated with it if the 
mortgage was repaid within the product term.
In January 2023 Mrs M called Santander and asked about porting the mortgage to a different 
rental property. The porting process was explained, and she was also told Santander no 
longer sold BTL mortgages directly, so she and Mr M would need to use an independent 
mortgage broker to complete the process. A porting window was available if needed at the 
time  there could be up to three months between the old mortgage ending and the new one 
beginning  and the ERC would be refunded.
Mr and Mrs M have told us they reserved a new build property on 28 January 2023. This 
involved them paying a reservation fee of £500, which was not refundable if the purchase 
didnt complete. 
On 20 February 2023 Mrs M called Santander back to complain, as they had been told by 
the broker they had approached for assistance that they couldnt port their mortgage.
Santander responded to the complaint in its letters of 23 February and 20 March 2023. It 
confirmed that porting a BTL mortgage could not be done with Santander, it had to be done 
through a broker. It went on to highlight that Mrs M had said the broker had told them they 
could only borrow a certain amount. This indicated to Santander that Mr and Mrs M had 
been told they could not have the mortgage they wanted, rather than that they could not port. 
Santander recommended they speak to their broker. It didnt consider it had done anything 
wrong and so rejected the complaint. 
The sale of Mr and Mrs Ms existing rental property completed on 24 March 2023 and the 
mortgage was paid off. An ERC was applied.
Mr and Mrs M were not satisfied with Santanders response and asked the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to consider their complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, but she didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. Essentially, she explained that there was no evidence that Santander had 
done anything wrong, as no application had been made and declined. The Investigator 
highlighted that porting was only allowed if a mortgage application for the new property was 
accepted, and Mr and Mrs M had correctly been told that any such application would be 
subject to assessment and was not guaranteed to be accepted. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what the Investigator had said. They said that the reason they 
had referred the complaint was because they were dissatisfied with Santanders response. 
They said when Mrs M spoke to Santander in January 2023 she believed having to apply to 
port in writing was a formality and was not aware that a full mortgage application needed to 
be made and would be assessed. Mr and Mrs M also said Santander had not addressed the 
issue of affordability in its responses or given them the opportunity to discuss the issue with 
it directly. They also provided a statement from the broker they had approached, which said 
that Mr and Mrs M had failed Santanders affordability criteria. Mr and Mrs M asked that the 
complaint be escalated if the Investigator couldnt change her conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would at this point explain that mortgage brokers are provided with systems that complete 
an initial assessment of a potential application to see if it is worthwhile for a full application to 
be made. There is no involvement of Santander in this process, and it will not have any 
record of any such assessment being done  this would only be held by the mortgage 
broker. I have reviewed the information Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage broker provided and it 
appears they could not submit an application for a new BTL mortgage, to which they could 
have ported their existing interest rate product, because they failed the affordability checks. 
So effectively, Santander did not decline an application or refuse them anything; rather their 
circumstances meant that no application was made. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they believed applying to port was simply a formality and no checks 
or assessment of their request would be done. While they may have believed that; it was not 
the case and they would not have been told it was. It is standard throughout the mortgage 
industry that in order to port an interest rate product to a new mortgage, that mortgage has 
to be applied for and the application accepted. The process of accepting an application 
involves a lender determining if the application  the individuals, their circumstances and the 
property  falls within its lending criteria as they are at the time. This was clearly set out in 
the documentation Mr and Mrs M were given. In addition, Mrs M has confirmed she was told 
they had to apply to port, and any such application had to be made through a mortgage 
broker. At the point Mr and Mrs M contacted the mortgage broker it was then the brokers 
responsibility to explain the process. 
It is not uncommon for existing borrowers to assume that as they have a certain amount of 
borrowing, they will be able to have that amount again if they change property. 
Unfortunately, regulation and industry guidance vary over time, as does a lenders appetite 
for risk, which means that lending criteria also change over time. This sometimes means that 
even where previous borrowing has been approved, new borrowing of the same amount 
wont be acceptable to the lender. As long as a lender is applying its criteria equally to all 
potential customers, that is not something we can find fault with a lender for. Although I know 
that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my findings, I am not persuaded Santander did 
anything wrong in this case or that it can be found responsible for their claimed losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 January 2024. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman