DRN-3326860
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited did not allow him to pay 
for his Home Insurance policy renewal by monthly instalments. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
When offering credit, such as a monthly instalment plan, it is a requirement for an 
affordability assessment to take place. This takes into account things such as 
recorded monthly income, any mortgage or rental payments, outstanding credit 
arrangements, essential bills and monthly living expenses. It does not rely on a credit 
rating score which is provided by credit reference agencies.
It isnt my role to decide if AA should have made a different lending decision, what Ill 
be looking at is whether it followed its usual process and treated Mr Hs application 
fairly.  
AA obtained information from a credit reference agency and this, when combined 
with the parameters AA had set for its lending decision making, meant a monthly 
instalment plan could not be offered to Mr H. 
AA has shared with me information about how the credit reference agency data is 
used in order to reach its lending decision. While I appreciate Mr H wants to know 
exactly why AA decided it couldnt offer a monthly instalment plan to him, this 
information has been shared in confidence and is commercially sensitive. I therefore 
wont be providing this detail to Mr H. 
I can reassure Mr H that, having looked at the information AA received Im satisfied it 
treated him the same it would have done any other customer when making the 
decision it did.  
Mr H has provided information to this service about his monthly income in order to 
demonstrate why he feels the decision AA made must be wrong. However, AA is 
entitled to rely on the information it receives from the credit reference agency when 
making its decision. 
AA provided Mr H with details of the credit reference agency it used to provide 
information, as I would have expected it to.
I realise this matter has caused Mr H some concern and he has entered into a 
monthly plan with the credit reference agency to obtain further information and 
reassure himself him details havent been misappropriated. However, I cant ask AA 
to compensate Mr H for this, as I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman