DRN-3958283
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Stagemount Limited, trading as
Quidmarket, lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he had lots of other debt and the credit
file and bank account statements would have shown that.
What happened
Mr W took five loans from Quidmarket, two of which he withdrew from within the terms of the
agreement. These are set out in the final response letter and both parties have the copy. He
had loans with Quidmarket between 15 October 2018 and 16 November 2020.
Mr Ws representative received a final response letter (FRL) which gave comprehensive
details about how Quidmarket had approached the five loans when Mr W had applied to it.
Quidmarket did not uphold his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint after it had been referred to the Financial
Ombudsman Service and she did not consider that Quidmarket had lent to Mr W
irresponsibly.
Mr Ws representative has asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman and so it was passed
to me. On 13 April 2023 I provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and that is 
duplicated in the next section of this decision. It is in smaller type size. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. 
These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
duplication of my provisional findings dated 13 April 2023
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Break in the lending
I have noticed that there was a nine month gap between loan 2 being repaid on
15 March 2019 and loan 3 being applied for on 16 December 2019. So, I agree with our
adjudicator that this nine month break would have been enough time to break the loan chain.
I will be considering loans 1 and 2 as one chain of lending and loans 3 to 5 as the second
chain.
Withdrawn loans
I disagree with our adjudicator where she has indicated that the withdrawn loans do not need
to be reviewed. I have seen from records that Mr W still had to pay some element of interest
on the withdrawn loans over and above the principal sums and so there was an element of
loss. And the loans were considered and approved by Quidmarket and so I have reviewed
those lending decisions in the same way I have for the other three loans.
Loans 1 and 2
Mr W approached Quidmarket as a new customer in October 2018. It was for a £300 loan.
Quidmarket verified his income and employment and so it proceeded on the basis that his declared 
income of £2,500 a month (after tax) was accurate. Mr W lived at home with his
parents and had declared rent and so it seems he paid money to them but no separate utility
bills.
Quidmarket did not need to, but did obtain, a credit report on Mr Ws financial situation. The
headline figures were that he had £30,859 of total debt balances of which £2,933 were
revolving credit accounts such as credit cards. He was 97% up to his credit limit of £3,000 on
those revolving credit accounts. Mr W had had 126 accounts (114 settled) within he last six
years as that was the period usually covered by credit reports. Of those accounts, 12 were
active and he had opened 22 in the last six months. Mr W had 32 searches against his name
in the previous six months.
I went through that credit search set of results and I have been able to identify a total creditrepayment commitment each month of £781 plus a hire purchase (HP) liability of £399 a
month. Added to which he was likely having to pay the minimum repayment of around 3% to
his credit card balance of £ 2,460 which would have been about £74. The total I calculated
was £1,254.
In the FRL Quidmarket had reached a similar conclusion based on its own credit search 
that Mr Ws monthly credit commitments were £1,267. So the Quidmarket underwriter
reduced Mr Ws disposable income from the initial figure of £1,345 to £558.
The repayments for loan 1 of £300 were scheduled as £25.20 a week for 21 weeks and so
that equated to around £109.20 a month. The total charge for credit was £229.20. He repaid
it a week early on 8 March 2019.
The repayments may have appeared affordable as they were effectively £109 each month
with a disposable income of £558 a month. But the overall credit picture showed that he was
obtaining and settling loans in quick succession and that he was already paying at least
£1,254 a month on credit commitments before the Quidmarket loan. It translated to have
been around 50% of his net income. And the Quidmarket loan repayments would have led to
that being even higher. So, I do not consider that was the right decision to lend to Mr W.
Loan 2 was applied for a day after repaying loan 1. It was for more money (£500) and
Mr Ws credit situation had changed a bit. Still Quidmarket has said in its FRL  and I have
checked this  that it had calculated Mr Ws credit commitments were costing him £1,528 a
month. This would have been around 61% of his net monthly income. With the Quidmarket
loan repayments then that would have been higher.
The repayments were scheduled as £37.80 a week over 26 weeks which translated to be
around £164 a month. The total charge for the credit was £482.80. So, for the same reasons
given as for loan 1 I consider that the credit commitments Mr W already had ought to have
led Quidmarket not to have lent loan 2 to him.
I plan to uphold Mr Ws complaint for loans 1 and 2.
Loans 3 to 5
Loan 3 was taken on 16 December 2019 and repaid on 12 June 2020. Loan 4 was applied
for and taken 24 October 2020, repaid as a withdrawn credit agreement on 26 October 2020
after which Mr W applied for loan 5 on 31 October 2020  just a few days later.
I have looked at all these three loans. They were for £300 and £400 each and loan 4 was
withdrawn so the total amount repaid on that loan was just £3.20 over the principal of £400
taken.
Further, Loan 4 (ultimately withdrawn) was applied for on 24 October 2020 which was four
and half months after Mr W had repaid loan 3. This was a significant break and one Im
almost persuaded may be treated to break the lending relationship again. But having thought
about it I have chosen to proceed to view loans 3, 4 and 5 as one loan chain.
However, I cant ignore that lengthy gap. It would have demonstrated to Quidmarket that
Mr W was not particularly in need of further credit and/or not likely to have been reliant on its
credit. And that inevitably would have been part of the considerations Quidmarket took into
account when doing its creditworthiness assessment for loan 4.
Loan 5 was applied for a few days after Mr W had withdrawn from and repaid loan 4 in late
October 2020.
I have reviewed each of Mr Ws applications and I have reviewed the credit searches
Quidmarket carried out for loans 3, 4 and 5. Overall, Mr Ws situation financially appeared to
have improved and so I consider that these loans were affordable.For example, for loan 3, Mr Ws income had increased to £2,680 a month after tax, he was
still living with his parents and his total credit commitments had reduced to £709 (including
minimum repayments on the credit card debts). Mr W had taken a new HP agreement which
was less money each month at £308. So, his total credit commitments were £1,017 which
presented a better picture than for loan 2 which had been a figure of £1,528.
The repayments for loan 3 were a few pence over £23 a week and that translated into just
under £100 a month, then these plus Mr Ws relatively modest household expenditure leads
me to consider that Quidmarket was not irresponsible when it lent to him in December 2019
for loan 3.
At loan 4, the headline debt figures revealed in Mr Ws credit search carried out by
Quidmarket had reduced further as had the number of open accounts and his total
repayment commitments each month.
Loan 5 was applied for by Mr W a few days later and the credit search results for loans 4
and 5 were identical as Quidmarket would have obtained them within a few days of each
other. They showed that Mr W had overall debt (including the HP and all his credit cards and
loans) of £23,976 plus was 81% on his balance to limit ration for the credit card debt. He had
11 active accounts. He had opened fewer accounts leading up to that search date and had
fewer searches registered. So, the overall situation appeared better and I think he was able
to afford the repayments for loans 4 and 5.
I note that Mr Ws representative has sent to us bank account statements for one of Mr Ws
accounts (the credit search details show me he had two current accounts). These are
therefore not a complete set as they are only of one account and they cover the period
July 2020 to February 2021. So, the partial records I have from Mr W would only have been
relevant to loans 4 and 5, taken days apart in October 2020. In any event, I have not come
across any reason for Quidmarket to have been prompted to ask for and review Mr Ws full
financial situation. It already had carried out checks Id consider to have been proportionate
for these relatively modest loans. And so, I would not expect it to have looked at Mr Ws
bank account statements. In the circumstances I do not consider them particularly relevant
to my provisional decision.
I plan not to uphold Mr Ws complaint about these three loans.
How did the parties respond? 
Mr Ws representative responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Quidmarket has replied and has disagreed. It has said:
Mr W had a high level of income and lived at home with his parents and so 
Quidmarket says he had a high level of disposable income
Quidmarket has repeated an earlier part of the decision where I have outlined the 
usual approach that we consider lending businesses ought to take. It has cited: in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. So Quidmarket has said Ive got it wrong for loans 1 and 2.
Quidmarket goes on to indicate that the next part of my decision (for loans 3 to 5) 
does not fit with my earlier provisional decision about loans 1 and 2. 
Quidmarket points out that for loans 3, 4 and 5, I had provisionally decided not to 
uphold the complaint about them because I had determined that the customer was 
better off. Quidmarket has said Mr Ws income had only increased by £100 a month 
from £2,500 to £2,600 and Quidmarket says that Mr Ws other expenses had not 
changed. I have reconsidered the complaint in detail taking into account Quidmarkets cogent points.
I have chosen to include a loan table as I think that may add some clarity. 
Loan Approved Amount Repayments Term Repaid date or 
withdrawn 
date
1 13 October 
2018£300 £25.20 week
(monthly equivalent 
around £109.20)21 weeks 8 March 2019
2 9 March 2019 £500 £37.80 a week
(monthly equivalent 
of around £164)26 weeks 15 March 2019 
(withdrawn)
Paid £520
Gap of nine months
3 16 December 
2019£23.06 a week
(monthly equivalent 
under £100)26 weeks 12 June 2020
Four and a half month gap
4 24 October 
2020£400 £30.79
(monthly equivalent 
£133.42)25 weeks Withdrawn on 
26 October 
2020
Paid £403.20
5 31 October 
2020£400 £30.79
(monthly equivalent 
£133.42)25 weeks 16 November 
2020
Loans 1 and 2
Im repeating here some of the points already outlined in the provisional decision. The 
duplicated points here are to highlight some of the points I had already made in the 
provisional decision and so I invite Quidmarket to read all the provisional decision about 
loans 1 and 2. On loan 1 I said:
Quidmarket did not need to, but did obtain, a credit report on Mr Ws financial situation. The
headline figures were that he had £30,859 of total debt balances of which £2,933 were
revolving credit accounts such as credit cards. He was 97% up to his credit limit of £3,000 on
those revolving credit accounts. Mr W had had 126 accounts (114 settled) within the last six
years as that was the period usually covered by credit reports. Of those accounts, 12 were
active and he had opened 22 in the last six months. Mr W had 32 searches against his name 
in the previous six months.
This picture was a very poor one and indicates that Mr W had taken four new loans a month 
for the six months period leading up to applying to Quidmarket for loan 1. 
And later I said about the loan 1 circumstances:
The repayments may have appeared affordable as they were effectively £109 each month
with a disposable income of £558 a month. But the overall credit picture showed that he wasobtaining and settling loans in quick succession and that he was already paying at least
£1,254 a month on credit commitments before the Quidmarket loan. It translated to have
been around 50% of his net income. And the Quidmarket loan repayments would have led to
that being even higher. So, I do not consider that was the right decision to lend to Mr W.
I consider that Quidmarkets loan 1 would have been unsustainable.  
On loan 2 I said: 
Mr Ws credit commitments were costing him £1,528 a month. This would have been around 
61% of his net monthly income. With the Quidmarket loan repayments then that would have 
been higher.
And so, I remain of the view that having obtained the credit reference agency (CRA) 
information Quidmarket did get about Mr W, then it was not able to ignore it. And the 
additional loans from Quidmarket would have been too much each month considering the 
whole picture, not just one part of it. 
Loans 3 to 5 were approached by me as if they were in a new loan chain and Quidmarket 
has not objected to that. Mr H has not made any representations about it and so I maintain 
that approach. 
And as for loans 3 to 5, with the nine month gap after loan 2 and the four and a half month 
gap after loan 3 I saw that the financial picture Quidmarket had obtained about Mr W had 
altered. And the gaps would not have indicated to Quidmarket that Mr W was becoming 
reliant on its credit. And considering it all, including the £180 a month increase in his income 
(not £100 as Quidmarket has suggested) plus the fall in his credit commitments, I remain of 
the view that loans 3, 4 and 5 were affordable. 
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2 and not about loans 3 to 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 1 and 2 to Mr W, as Im satisfied it ought not to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr W loans 1 and 2.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ws 
credit file in relation to loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and I direct that Stagemount Limited  
trading as Quidmarket does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman