DRN-3700129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) only 
partially settled a claim on their home insurance policy following a number of leaks in their 
property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M suffered escapes of water in their property including from a loft shower into 
the bathroom below. Initial investigations werent able to clearly show where the water was 
coming from. And Mr and Mrs M were worried the ceiling might collapse. They contacted 
their insurer to report the damage but were worried as the claim was taking months to 
progress. 
LV said the leaks were due to pre-existing problems and partially declined their claim for 
damage in the bathroom and loft. But Mr and Mrs M didnt think the contractors inspections 
were thorough enough. So theyd like LV to reconsider its decision and carry out the 
necessary repairs through their home insurance policy.
LV said Mr and Mrs M reported water damage in April 2021.  They told the insurer itd 
originally occurred around August 2020. LV appointed building contractors to validate the 
claim. The experts report indicated a pipe in the loft had leaked and caused water damage 
in the loft and down into the bathroom below. But the expert report stated the damage 
appeared to be the result of gradual deterioration. The policyholder had indicated itd taken 
place over a period of time. And as such it was excluded from cover in the home insurance 
policy.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with LVs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He considered the experts opinion relied on by LV. And 
he hadnt seen anything to dispute its findings. So he felt LV was entitled to rely on the 
evidence provided.
Our investigator felt LV had declined the claim fairly as the policy contained a general 
exception for damage caused by wear and tear. Aspects of the damage appeared to be pre-
existing and historical. And he didnt think LV needed to take any further action.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M have been put through. 
It mustve been very upsetting to be told their claim wouldnt be covered. So Ive looked very 
carefully at everything thats been said to see if LV has done anything wrong. And if so what 
it needs to do to put things right.
When deciding whether I think LVs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim is fair I have to 
start by deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the 
cause of the damage claimed for. But if the cause is noted in the home insurance policy as 
an exception Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
I can see there have been similar problems at Mr and Mrs Ms property in recent years. LV 
settled a claim for water damage in 2019. When the current damage was discovered Mr and 
Mrs M asked someone locally to have a look first. Unfortunately they dont seem to have 
been able to locate and fix the source of the water damage. And when the leak was reported 
to LV the insurer sent its own surveyor to carry out an investigation.
As long-standing customers Mr and Mrs M expected LV to find out what the problem was 
and put things right. So I can appreciate their upset when LV declined their claim. 
I realise Mr and Mrs M have been through a difficult time and they dont think LV did enough 
to investigate the damage. But based on what Ive seen I think LV has acted fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy.
The policy sets out the obligations on each party. This includes the requirement for the 
policyholder to take care to maintain the property in good condition and protect it from 
damage or loss. The insurer agrees to cover certain named risks and the policy will also lists 
any exceptions to the cover provided. And under general exceptions I can see the policy 
document states that LV wont pay for any claim arising from anything which happens 
gradually including deterioration or wear and tear.
After looking at the surveyors report and the information provided by Mr and Mrs M, LV felt 
the damage caused by the roof leak had been building up over a period of time. The damage 
was said to have gotten worse. And LV declined the claim as it didnt appear to have 
occurred as the result of a one-off insured event. 
LV accepted the bathroom ceiling damage from the leaking pipe was, on balance, the result 
of an insured peril. But Mr and Mrs M havent accepted the settlement offered as they dont 
feel it is enough to put things right.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs M have said. And Ive looked at the expert 
reports and information from the building contractors whove visited the property. I think LV 
was entitled to rely on its experts opinion and I dont think it was unreasonable to do so. And 
I dont think Mr and Mrs M have thrown sufficient doubt on its conclusions to make me think 
LV should change its position. 
I appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr and Mrs M. They have my sympathies for 
the difficulties theyve been going through. But based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded 
LV has acted unfairly or made a mistake in applying the terms and conditions of the home 
insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman