DRN-4348352
The complaint
Miss B, represented by a third party, complains that Progressive Money Limited was 
irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss B was provided with a £5,000 loan by Progressive Money in February 2018. The loan 
term was 36 months with monthly repayments of around £280. Miss B says that at the time 
of the loan she had other debts and was overdrawn on her current account. She says the 
repayments were unaffordable and she has needed to take out more loans, including payday 
loans to meet her debts. 
Progressive Money issued a final response letter to Miss B in November 2022 not upholding 
her complaint. It said that Miss B applied for a loan in February 2018 saying it was for home 
improvements and debt consolidation. It explained it is a specialist lender providing loans to 
people who may not be able to access loans from other traditional lenders. Progressive 
Money said it carried out a full review of Miss Bs credit lines and a detailed income and 
expenditure assessment before lending and that the loan appeared affordable.
Progressive Money said that Miss Bs account fell into arrears in March 2020, and she 
contacted it to say her circumstances had changed. An arrangement was put in place, but 
Miss B didnt maintain the requirements of the arrangement. Following contact in January 
2021, a further arrangement was put in place and the account was settled in full in June 
2021.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. While he thought the checks carried out by 
Progressive Money before lending were proportionate, he said the results of these showed 
Miss B was struggling financially. Because of this he said there was a significant risk that 
Miss B wouldnt be able to sustainably afford the loan repayments. 
Progressive Money agreed that it had carried out proportionate checks before lending but 
didnt agree that the lending shouldnt have been provided. It said that while Miss Bs credit 
file showed missed payments and her exceeding her credit limits, on the call in February 
2018 Miss B explained the reasons for these issues. It said that the loan it provided was 
used to consolidate other debts and so had it not been provided, Miss B could have been in 
a worse situation. It said that our adjudicator had said that the income and expenditure 
calculations showed the loan to be affordable and it agreed with this and noted that Miss B 
was able to maintain her repayments until March 2020 at which point her circumstances 
changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Before providing the loan, Progressive Money carried out a credit check and a full income 
and expenditure assessment. Miss Bs income was verified through her bank statements. 
Noting the size of the loan and the repayments compared to Miss Bs verified income, I find 
that these checks were proportionate. However, just because I consider the checks 
proportionate this doesnt necessarily mean that I agree the lending should have been 
provided. I have therefore considered the information Progressive Money received through 
its checks to assess whether I consider the lending was responsible.
Miss Bs income was recorded as around £2,500 and this was verified through her bank 
statements. I have looked at the bank statements provided, and I find these show signs that 
Miss B was struggling financially. I say this because she was being charged unarranged 
overdraft fees throughout the period for which the statements were provided, there were 
returned direct debit payments and evidence of payments being made to payday lenders. 
Miss Bs credit file didnt show any defaults or judgments, but it did show that Miss B was in 
arrears on a loan she had taken out in June 2017, that she had taken a further loan out in 
December 2017 and that she was frequently over the credit limit on her credit cards. While 
Miss B did appear to be generally making her priority payments (mortgage and utilities) as 
she was missing payments towards her other credit commitments and exceeding her credit 
limits, I think this should have raised concerns that Miss B wasnt able to manage her current 
financial commitments. 
I note Progressive Moneys comment about it providing credit to customers that may not be 
able to access credit elsewhere, and that it discussed Miss Bs credit file with her. I have 
listened to the call provided and Miss B was asked why she was paying her council tax 
payments on her credit card, and she said she was short that month but said she had now 
paid the amount due for the year. When asked if this was due to anything specific, she 
initially said no, and then mentioned funeral costs for the loss of a family member. Miss B is 
asked about the debt consolidation, and she says that she would be using around £700 to 
repay two payday loans. While I appreciate this may put her in a better position by repaying 
possibly higher cost payday lending, the remainder of the loan, around £4,300 was 
additional lending. 
So, while I note that the income and expenditure suggested the loan repayments would be 
affordable for Miss B, having looked at her bank statements and credit file, I find these raised 
concerns that Miss B was struggling to manage her existing credit commitments. Further 
noting her bank statements showed she was persistently in her overdraft, and this had 
increased in the time period the statements were provided for, I find that Progressive Money 
should have been concerned that any new lending wouldnt be sustainably affordable fo
Putting things right
In this case, I think its fair that Miss B should only have to repay the money she borrowed 
and had the use of. So, I think Progressive Money should refund all of the interest and 
charges Miss B has paid on the loan. 
I understand that the loan has been settled and based on this, I find that Progressive Money 
should:Rework Miss Bs loan removing all interest, fees and charges and treating all 
repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
Any overpayments should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that Progressive Money Limited should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman