DRN-3612177
The complaint
Mr B complains about how ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) administered the transfer of his 
investment account.
He says ITI Capital failed to do this in a competent and timely manner. He says he suffered 
stress as a result. He says the delay caused him financial loss as it resulted in him not 
making profitable trades and pension contributions he would otherwise have made.
What happened
Mr B asked to transfer out his ITI Capital investment account. ITI Capital had just processed 
his request to withdraw cash from his account. Mr B thanked ITI Capital for handling that so 
quickly. He wanted to transfer out the investments too and close the account.
The process started near the start of August 2020 and Mr B complained about progress near 
the end of August. Mr B says it was September before ITI Capital sent a valuation to his new 
account provider. He says ITI Capital then indicated it would act promptly to complete the 
process. He says his new provider in fact sent ITI Capital requests every week without reply.
On 20 October, ITI Capital replied to Mr Bs complaint. It offered him £150 for inconvenience 
or distress suffered. ITI Capital said its delay of the transfer, and failure to give Mr B clear 
information about timescales, was wholly unacceptable. Mr B told ITI Capital he was 
rejecting its offer on the basis that ITI Capital still hadnt told him how much longer it would 
take to complete the transfer. He complained to us a few days later about the matters Ive 
outlined above, as well as what he considered poor security controls on his account.
Despite ITI Capitals October response and apology, the transfer continued to be delayed. 
Mr B chased and enquired about progress weekly or slightly more often. He has told us his 
calls were often not answered and that promised calls didnt materialise. He had anecdotal 
information suggesting he was one of a large number waiting to transfer from ITI Capital to 
his new provider. He asked ITI Capital to respond to this and to his estimates of how much 
longer his transfer might take. When ITI Capital did respond, its response, broadly, was to 
refuse to give a timescale in case it failed to meet it. But it did tell Mr B it was overloaded 
with transfer requests and unable to carry them out in a reasonable time as a result. Mr B 
became concerned from time to time that he was not keeping his place in the queue.
In early November 2020, ITI Capital told Mr B the continued delay was wholly unacceptable 
and that this had been escalated internally. But Mr B still did not receive any update on how 
long things would take. 
Mr B has referred to security, and concerns about his assets being stolen, as being a reason 
he did not place phone trades during the transfer delay. He has also said that during that 
time he had to consider that he might not see his assets again.
At the start of December, Mr B noticed the transfer of some of his holdings had taken place. 
Cash sums were still being transferred and ITI Capital says these also transferred in 
December 2020. The transfer was mostly complete at that point. But it was not yet complete. 
One stock was left. It was worth, in very broad terms, around £500 - so it was a small part of 
Mr Bs overall account value. ITI Capital told Mr B he needed to sell the stock because his 
new account provider wouldnt accept it. The stock was a commonplace holding and Mr Bs 
provider would - and in fact did - accept it. The stock had been subject to a recent corporate 
action and Mr B suggested to ITI Capital that this, and the resulting impact on stock codes, 
was why ITI Capital was having trouble with the new provider accepting the stock. Despite 
the assistance given by Mr B, it wasnt until towards the end of March 2021  around eight 
months after the transfer process began - that ITI Capital managed to transfer this stock and 
complete the transfer.
As a result, it wasnt until this point that ITI Capital gave Mr B the statement of account hed 
been asking for since December 2020, to show the transactions and cash balances on his 
account during its time with ITI Capital. Mr B has said system errors and inaccuracies meant 
he hadnt been able to monitor his account properly while on ITI Capitals system. Ive had 
nothing from ITI Capital to suggest his comments about that arent right. The statement of 
account allowed Mr B to check and reconcile the transferred sums and cash. From what he 
has told us, it allowed him to satisfy himself at that point that the transfer had been correctly 
completed and his funds and stocks correctly accounted for. 
Mr B summarised things at this point as follows:
In summary it has taken 9 months to transfer my account with almost weekly progress 
chasing on my part. There have been many let downs, circular and repeat communications 
along the way with ITI, and numerous commitments broken by the ITI team during this 
unreasonably extended process. The customer service experience overall has been terrible. 
Had I not been so persistent I can only believe this would still be an ongoing and an 
outstanding matter for ITI to resolve.
Mr B told us his time and effort was worth £1000s and a figure between £1000 and £2500 
was more appropriate than the £150 or so offered by ITI Capital. He said his own figures 
took account of stress, work caused, loss of investment opportunity and loss of pension tax 
relief  from trades and pensions contributions he maintained he was unable to make - and 
that true compensation would amount to something like £5000. He pointed out the transfer 
took eight months in total and hed chased it weekly with calls and emails. He said account 
security was questionably lax on more than one occasion and ITI Capital hardly ever made 
any commitments - to respond or to act within certain timescales or to update him - but often 
failed to keep commitments it did make. He has pointed out significant sums were tied up in 
the transfer and he has said the stress of pursuing it was not helpful at a time when hed also 
lost his job. He has said hed spent time and effort checking the transfer was right afterwards 
and ITI Capital hadnt replied to his later request for higher redress.
During our investigation we passed to Mr B information about an offer made by ITI Capital. It 
was for an amount similar to what Mr B was seeking and he told us he was willing to accept 
it. But the offer hadnt been intended for Mr B. ITI Capital hadnt intended to offer or pay him 
that sort of sum. ITI Capital instead reviewed things again and increased its earlier offer from 
£150 to £300. It told us this was suitable redress on the basis that the transfer completed in 
December 2020 and took 11 weeks longer than the eight it said ought to have been taken. 
ITI Capital didnt refer to the further period from December 2020 to March 2021 during which 
the transfer was still not complete or to the problems with the last stock that had caused this.
Mr B rejected this offer as inadequate. So our investigator considered matters.
Our investigators findings, in summary, were that ITI Capital wasnt responsible for Mr B not 
making trading profits or pension contributions in the way he had claimed; that ITI Capital 
had a responsibility to provide Mr B with a service that was fit for purpose and instead had delayed the transfer; that ITI Capital should compensate Mr B for the inconvenience caused 
by this and by the limitations of the service and information it offered him before the transfer; 
that the transfer completed or mostly completed in December 2020 and that £300 was a fair 
and reasonable reflection of the distress and inconvenience ITI Capitals errors caused Mr B.
ITI Capital accepted our investigators conclusions. Mr B disagreed. In particular the amount 
of redress suggested was, he said, paltry. He said he was disgusted with how he and 
others had been treated by ITI Capital and he expressed concern for others who might have 
needed earlier access to their funds or werent as fit, healthy and able as him to deal with 
things. He provided a timeline, noting the transfer completed in March 2021. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it was been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ive since contacted the parties for any further comments concerning in particular the period 
after December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at broadly similar conclusions to those our investigator reached 
and for broadly similar reasons.
It isnt disputed that ITI Capital unreasonably delayed Mr Bs transfer. For context, guidance 
from the government anticipates transfers of this kind taking no longer than 30 days. At the 
time of its initial response and £150 offer, ITI Capital had taken more than twice as long. It 
then took more than another month before reaching a stage when the transfer was mostly - 
but still not entirely - complete. More months passed before it was completed.
Ive considered the consequences of the delay. 
I understand Mr Bs concerns about missed pension contributions mostly focus on the period 
before ITI Capital took on his account, according to clarification he has given us. ITI Capital 
wasnt responsible for Mr B being unable to make pension contributions during that period. 
When ITI Capital did take on his account, most of Mr Bs holdings were transferred to the 
new provider before the end of that tax year and in time for him to fund his pension using 
those assets if he wished. So I dont think ITI Capital was responsible for Mr B losing tax 
relief on pension contributions he might have wanted to make.
As for profits Mr B may have missed due to trades he didnt do and might have done if it had 
not been for ITI Capitals errors and delay  the evidence I have doesnt make me think I 
should make an award for that. I say this first because theres no clear evidence of Mr B 
wanting to make particular trades of particular amounts at particular times during the transfer 
delay  so I have nothing to show that Mr B missed out on particular profits.
Secondly, I dont think it would be fair to award Mr B profits on missed trades without him 
having taken some steps to try to place those trades during the transfer delay. For one thing, 
if he had tried to do so he might have found it possible or ITI Capital might have found a way 
to mitigate his potential loss in another way. ITI Capital says Mr B could have placed trades. 
Mr B has said he wouldnt have trusted ITI Capital to conduct trades correctly  so the lack 
of evidence of him attempting to make trades should be seen in that context. But on balance 
I dont think that is sufficient to make it fair and reasonable for me to award Mr B profits on 
trades he may in different circumstances have made but did not in fact make or try to make.
I do not overlook what Mr B has said about security concerns and also about the likelihood that trading would delay the transfer. Im not persuaded security concerns were at the root of 
Mr Bs reluctance to place trades - or that this consequently gives me reason to award him 
profits on missed trades. I note that he had successfully received funds back from ITI Capital 
at the start of the whole process. I accept trading may well have delayed the transfer more 
but, again, I dont think this is sufficient reason to award profits for trades not placed. Ive 
assumed profitable trades here, but trades when actually placed of course also pose a risk 
of loss along with the possibility of profit. 
The points above apply also to Mr Bs claim that he couldve made pension contributions 
earlier had the transfer taken place earlier. In other words, theres no suggestion Mr B tried 
to sell holdings and realise cash to fund his pension during the delay. Had he attempted this 
and been unable to carry it out due to a failing by ITI Capital, then there would potentially be 
a financial loss to consider, depending on investment movements. But I dont find that to be 
the case here.
Mr B ignored ITI Capital when it suggested he sell his last outstanding stock. It appears he 
was absolutely right to do so. ITI Capital told him the new provider wouldnt accept the stock. 
Mr Bs view that the stock could be accepted proved to be right when it was accepted. But 
ITI Capitals suggestion didnt cause Mr B any loss of profits or other loses, because he 
didnt follow the suggestion.
I conclude that ITI Capitals delays and other failings were not responsible for Mr B suffering 
financial loss, either in lost tax relief or lost investment profits.
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B by ITI Capitals failings and 
delay. I note the sums Mr B has claimed for this. Ive considered what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this particular case. Examples of our approach are published on 
our website and provide context for what I say here. Id mention that those examples dont in 
my view help support an award on the scale Mr B has suggested. 
Mr Bs figures allowed for financial losses such as lost profits. For the reasons Ive already 
given, theres no such allowance in my award. Also, my award is for inconvenience suffered 
by Mr B but it isnt an award for the value of his time in the way he assessed it  which was 
based on his commercial rate. ITI Capitals delay didnt cause Mr B lost earnings or business 
expenses. My award is for inconvenience Mr B was put to by spending time on this matter 
when he understandably wouldve preferred not to. Personal financial affairs are normally 
conducted in personal time  and some inconvenience inevitably and normally arises as a 
result. My award is for the extra inconvenience Mr B suffered as a result of extra and 
excessive time he had to spend due to ITI Capitals failings.
Im also not making an award for Mr B checking the transfer was correct after it was done. In 
my view that is part of the normal administrative inconvenience of making a transfer. I accept 
Mr Bs experience of ITI Capitals failings  particularly the inconsistent system information 
shown before the transfer, but also its handling of the last stock  no doubt made a check 
even more essential from his point of view. But I still think it is normal and sensible to check.
So this isnt something Im compensating Mr B for having done. ITI Capital did, in the end, 
give him a statement to help with the check. In my view ITI Capital was right to do so in the 
circumstances.
Mr B has emphasised that he was in a position to chase and pursue ITI Capital to ensure his 
transaction did eventually go ahead  and he is concerned that others unable to do that 
would be treated to an even worse service. My award here, though, is concerned only with 
the impact on Mr B himself and not on the service or experience anyone else may have had.The above points - and in particular what Ive said about redress being for inconvenience 
rather than for time at commercial rates - largely explain why my award is not of the order 
Mr B is seeking and is instead similar to that suggested by our investigator.
Mr B has said the information ITI Capital collected was excessive. This issue was not at the 
forefront of his complaint to us and was raised later. I wont discuss it in further detail here 
because what I have doesnt persuade me that this was a source of pronounced anxiety for 
Mr B during the transfer delay. So even if ITI Capitals approach wasnt justified, in my view it 
wouldnt change the scale of the award due here for the inconvenience and distress caused 
to Mr B overall by ITI Capitals failings  and in particular the delay. The same applies to 
what Mr B has said about security concerns. Theres little emphasis on those concerns in the 
correspondence Ive seen. 
In saying this, I appreciate Mr B as a matter of courtesy may not have raised every concern 
he had at every stage. Even if Mr B did not articulate it expressly, it doesnt mean he wasnt 
frustrated and dissatisfied by frustrating and unsatisfactory failings. So I note that Mr B was 
able to withdraw cash early on  and was complimentary and generally positive about how 
ITI Capital had handled that - but I dont overlook that he was looking to leave ITI Capital at 
that point and that problems had already begun at that stage (which he has alluded to when 
explaining how he was unable to properly monitor his account during the transfer process).
Regardless of ITI Capitals failings, Mr Bs redundancy and other worries from the Covid 
situation will naturally have caused him anxiety. My award, though, is for distress caused by 
ITI Capitals failings rather than by other distressing matters. In assessing the impact of 
ITI Capitals failings on Mr B, I of course take account of his circumstances  in which I think 
the delay is likely to have understandably caused some stress, like he has said.
That said, the main impact on Mr B was inconvenience due to delay and inaction causing 
him to have to regularly chase progress  and annoyance and exasperation that his chasing, 
although from time to time resulting in suggestions things might be speeded up, in fact 
produced no noticeable effect in terms of speeding things up. Mr B had significant holdings 
with ITI Capital and so in my view it was reasonable that he chased things up like he did and 
entirely understandable that he wanted reassurance about timescales. If it had not been for 
ITI Capitals delays, Mr B would not have been put to that trouble or suffered that frustration.
I dont overlook that Mr B has said a worst-case scenario was he would not get his holdings 
back. He didnt highlight this concern in what he sent at the time. Nor was it emphasised in 
his complaint, to my mind. He referred to it in connection with how he decided on his pension 
funding. Taking everything into account, Ive not placed emphasis on this point in arriving at 
my award. Rather it is the inconvenience and frustration caused by the delay, and the stress 
Mr B suffered by having to deal with that, to which Ive given more weight.
ITI Capital did tell Mr B it was struggling to process transfers in a timely way. So Mr B was 
given to expect delay. He was aware there were many other transfers waiting  and aware 
some were getting completed from time to time. But this doesnt alter that ITI Capital failed to 
do what it ought to have done  and so caused continued frustrating inconvenience for Mr B. 
So in my view ITI Capital was right to apologise and offer compensation for inconvenience in 
its final response letter. The inconvenience continued, so ITI Capital was in my view right to 
increase its offer later. 
In increasing its offer, ITI Capital in my view didnt acknowledge or take account of the 
months after December 2020 when Mr B continued to suffer delays. By then most of the 
transfer had been done and the amount outstanding was much smaller. But Mr B couldnt 
draw a line under the transfer process or check it until it was complete, and more delay at that stage must have been even more frustrating. Also its hard to disagree with Mr Bs view 
at the time that the stock ITI Capital was having difficulty transferring was a common one 
and so very unlikely to not be acceptable to the new provider in the way ITI Capital seemed 
to believe. Its understandable that this added to Mr Bs frustration during that later period.
In summary, I conclude that ITI Capitals delays and failings did not cause Mr B financial loss 
for which it would be fair to ask ITI Capital to compensate him. But I conclude that ITI Capital 
was at fault for delaying the transfer and ought to compensate Mr B for the inconvenience 
and distress this caused him. I think £400 is fair and reasonable compensation for this in all 
the circumstances here.
So I uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons and on the basis Ive given above.
Putting things right
To put things right, ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr B £400 for the inconvenience and 
distress ITI Capitals failings caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
order ITI Capital Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman