DRN-2857059
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S have complained about how Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) dealt with 
a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B and Mr S contacted Soteria because water was entering their home due to 
maintenance issues with their neighbours property, including the guttering and flashing. 
Soteria accepted the claim as accidental damage.
Soteria arranged for a loss adjuster to visit. The loss adjuster found that the source of the 
internal damage was the neighbours guttering, which the neighbours needed to deal with. 
The loss adjuster said a cash settlement should be made for the internal damage, as the 
repair couldnt take place until the neighbour had fixed the guttering.
Miss B and Mr S contacted Soteria as they wanted the external damage to be covered as 
part of the claim. They also said they didnt think the loss adjuster had properly assessed the 
extent of the internal damage, as a decorator had told them the plaster was too wet and 
would need to be replaced. They said the loss adjuster hadnt brought the right equipment 
with him and, although there were damp readings in the report, he hadnt taken any 
measurements.
Soteria agreed to send a second loss adjuster and asked Miss B and Mr S to provide some 
quotes for the work. However, a few months later, when Miss B and Mr S contacted Soteria 
to find out what was happening with their claim, Soteria told them the claim had been closed 
because Miss B and Mr S hadnt been in contact for a while. Soteria agreed to re-open the 
claim, including for the external damage, and arranged for a loss adjuster to visit.
When the loss adjuster visited he said he couldnt assess the external damage. He also said 
the internal damage had got worse but couldnt be repaired until the neighbour had dealt 
with the guttering. Following the visit, Soteria increased the cash settlement for the internal 
damage. It also offered a cash settlement for the damage to the render. As the loss adjuster 
hadnt been able to assess the guttering, Soteria arranged for a buildings surveyor to visit to 
assess this. The surveyor found a range of maintenance issues with the guttering, including 
water running over the top of it because of moss and debris, as well as an issue with the 
condition of the lead. The guttering damage was declined as it was assessed to be a 
maintenance issue. 
Miss B and Mr S complained to Soteria about the guttering being declined. Soteria said the 
guttering wasnt covered as this was a maintenance issue. However, Soteria accepted there 
had been a range of issues with progressing the claim and, as a result, offered £250 
compensation. It also said that if Miss B and Mr S could provide further evidence about the 
cause of damage to their guttering, it would consider it.
A few months later, Miss B and Mr S complained again to Soteria about the claim as they 
had concerns about what how the guttering damage was assessed. When Soteria replied it 
maintained its decision to decline the claim for the guttering and said it had sufficient 
evidence to support this decision.
So, Miss B and Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator said it was reasonable for 
Soteria to decline the claim for the damage to the guttering. However, she thought there had 
been issues with the way the claim was handled, including when it was closed part way 
through, but that the £250 compensation Soteria had already offered was appropriate in the 
circumstances.
As Miss B and Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our investigator, I dont require Soteria to do anything further. I will 
explain why.
Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for Soteria to decline the damage for Miss B and Mr 
Ss guttering. Soteria arranged for two loss adjusters and a buildings surveyor to visit. Im 
aware that Soteria has said, based on the reported damage, it should have sent the surveyor 
earlier in the process. From what Ive seen, the surveyor carried out a detailed assessment, 
which included photos using a telescopic camera. The surveyor found a range of issues with 
the guttering along the whole row of houses, but also maintenance issues that were specific 
to Miss B and Mr Ss home, including the degrading of the lead over time and stress 
fractures.
Ive also read the roof report provided by Miss B and Mr S, which included photos taken on a 
pole camera. This said:
Both the front and rear gutters were found to be in a poor condition. All gutters were noted 
to be blocked in places containing debris and foliage, this had also blocked the downpipes 
resulting in the gutters holding water  Cracking and slipping of the lead lining was noted 
which has occurred as a result of the age of the lead and slight movement of the stone 
gutters  the lead lining was noted to be lifting from the stone gutters which was a result of 
shrinkage through age and deterioration  A wall climbing plant was noted on the front 
elevation which was growing between the stone gutter structure and the lead lining. As a 
result, the lead had lifted from the stone guttering.
So, I think its clear there were a range of guttering issues and these were the result of age 
and movement, as well as a climbing plant. None of these would be considered to be 
accidental damage. As a result, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the damage 
was caused by an insured event. So, I think it was reasonable for Soteria to decline the 
claim for the guttering.
Ive also looked at how the claim was handled. As part of this, I listened to a phone call in 
which both Miss B and Mr S spoke to a Soteria claim handler. In my view, this was a difficult 
conversation for all parties. However, the claim handler tried to address the issues raised by 
Miss B and Mr S, but was unable to do everything that they wanted. The conversation lasted 
about 45 minutes and the call handler said she had discussed everything she could and that 
she was going to end the call. In the circumstances, I think the call handler acted reasonably 
in how she brought the call to an end.Miss B and Mr S also told Soteria they had concerns about the first loss adjusters visit. 
Soteria said it would arrange for another assessment, which I think was a reasonable 
response. However, this then doesnt seem to have been arranged until Miss B and Mr S 
followed up a few months later, at which point they found Soteria had closed that claim. Miss 
B and Mr S had also been asked to submit quotes, which they had sent to a London 
address. Soteria had no record of having received them. I dont know why the reports dont 
seem to have been received. But I think that if Soteria had followed up with Miss B and Mr S 
before closing the claim, this would have highlighted the outstanding issues, including that 
Soteria hadnt arranged for a new visit. 
Following the second loss adjusters visit, Soteria increased the cash settlement for the 
internal damage. So, although there were potential issues with how the first loss adjuster 
carried out their assessment, I think Soteria took steps to ensure the cash settlement 
allowed Miss B and Mr S to repair all of the internal damage that formed part of the claim. 
Soteria also agreed to cover the render. 
Miss B and Mr S also said the guttering should have been assessed by climbing a ladder, 
rather than relying on photos taken with a pole camera. However, looking at the surveyors 
report, this described the damage and what caused it, along with photos to illustrate this. I 
dont think the surveyor was required to climb to roof level in order to carry out the survey. 
Im also aware that Miss B and Mr S were concerned that the reports were inaccurate and 
that a photo was attributed to the wrong house. But Im satisfied that Soteria had enough 
information available to show the cause of the damage and that it was reasonable for it to 
decide this was due to wear and tear.
Ive thought about the issues with the service Miss B and Mr S received as part of their 
claim. In the circumstances, I think the £250 compensation offered by Soteria was sufficient 
to address the issues. This is because I think this recognised the distress and inconvenience 
caused by issues such as closing the claim after a few months and the multiple visits. But, 
Soteria also took steps to ensure it had fairly assessed the claim, including what damage 
formed part of the claim, and that the cash settlement was adequate to cover the insured 
damage. As a result, I dont require Soteria to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Soteria Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman