DRN-3427396
Complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Background
Around August 2018, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In 2020 Mr C made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. He said that P had 
made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr C to enter into the contract with P. He 
has made the following points:
the system would be pay for itself
he would receive between £800 to £1000 a year from the solar panel system 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
Hed never seen the sales documents relied on by our investigator to show that the 
system would not pay for itself.
His testimony regarding the income hed receive of around £800 to £1,000 hadnt 
been considered.
He relied on the verbal representations made by the installer. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The consumer says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr C and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and a solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, 
to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
I appreciate Mr C says he doesnt recall seeing this document. But having thought carefully 
about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the 
meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the consumers version of events when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr C was told that the cost of the system was £10,974. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £10,974. The monthly payment was £222.18 in his credit 
agreement. I understand that Mr C took a payment deferral of 2 months, which isnt included in the quote prepared for the sales meeting, so his quote shows a monthly payment which is 
marginally different at £219.97.
The total amount of credit in his credit agreement is £10,874 (which was the cash price less 
a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £13,370.80.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due and broadly how much it 
would be. The quote makes this clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that 
the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost 
of the system was £10,974, it would cost Mr C more than this as he had decided to pay for it 
with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr C has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or it would 
pay for itself by the benefit he would receive from the solar panel system  which includes 
savings on bills as well as FIT payments. He has specified that he was told the income hed 
receive would be between £800 to £1000 a year. So, Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £157.44, which results in an average monthly income of £13.12. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of around £222.18 ( as explained above Mr Cs quote 
shows a monthly payment which is marginally different at £219.97). 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £268.25 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr C the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £579.29. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings provided by the system.
Ive seen no documentary evidence to support Mr Cs testimony that he was told the benefits 
he would receive would amount to anywhere near £800 to £1,000. As explained above, the 
documents show his yearly income was expected to be around £579.29. However, even if 
he was told hed receive around £1000 a year, bearing in mind it was made clear to him that 
his monthly loan payments were around £222 a month, I think he would have recognised 
that even this £1000 would not cover his yearly loan payments, which would have amounted 
to over £2,000. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 60 monthly payments of £219.97. For each year of the 5-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £219.97, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT income 
and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings generated by the system.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr C could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2403.67 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Cs FIT reading and can see that his system, on average, has generated 
2954.038 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman