DRN-2527908
The complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Miss M six loans during the period September 2016 - April 2017. All 
the loans were due to repaid in six monthly instalments. 
Miss M paid some loans early  but she hasnt been able to pay all her loans.
Heres a chart showing some of the main loan details as at the start of this complaint:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment*
1 09/09/2016 20/10/2016 6 £50.00 £21.20
2 20/10/2016 09/03/2017 6 £120.00 £50.88
3 09/03/2017 25/03/2017 6 £100.00 £42.40
4 20/03/2017 25/03/2017 6 £70.00 £67.60
5 25/03/2017 Sold 6 £300.00 £127.20
6 05/04/2017 Outstanding 6 £60.00 £152.64
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
After carefully reviewing all the available information and reconsidering this complaint, our 
adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream to 
have provided loans 15. 
But he said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 6 to Miss M. He explained why 
and set out the steps he said Lending Stream should take to put things right for Miss M.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of what our adjudicator had said and 
told us that it was willing to accept the outcome of our adjudicators finding. 
Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this 
information to Miss M. 
Miss M isnt happy with this proposed settlement. 
She mainly says that her loan history with Lending Stream showed all the loans were 
unaffordable for her and that she was borrowing to repay previous loans. 
So she feels that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided her with any of these loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. 
Ive independently looked at Miss Ms complaint afresh and considered all the loans that 
Lending Stream provided to her. Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator  and for the 
same reasons that the adjudicator has explained. But Ill say a bit more about why I say this 
 and even though its not the outcome Miss M is looking for, I hope this is helpful in 
explaining my decision.Loans 1-3
Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for Miss M, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. 
I've taken into account the loan repayment amounts and what was apparent about Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time.
Loan 1 looked easily affordable for Miss M based on what shed told Lending Stream about 
her financial situation. And, as this was her first loan, I dont think Lending Stream had any 
reason to think it needed to ask for any more information from Miss M or check what she 
was saying about her circumstances. 
In the event Miss M repaid loan 1 early. And although Miss M took out loan 2 the same day 
she repaid her first loan, and it was for quite a lot more money, these things on their own, at 
this early stage in the relationship between Lending Stream and Miss M, arent enough to 
have alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that Miss M mightve been finding it hard to 
repay her borrowing. And loan 2 should still have been comfortably affordable for Miss M 
looking at the financial information Lending Stream had relied on  as I think it was entitled 
to do. 
After shed been paying loan 2 for around five months, Miss M repaid it early and took out 
loan 3 around the same time. She told Lending Stream that her take home pay had gone up 
since shed taken out her first two loans. Lending Stream adjusted this figure downwards to 
give a safety margin when thinking about what Miss M would be able to repay sustainably. 
And she was applying to borrow a smaller amount than the loan shed just repaid. Taking 
into account what Miss M told Lending Stream about her overall expenses, including an 
amount of £25 she told Lending Stream she was paying for other credit, this still left Miss M 
with around £805. So the monthly repayments for loan 3 wouldve appeared to be 
comfortable affordable for her.
Overall, looking at the repayments that Miss M needed to make on the first three loans, the 
amounts wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income 
recorded for her. And I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask 
Miss M for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. 
So thats why Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans 1 - 3.
loan 4
Miss M applied to borrow loan 4 before shed finished paying loan 3  but she told Lending 
Stream her income had gone up significantly. Lending Stream adjusted downwards this 
figure when assessing what Miss M could afford to borrow  but even after doing this, it still 
looked like she had more money to spend that month. And although Miss M said her 
spending on other credit had increased quite substantially (up to £175), after paying for this 
borrowing and all the other expenses she mentioned to Lending Stream, Miss M shouldve 
still had more than £1280 left over to pay for this borrowing.
Ive thought carefully about whether Lending Stream shouldve questioned why someone 
with the level of income that Miss M had declared would need to borrow loan 4. The 
information Miss M gave Lending Stream suggested she had ample disposable income and 
so no clear need to take out expensive short term borrowing.I think at this point Lending Stream shouldve thought about whether it could safely rely just 
on what Miss M had said and considered asking her more searching questions than it did to 
ensure that it had a proper understanding of her financial situation. 
Miss M has sent me some bank statements from around this time which show me in more 
detail what she was spending her money on. And this has given me some insight into her 
financial situation at the time. 
Having thought carefully about this information, I havent seen enough to show that Lending 
Stream shouldve decided not to agree this loan had it asked all the questions I think it 
shouldve done.
For this reason, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about loan 4.
loan 5
Looking at the information Lending Stream had gathered during Miss Ms application for this 
loan, I can see that she reported less income  a figure now around £1600. But her 
anticipated spending on other credit had gone down to around £25. 
After comparing her reported income with her expected expenses and taking into account 
the monthly repayments Miss M would have to make on loan 5, she ought to have had more 
than £750 left over after paying for this loan.  
But this loan was by far the biggest single amount Miss M applied to borrow  and she took it 
out around the same time she repaid loans 3 and 4. 
So I think its fair to say that Lending Stream ought to have taken steps to check what Miss 
M had said about her finances to make sure that it had a proper understanding of Miss Ms 
financial situation from this point on. 
It doesnt look like this happened. But it makes no overall difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. Thats because I havent seen enough to show that Lending Stream shouldve 
decided not to agree this loan had it done all the checks it shouldve carried out.
For this reason, Im not planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 5.
loan 6
Like our adjudicator, I think by loan 6 Lending Stream shouldve realised that Miss Ms 
overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-term 
loans. So I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 6 to Miss M. 
As Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the 
steps he suggested to put things right for Miss M, I dont think I need to say more about why 
its fair to uphold this loan. 
And I agree with the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint. Its in line with 
our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these circumstances, 
bearing in mind that Miss M has had the benefit of the money she borrowed.
So I think Lending Stream should now do what it has agreed to do to put things right. 
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Miss M, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly as a relationship existed 
between Miss M and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So Lending Stream should do the following in respect of loan 6: 
Lending Stream should buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Or if Lending Stream isnt able to buy back the debt, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 6, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. Lending Stream has already worked out that doing this results in Miss M having 
made overpayments so these should be refunded to Miss M with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Remove all entries for loan 6 from Miss Ms credit file  as Lending Stream has said 
it will do. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Ms complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman