DRN-2913257
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr C had a premier banking relationship with Barclays. On 2 June 2020, he sent an email to 
Barclays regarding an interest error on his savings account. In it, he referred to his previous 
relationship manager. On 19 June 2020, they gave him two months notice to close his 
accounts. On 23 June 2020, Barclays sent a further letter confirming their decision.
Mr C complains that he was treated unfairly by Barclays. He says he referred to the previous 
relationship manager by using a term of endearment, whereas Barclays had unreasonably 
interpreted it as a racially insensitive term. He says he was unaware that it could be thought 
of as such  and Barclays had acted in a heavy-handed manner. He feels victimised. He 
says hes a gentleman and would never behave in such a manner. The whole episode has 
had a significant affect on him personally. Also, Barclays final response and notice to close 
letters were sent to the next-door address  an office address which was closed due to 
lockdown. He incurred some financial penalties when transferring his savings accounts. 
Barclays said the relationship manager in question found the term to be offensive. Mr C had 
never referred to him in that way previously, nor to any other member of staff. They therefore 
wrote to Mr C on 19 June 2020 and gave two months notice to close his accounts. This was 
in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclays terms and 
conditions included their right to close Mr Cs accounts. She noted that Barclays apologised 
for sending the two letters to the wrong address, and that the interest penalties had been 
reimbursed by Barclays. Whether or not the term used by Mr C was intended to be offensive, 
it had been taken to be so, and so Barclays had exercised their right to close Mr Cs 
accounts. 
Mr C asked that an ombudsman look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a difficult and sensitive complaint. I want to assure Mr C that Ive read all his 
testimonies and arguments. I appreciate that he feels wronged, and that he meant no 
offence in using the term he did in his email. He feels that Barclays have over-reacted and 
acted in a heavy-handed way. He feels hes been unfairly victimised. I can also see that he 
enjoyed a close relationship with Barclays over many years. 
Its impossible for me to make a judgement on what Mr C intended by his remark about his 
previous relationship manager. Mr C says he wasnt aware of its connotation, and I can see 
he argues strongly that that was the case. But equally, Barclays say that the member of staff 
in question felt offended. And they say hed never used the term before. And  I can see he 
used it twice in an email which was asking for an interest error by the relationship manager 
to be corrected. So  looking at what happened, there are, frankly, valid arguments on both 
sides here.
But  Barclays do have the right to close Mr Cs accounts if they wish as their terms and 
conditions say: 
Closing your account, ending a service or leaving Barclays
When we can close an account or end a service:
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked to your account will 
stop at the same time. However, we may end this agreement immediately or on less notice 
(and stop providing services and close your account) if we reasonably believe you have 
seriously or persistently broken any terms of the agreement or we have reasonable grounds 
for thinking you have done any of the following things, which you must not do:
You put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty 
that applies to us if we maintain your account.
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
And  Barclays did give Mr C the required two months notice. So  they followed their terms 
and conditions. 
I can see that Barclays made the necessary refunds to reimburse Mr C for the penalties 
when he transferred his savings accounts. Mr C also complains that Barclays two letters 
dated 19 June 2020 were addressed to the next-door office address. Barclays apologised for 
this and Mr C told us hed got the letters, unopened  so there wasnt any adverse effect 
here. Mr C says he didnt receive Barclays letter dated 23 June 2020  and had he done so, 
he might have felt differently. Ive considered this  the letter was sent to the correct address 
and said, I understand you didnt mean to cause any harm with the expression used, 
however, I hope you can understand why this reference can be considered as offensive and 
the reason why we queried this with you. But  the letter goes on to say the decision to 
terminate your banking relationship with us remains and your accounts with us will close on 
19 August 2020. I know this is not the decision you were hoping for and Im sorry you remain 
disappointed. Id like to reassure you that this decision has been reviewed by senior 
colleagues and we believe this to be the best course of action for both parties. So  given 
that the outcome was the same, Im not persuaded that this wouldve made Mr C feel any 
differently about what happened.
I repeat  I can see and appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about his complaint. But  in all 
the circumstances, allow me to say that I think it best if he finds a way to put what happened 
behind him and move forward. And so  and Mr C will be disappointed by this  Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman