DRN-3824693
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) wont refund the 
cost of a hotel booking, he made using his credit card.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr S booked a hotel room abroad, using his Virgin credit card. He used an 
online booking agent (who Ill call A), but the card payment was made directly to the hotel.
Mr S was unhappy with his stay at the hotel, he raised the following issues;
poor housekeeping- no soap provided, the room was cleaned once, the bin emptied 
once, and no fresh towels were provided during his stay
poor customer service- rude staff at breakfast and late calls from reception
misleading information on the website, which said breakfast was charged at 7 Euros, 
but the hotel charged 8 euros.
Mr S says he complained to the hotel staff at the time and to A on his return, but no 
resolution was reached, he asked Virgin to help with getting a refund. 
Virgin initially declined Mr S claim on the basis he had been offered a refund by A, but 
instead wanted a credit voucher. Mr S hadnt been offered a refund by A. It later declined the 
chargeback claim, as it said Mr S had stayed at the hotel for the full duration of his booking.
Virgin also reviewed Mr Ss claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75). It thought the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link for a valid section 75, had 
been broken because Mr S had booked the hotel room using As website, and not directly 
with the hotel, in addition it didnt think there was any evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the hotel.
Mr S complained to Virgin, he was unhappy with the handling of his claim. Virgin agreed that 
it made a mistake when it said a refund had been offered by A and apologised for the delay 
in considering his claim. It credited £100 to his credit card account.
Mr S remained unhappy; he asked our service to look into his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt a valid chargeback reason. And she didnt 
think there was enough evidence to show there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
 
Mr S disagreed, he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a payment made, in part or whole, with 
a credit card, as is the case here the card provider can consider the dispute under two 
guises- chargeback and a section 75 claim.
chargeback
  
Chargeback is a process provided by Mr S card scheme - in this case MasterCard. It allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be refunded in a number of situations including where 
goods or services arent provided, where goods or services are defective or where goods or 
services arent as described.
 
There's no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund because chargebacks may be defended by merchants. If a financial 
business thinks that a claim won't be successful, it doesnt have to raise a chargeback but 
where theres a reasonable chance of success, wed expect a financial business to bring a 
chargeback.
Virgin said Mr S stayed at the hotel for the full six-night duration, using its services, so it 
didnt raise a chargeback as hed received the service paid for, so wouldnt be successful. 
Mr S booked to stay at the hotel between 30 October 2021 to 5 November 2021 and from 
the information Ive seen he stayed for this duration. And the first evidence I have of Mr S 
complaining to the hotel is an email on 5 November 2021, after checking out. 
Id expect Mr S to have raised any concerns during his stay, to give the hotel a chance to put 
things right. When we asked Mr S about this, he said hed complained to reception every day 
during his stay, but Ive not seen anything to confirm this, and I note he didnt mention this in 
any of his emails to the hotel or Virgin. Because of this I think its likely that the hotel would 
have defended a chargeback and I dont think a chargeback would have been successful. In 
the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Virgin not to initiate a chargeback.
section 75
In certain circumstances section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr S to hold Virgin liable for 
breaches of contract or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made with the 
hotel.
Virgin didnt think section 75 was available to Mr S, because for there to be a valid section 
75 claim there needs to be what is known as a DCS relationship between the parties. Here, 
the debtor would be Mr S, the creditor would be Virgin and the supplier would be the hotel. 
But Mr S booked the hotel online through, A, so Virgin thought this broke the link. However, I 
can see from Mr S bank statement that although Mr S booked via A, the payment was made 
directly to the hotel, A simply collected and passed Mr S card details to the hotel, so Im 
satisfied the DCS relationship for a section 75 claim remains intact. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter an 
agreement and the consumer suffers loss because of the misrepresentation.
 Mr S says the breakfast price at the hotel was misrepresented as costing 7 euros, when the 
hotel charged 8 euros. I can see that both A and the hotel list the breakfast charge as 7 eros 
on their websites, and I can see a single charge of 8 euros by the hotel on the bank 
statement Mr S provided. However, Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to confirm what this 
charge was for. In any event, even if I was satisfied the hotel charged 8 euros for breakfast, I 
dont think this was the main reason for him booking the hotel, so I dont think this amounts 
to a misrepresentation.
I can see the hotel is advertised as having daily housekeeping, there are no details given 
about what this would include, but Mr S says the room was only cleaned once, he wasnt 
provided with fresh towels and the bin was only changed once during his stay. Even if I were 
to accept that a false statement had been made, again Im not persuaded that the daily 
housekeeping was a main reason for Mr S booking with the hotel, so I dont think I can fairly 
say there has been a misrepresentation here.
Breach of contract
Ive also considered whether the issues raised by Mr S about the standard of housekeeping, 
the staff calling him late and the staff rudeness amount to a breach of contract.
 
Mr S hasnt provided supporting evidence (like videos or photographs) of the issues he 
described. So, whilst I appreciate that he didnt enjoy his stay at the hotel and the service 
didnt meet the standard he expected, Im not persuaded the service received fell below the 
standard a reasonable person would expect, taking into account the description of the hotel 
and the £38.72 per night cost of Mr S hotel accommodation. I dont think there is enough 
evidence to conclude there was a breach of contract here. 
Im sorry Mr S was disappointed with his experience at his hotel, however Im not persuaded 
that there is sufficient evidence of either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, so in 
the circumstances, I dont think Virgins decision to reject his section 75 claim was 
unreasonable.
customer service
Mr S was unhappy with the way Virgin handled his claim. It apologised for initially declining 
his claim because it incorrectly thought A had offered a refund. It credited £100 to Mr S 
credit card account to reflect this. I think this is fair, and I dont think Virgin has to do anything 
further, with respect to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman