DRN-3551347
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unreasonably refused to 
pay his claim and cancelled his motor policy as if it never existed, because he didnt declare 
his named drivers motor convictions.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident in November 2021. In validating his claim, Advantage 
found out that Mr W hadnt disclosed his named drivers (who was his father) motoring 
convictions for speeding. 
Advantage said this was a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and on that basis it was entitled to 
cancel Mr Ws policy as if it had never existed and refund him the premium he had paid. This 
also meant he wouldnt deal with his claim. 
Mr W thought this was very unfair as his father wasnt involved in the accident. Advantage 
wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us.
 
The investigator was of the view it should be upheld. Advantage didnt agree so Mr Ws 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
CIDRA imposes duties on both the insurer and the consumer. For the consumer it is to 
answer all the questions asked on the application truthfully and honestly so as to take 
reasonably care not to make a misrepresentation. And for the insurer, the questions asked 
must be clear and unambiguous. 
Certainly, as detailed in the investigators view the questions Advantage asked were clear as 
it specifically asked if the named driver had any driving related convictions, endorsements, 
penalties, disqualifications or bans in the past five years. Sadly, Mr Ws father did have 
speeding convictions with the last five years and Mr W didnt disclose them. 
This means under CIDRA because Advantage have shown us that it wouldnt have insured 
Mr Ws father as a named driver with these speeding convictions, this is a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And I agree it would be classed as careless one, rather than deliberate.
On this basis Advantage thought it was entitled to cancel the policy as if it never existed and 
refund the premium Mr W paid. But under CIDRA, the insurer can only do this if it can show 
it wouldnt have offered to insure Mr W too, not just his father. However 
Advantage has shown us that it would have accepted Mr Ws application, just not with his 
father given the speeding convictions as a named driver.
On that basis our considered stance is that its not reasonable or fair to cancel Mr Ws policy 
and the cover it provided in circumstances like this. It was Mr W who was involved in the 
accident and it was his car that was damaged. His father had nothing to do with this at all 
and wasnt involved.  Therefore, I consider all that was reasonable for Advantage to do was 
to remove Mr Ws father from cover and adjust the premium accordingly. So, its on this 
basis that I consider this complaint should be upheld.
Ive read Advantages arguments that the misrepresentation concerns the terms of the 
policy. However, if which is the case, it would have insured Mr W, on his own, without his 
father as the named driver, it is disproportionally unfair to take advantage in withdrawing all 
cover in the manner it wished to. Therefore, it is more reasonable if it continues to insure Mr 
W. If Mr Ws father had been the one involved in the accident, then I would have most likely 
agreed with the stance Advantage wished to take.
 
So, Advantage should now readjust the premium. If the premium would have be lower than 
what Mr W was going to pay, it should consider paying the claim in full subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If the premium would have been more 
expensive that what Mr W was going to pay, Advantage remains within its right under CIDRA 
to consider paying the claim proportionately to the increased premium. Obviously since 
Advantage refunded the premium Mr W had paid, the premium amount plus of course the 
excess should be deducted from any settlement amount.
Whilst it wasnt Advantages fault that Mr W didnt answer the questions asked truthfully and 
honestly, the fact that it didnt simply remove his father and readjust the premium and deal 
with his claim, did cause Mr W some considerable inconvenience and upset. I consider the 
£200 compensation suggested by the investigator to be reasonable and in line with other 
awards I have made in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reinstate Mr Ws policy with the premium adjusted, given the removal of his father as 
a named driver.
Reconsider Mr Ws claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy with a view to paying it.
If the premium would now be higher than what Mr W had agreed to pay, Advantage 
can deal with his claim on a proportionate basis as detailed in CIDRA. If the premium 
would be lower it should deal with his claim in full. The premium and the excess 
should also be deducted from any payment. 
Pay Mr W the sum of £200 compensation for the inconvenience and upset of 
cancelling his policy as if it had never existed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman