DRN-2228067
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). He paid a monthly fee for this account which 
came with a number of benefits.
What happened
Mr P says that Halifax told him he had to get an URCA so that he could get an overdraft on 
his account. Mr P has said that he did not need any of the benefits that the account came 
with.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps complaint. He did not think that the URCA was 
mis-sold. Mr P did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. 
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr P, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he 
was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have come 
to this conclusion. 
Mr P says that Halifax told him he had to get the URCA so that he could get an overdraft. But 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr P originally opened his account as a fee-free 
account and this account had an overdraft facility on it of £100. And I can see that he 
extensively used this facility prior to the upgrade. I can also see that when the URCA was sold 
to Mr P, his overdraft facility remained the same at £100.
As such, based on this information, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr P, as he recalls, was 
misled into thinking that agreeing to the URCA was his only option to get an overdraft. So I 
think that Mr P was aware, at the time of the sale, that he could get an overdraft on a fee-
free account and that he chose to upgrade to the URCA for some other reason knowing that 
he did not have to.
Mr Ps recollections of the sale seem to centre around needing the URCA for an overdraft. 
And at the time, Halifax charged £1 for every day that an account holder used a planned 
overdraft on a fee-free account. Whereas the URCA offered, amongst other benefits, up to 
£300 interest and fee free overdraft facility (limit subject to approval), in return for a £15 
monthly fee. So if Mr Ps account went overdrawn up to his agreed limit (£100 at the time of 
taking out the account) for 15 days or more in a month, the URCA wouldve worked out 
cheaper than if Mr P kept his account as a fee-free one and paid the £1 daily overdraft fee 
instead. 
Having looked at Mr Ps bank statements, I can see that he was extensively using his 
overdraft. In fact in the months prior to taking out the account, Mr P was being charged more 
than £15 a month in planned overdraft fees. By taking out the URCA, Mr P was avoiding 
those daily overdraft fees and potentially saving money. So, I think its likely that Mr P took 
out the account in order to save money on this overdraft, rather than to get an overdraft 
facility that he already held.
I understand that Mr P says he did not need any of the other benefits that the account came 
with. But given the above, I think that he took out the account to save money on this 
overdraft, rather than for the insurance benefits that the account came with. And as the 
account came as a package, Mr P was not able to pick and choose what it came with. So I 
dont think that this means that the account was mis-sold.
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr P everything it shouldve about the packaged bank 
account. But I havent seen anything to make me think that he wouldnt have taken out the 
URCA had he been told everything about the account. 
So having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mr P. 
I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr P the account fees 
that hes been charged whilst hes held the URCA.
I completely understand that this will be frustrating to Mr P as he strongly feels that his 
account was mis-sold. But for the reasons set out above I dont think that it was. This final 
decision represents the end of our services process. If he decides not to accept it, he 
remains free to take any further action he so wishes to about the case elsewhere, including 
in the courts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman