DRN-1700815
The complaint
Mrs S complains that St Andrews Insurance PLC (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2006 in connection with 
her mortgage.
She also complains that she wrote to St Andrews Insurance to cancel the policy payments 
in May 2018, but they did not cancel it until she wrote again in November 2018. She wants 
the premiums refunded.
What happened
Mrs S took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover alongside her mortgage. 
The policy was for Mrs S and she paid a monthly amount for the policy. She bought this 
policy during a telephone call around one year after she had started her mortgage in 
2005. 
Mrs S complained that she didnt know the policy was optional; she says she was told she 
had to have it; it wasnt suitable for her and she didnt need it. So she concludes the policy 
was mis-sold.
In respect of the cancellation, St Andrews Insurance said it did not receive a letter of 
cancellation until November 2018 and the policy was cancelled soon after that. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like Mrs S 
was offered an optional policy and it was suitable for her needs when it was taken out. 
Our adjudicator said the information might have been clearer but concludes Mrs S 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mrs S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the PPI mis-sale complaint to be 
looked at again.
St Andrews Insurance has taken responsibility for the complaint. So, for ease, I will refer to 
St Andrews Insurance as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the 
PPI section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss mis-sale complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether St Andrews Insurance made Mrs S aware the policy was optional. 
She said she didnt know it was an optional product and she thought she had to have PPI to 
get the mortgage. However, it does seem that Mrs S bought the policy around one year 
after she had taken out her mortgage. So I dont think it is likely she was told she had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage  because, of course, she already had the mortgage. So I 
think the policy was presented as an optional product and Mrs S chose to have it added to 
her mortgage account.
St Andrews Insurance said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be 
suitable for Mrs Ss needs. In this case, I think it was suitable for Mrs S because she was 
eligible for the PPI policy, it seems the policy was affordable for her at the time and, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policy.
I then looked into her financial circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy 
was still suitable for her.
Mrs S said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits if 
she was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she also had around £5,000.00 in 
savings. 
However, having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mrs S probably 
thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee benefits. I 
say this because the PPI could have paid out for longer than her employee benefits at a 
time when she might have needed it most. So I dont think her employee benefits made the 
policy unsuitable.
I also think it was useful for Mrs S to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage 
repayments instead of using her savings which could be used for other expenses. So I 
dont think her finances at the time of the sale made the policy unsuitable.
I also looked at whether St Andrews Insurance gave Mrs S enough clear information about 
the policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set these 
out. But having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to 
her in the meeting. So as Ive decided she chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and 
affordable for her, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and 
benefits would have put her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions and limitations were brought to Mrs Ss attention. But as 
she wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations to the policy, I dont think she 
would have decided not to buy PPI even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what she said about the policy not 
being shown as optional and her finances being enough at the time. But, taking everything 
into account, I think she was aware PPI was optional. I think that it was suitable for her 
financial circumstances and I think she had enough information to make a decision about 
it. So as her points dont change my decision, Im not going to uphold this mis-sale 
complaint.
I also looked at Mrs Ss complaint that the insurance had not been cancelled when she 
wrote asking for it to be cancelled in May 2018. Mrs S produced a copy of a letter which 
clearly asked for the policy to be cancelled  although it is not clear which company was 
meant to receive the letter. However, Mrs S has no proof of postage and St Andrews 
Insurance said it did not receive the letter. So I dont think there is enough evidence here 
for me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman