DRN-1862371
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr B was involved in an accident whilst driving his car. He made a claim 
on his Admiral motor insurance policy and Admiral decided his car was beyond economical 
repair. So it kept Mr Bs car and offered him £3,910 to settle his claim. 
Mr B complained to Admiral that this wasnt enough to buy a similar car. But Admiral didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said £3,910 was the market value it got from Glasss, a recognised 
motor valuation guide, and that this was the highest of three valuations it had obtained.
Mr B remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. He said a fair valuation 
for his car was more like £5,600 and provided adverts for similar cars to support this.
After looking into things, our investigator said the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy 
entitled Admiral to pay him market value. She said shed checked four motor-trade guides 
and the average retail value was £3,724.50. She acknowledged the adverts Mr B had 
provided but thought Admiral dealt with his claim in line with the policy terms and fairly 
valued his car by paying him the highest value rather than an average.
Mr B disagreed. He was concerned Admiral might have used a trade value rather than a 
retail value. He said hed seen media articles suggesting the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) said insurers must pay enough for a replacement car, that sale prices now reached 
the advertised price, and that prices differ from area to area. He said his car had a desirable 
paint finish. And that if hed known Admiral wouldnt pay him enough to buy a similar car, 
hed have kept and repaired his damaged car since this would have been cheaper. But 
Admiral didnt give him the option.
As Mr B disagreed, his complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B hoped for, but 
Ill explain my reasons. 
Ive considered what the policy says it will pay if Mr Bs car is damaged in an accident. It 
says: 
2. What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the settlement, 
or ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts replaced were already 
worn or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that has been removed from your car
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or items
claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved to a place of
storage as soon as possible.
So the policy says it will pay Mr B market value, and defines that as The cost of replacing 
your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market 
prices at the time of the loss.
To support his complaint, Mr B has provided adverts for cars similar to his. But cars may 
often be sold for less than advertised. So instead, our services approach is to use the 
valuations given in the motor trade guides. These are based on nationwide research of likely 
selling prices, and theyre widely recognised by insurers and the motor trade.
Admiral used three of the guides to value Mr Bs car. I myself have checked three guides, 
two of which are the same ones used by Admiral. And I can see that Admiral offered Mr B 
the highest of the values given by those guides - £3,910  and that this was a retail valuation 
and not the lower trade valuation. Mr B says his car had a desirable paint finish, but the 
guides suggest that doesnt change the valuation. Therefore, Im satisfied Admiral has acted 
fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Mr B suggests Admiral hasnt followed ABI guidance. Mr B hasnt clarified which ABI 
guidance hes referring to but, in any case, Admiral used motor-trade guides to value his car. 
The guides use advertised prices, amongst other things, to work out likely selling prices and 
they are based on nationwide research. So I dont think Admiral has acted inconsistently with 
what Mr B has suggested regarding ABI guidance.
Mr B also says hed have kept and repaired his damaged car if hed known Admiral wouldnt 
have paid him enough to buy a similar car, but it didnt give him the option to do this. Ive not 
seen that Mr B has complained to Admiral about this particular issue, so I wont address it in 
this decision. Mr B would need to first raise this complaint with Admiral, and if he wasnt 
satisfied with its response, he could then refer his complaint to our service.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman