DRN-3457847
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) ignored his request not to receive telephone 
calls following a payment problem and also complains about that payment problem.
What happened
Mr L says he tried to make an online payment in March 2021 which could not be completed 
due to a BoS system problem. He says BoS tried calling him which he has asked it not to do 
and as result his telephone became blocked due to a limited memory capacity. Mr L says he 
didnt receive BoSs letter following his complaint and also complains about a card retention 
issue. He would like appropriate compensation for what took place which he says should be 
in excess of £150 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
BoS says it wrote to Mr L in April 2021 and has apologised for the system issue as well as 
for calling him. It has paid £35 compensation.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought BoS had paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. The investigator explained that we couldnt look into complaints 
about other matters not investigated by BoS and that we could not comment on a banks 
processes. The investigator thought BoS had accepted making a mistake.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and questions why the account card retention complaint cant 
be looked at and says the compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and I dont require it to increase that award. I appreciate Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision and, having read is detailed letters to us, appreciate how 
strongly he feels about what has taken place. I make clear to Mr L, as I have previously 
done, that this decision is about what took place in March 2021 and the events that followed. 
Mr L will need to make a complaint to BoS about the card retention issue.
There is no real dispute here that BoS systems problems resulted in the payment problems 
Mr L experienced when he attempted a transaction. And that it then attempted to call Mr L 
which was not his preferred communication method. I have no doubt Mr L was caused 
frustration by what took place and was caused inconvenience in having to make the 
payment by alternative methods. I also accept that Mr L didnt receive BoSs response to his 
complaint in April 2021 which resulted in further inconvenience, but I cant fairly hold BoS 
responsible for that as its not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
The only real issue for me to consider is the compensation level. Im satisfied that BoS has 
fairly apologised for what took place and I hope that its records will now clearly have 
recorded Mr Ls communication preference. I dont think Mr L suffered any real financial loss 
as a result of what took place and can see he was able to make the payment. I dont think 
the impact of the mistake was significant enough to justify the compensation amount Mr L 
would like.
Overall, Im satisfied that BoS has dealt fairly with this complaint by apologising and by 
paying a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I accept Mr L may remain disappointed 
by my decision, but this brings an end what we can do in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman