DRN-4506305
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt protected her from losing money to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mrs K has explained that in November 2022 she made two 
payments from her Lloyds account for what she thought was a legitimate investment. Mrs K 
made the payments from her Lloyds account first to her MoonPay account, before moving 
them on from there to the scammers. The payments totalled £1,000.
Mrs K subsequently realised shed been scammed and got in touch with Lloyds. Ultimately, 
Lloyds didnt reimburse Mrs Ks lost funds, and Mrs K referred her complaint about Lloyds to 
us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Ks complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Let me say, first of all, I have no doubt Mrs K has been the victim of a scam here. She has  
my sympathy. Ultimately, however, Mrs K has suffered her loss because she was scammed 
by fraudsters, and this doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from Lloyds. It would only 
be fair for me to tell Lloyds to reimburse Mrs K her loss (or part of it) if I thought Lloyds 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments (or part of them) in the first place, or 
Lloyds unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after the payments had been made; and 
if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Prevention
Im satisfied Mrs K authorised the relevant payments. Lloyds would generally be expected to 
process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs K is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That said, as 
a matter of good industry practice Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made 
by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and 
check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. 
In this case, Lloyds didnt pause either of Mrs Ks payments and speak with her before they 
were executed. So, Ive considered whether I think Lloyds reasonably ought to have done 
so. However, the payments were for £150 and £850, separated by around six days. Theyre 
just not of the level where I could reasonably say in this case that Lloyds fraud systems 
should have been triggered and it ought not to have processed the payments without doing 
more than it did. I take on board the payments were to a crypto exchange, but not all 
payments made for cryptocurrency are made as a result of a scam. So this doesnt change 
my mind. The payments just werent unusual enough here to say Lloyds should have done 
more. What this means is that Im satisfied Lloyds didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payments being made. So I cant hold Lloyds responsible for Mrs Ks loss for this 
reason.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything 
further until it was aware Mrs K had been scammed. Then, because these were debit card 
payments, the only potential avenue for recovery of the payments would have been through 
the chargeback scheme. However, Mrs K made these payments to MoonPay (and not 
directly to the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would 
be MoonPay (and not the scammers). But MoonPay provided Mrs K with the crypto she paid 
for. The subsequent transfer of the funds onto the scammers from MoonPay would not give 
rise to a valid chargeback claim through Lloyds. So, I dont think these payments were 
recoverable through Lloyds once they had been made.
I realise this means Mrs K is out of pocket, and Im sorry shes lost money. However, Im 
satisfied for the reasons Ive explained that I cant fairly nor reasonably tell Lloyds to 
reimburse her in circumstances where I dont think it reasonably ought to have prevented the 
payments or been able to recover them.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman