DRN-2818949
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he was incorrectly advised by Origen Financial Services Limited 
in November 2012 that he wouldnt be affected by the Lifetime Allowance (LTA). In 
particular, Mr P has said that he should have been informed that a combination of the 
pension benefits he crystallised in 2012 and those he would crystallise in 2018 would mean 
that hed exceed the LTA of £1.5m.
Mr P has further complained that he wasnt warned that the LTA could reduce in the future 
or that he could apply for future protections.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 30 March 2021, in which I said I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. A copy of that decision is set out below, beginning with 
the background to the case:
Mr P was referred to Origen by his existing financial adviser in November 2012 in order to 
provide advice on annuity options. In a telephone call, it was established that Mr P had 
pension benefits with fund values amounting to approximately £1.13m. They comprised of 
two personal pension policies (PPPs), with fund values of £664,806 and £159,117, and a 
retirement annuity contract (RAC) with a transfer value of £307,815.
In a follow up recommendation report, Origen said that, on the basis of the known fund 
values, it was unlikely that the LTA would affect Mr P.
Origen recommended that Mr P annuitize the benefits he held in his PPPs, but it 
identified that Mr P had guaranteed income benefits in the RAC, which would increase if 
he deferred taking them until he was 70  Mr P was 64 at the time.
Mr P confirmed that he wouldnt be making further contributions to his pension policies, and 
therefore it wasnt thought that the fund value in his RAC would increase significantly.
When Mr P reached age 70 in 2018 and took his benefits from the RAC, the product provider 
assessed the benefits as being worth over £730,000. As the pension benefits hed already 
crystallised represented a benefit of over £827,000, Mr P significantly exceeded the LTA 
then in place of £1.03m. He retrospectively applied for Fixed Protection 2016, which gave 
him an LTA of £1.25m, but the overall value of his pension benefits still exceeded this. As 
such, the RAC provider applied the relevant tax to the excess over the LTA, which reduced 
Mr Ps pension benefits.
Mr P complained to Origen on the above detailed basis in December 2018. It didnt 
uphold his complaint, however, saying that it provided advice on the basis of the 
information about Mr Ps fund values at the time. It said the information it had provided to 
Mr P was correct at the time of the advice, and that it couldnt have predicted that the LTA 
would reduce to £1.03m in six years time. It further said that it didnt consider that the 
manner in which the RAC product provider had calculated the pension benefit for that 
policy  on a defined benefit basis - was standard practice.
However, following further correspondence, Origen wrote to Mr P again saying that it was 
upholding his complaint on the basis that it had misinformed him as to how the value of 
his RAC would be calculated for LTA purposes.
It said that, due to that error, it had considered whether Mr P had been financially 
disadvantaged. However, according to the calculation that it undertook, it had 
determined that Mr P had suffered no financial loss.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr P referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
He noted that Origen had conceded that it had given Mr P incorrect information, 
and that, although it said it restricted its recommendation to annuities advice, this 
needed to be correct.
Although Mr P had his own IFA, the investigator thought that if that IFA had been 
able to make recommendations about his pensions, he would have done so. But 
hed referred Mr P to Origen for that purpose.
Had Origen contacted the RAC provider, it would have established the cost 
required to pay the guaranteed benefits  which would have differed from the 
quoted transfer value. And it would then have been able to inform Mr P how 
taking the benefits in 2012 compared to taking them in 2018  and how this 
would have affected his LTA.
He accepted that Origen wouldnt have known that the LTA would reduce in 
the future, but he thought it should have been aware that Mr P was above the 
LTA in place in 2012.
Mr P was unaware that, by deferring taking the benefits from his RAC, he 
would exceed the LTA.
The investigator concluded that, had Mr P known the true position, he would have 
established Fixed Protection in 2014 to mitigate his situation. As such, he recommended 
that Origen pay redress to Mr P on the basis that he would have paid less tax with that 
protection in place. He also thought that Origen should also pay Mr P an additional £750 for 
failing to manage his expectations in relation to his pension benefits.
Origen disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
It reiterated that Mr P was only referred to it for annuity research to be 
undertaken. Mr P didnt provide all of his financial details, and so it was only 
possible to provide advice within that narrow remit.
There was no reason for it to contact the RAC provider as it was the standard 
understanding that the fund value should be used when valuing a RAC for LTA 
purposes. It couldnt have informed Mr P of the differences in him taking his 
benefits in 2012 and 2018, as it couldnt have known what the LTA would be in 
2018. Also, neither Origen nor Mr P would have been aware of Fixed 
Protection 2014, which wasnt introduced until December 2012.Mr P had his own financial adviser who was capable of conducting regular reviews 
and so could have kept abreast of the LTA situation. Origen had no contact with 
Mr P after the one piece of advice in 2012 and so couldnt have informed him of 
changes in the LTA or the introduction of Fixed Protection 2014.
It made a recommendation based upon what was known at the time, and 
upon information which it was entitled to believe was correct unless it had 
reason to suspect otherwise.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The service provided, and the information relied upon, by Origen
Origen has sought to clarify the definition of the service provided to Mr P, saying that its 
remit was specifically to identify an appropriate strategy for Mr P to access his annuities, 
rather than looking at his pension options more generally. Its also referred to 
information which was provided by Mr P, rather than which it had produced itself.
But whilst I might accept this as being the case, I dont think either of these points really 
has much of an impact on my consideration of the issues here. If Origen was tasked with 
only looking at the best way of Mr P taking annuities from his pension policies, and the 
information had been supplied by Mr P, it nevertheless had a duty to provide suitable 
advice and correct information on the basis of the detail in its possession.
And Origen clearly took into account the nature of the policies held by Mr P, in addition to a 
consideration of how their value might impact on his LTA. In relation to the former, Origen 
was aware that Mr Ps RAC had guaranteed benefits, the value of which would be so 
beneficial at age 70 that it recommended deferring taking these until hed reached that age. 
And with regard to the LTA, Origen calculated the value of Mr Ps pension benefits by 
adding together the fund values of his policies, and then informed Mr P that he shouldnt be 
concerned about breaching the £1.5m LTA in place at the time.
Im satisfied, therefore, that in providing advice, Origen was taking into account Mr Ps 
overall pension benefits and making an assessment as to whether there were LTA 
implications for him. And Im further satisfied that Mr P was entitled to rely on the 
information and advice it then provided.
Origens interpretation of the information
In its revised response to Mr Ps complaint on 27 December 2018, Origen said the following:
After further consideration of (Mr Ps) complaint, we have concluded that the wording in the 
Advice and Recommendation Report was incorrect in respect of the Lifetime allowance. As 
previously stated, this was due to the fact Legal & General consider your Retirement Annuity 
Contract to be a Defined Benefit pension and have calculated it on this basis. Although we
do not believe this is the standard stance, this was not picked up by the consultant at 
the time the recommendation was made and this is the reason for upholding your 
complaint.I agree that the information it provided was incorrect. I dont think I need to explore the 
non-standard comment about the treatment by the RAC provider of what were clearly 
guaranteed benefits in its LTA calculation. Origen has accepted that its interpretation  and 
use of just the fund value rather than a multiple of twenty times the available pension - 
amounted to misinformation.
It therefore undertook a calculation to determine whether Mr P had suffered a financial 
loss, albeit on the basis that Mr P had applied for Fixed Protection 2016, which provided 
an LTA of £1.25m.
What should have happened?
Origen was aware that the LTA had reduced from £1.8m to £1.5m in 2012. And so it was 
of course possible that this might reduce further. In fact, just one week after the 
recommendation report was issued, the government announced in its Autumn Statement 
that the LTA would reduce from £1.5m to £1.25m in 2014.
But this is in any case of reduced importance, for the following reason. My view is that, if it 
had properly identified that Mr Ps RAC benefits should be treated as defined benefits, 
Origen should have multiplied the guaranteed pension income which Mr P could expect at 
age 70 by twenty. And then it would have been apparent that Mr Ps overall pension value 
for LTA purposes was already projected to be in excess of the £1.5m already in place at 
age 70. It didnt need to know what the LTA would be in 2018. Rather, even on an 
assumption that it might remain the same, it would have been apparent that Mr P would 
breach this if he deferred taking his RAC benefits until age 70.
It would then have become clear from this information alone that it was imperative that Mr 
P mitigate his potential exposure to the known LTA at the time  even on the assumption 
that this would remain the same. Mr P could have done two things, as follows.
As Origen has pointed out, the opportunity for Fixed Protection 2012 had already 
expired. And it couldnt be known what the LTA would be in the future.
So on the basis of the known LTA at the time, and the certainty that he would breach this at 
age 70 if he deferred taking his RAC benefits until then, Mr P would have been ill advised to 
do so. But Mr Ps exposure to the LTA was, on the basis of the income which the RAC 
would produce at that point, in the region of £1.3m. And so he had some headroom  
perhaps a year or two - in which to defer taking the RAC income until it became likely that 
he would breach the known £1.5m LTA.
Had Origen properly made him aware of the issues relating to his proximity to the LTA, and 
to be aware of any future reductions which might impact on his current planning, it would 
then have become apparent to Mr P after December 2012 that the LTA would be reducing 
to £1.25m in 2014, but that he could retain the £1.5 allowance by invoking Fixed Protection 
2014.
And by doing this, Mr P would still have been able to begin taking his income from the age 
which Origen would have calculated was suitable to maintain the value of his overall 
benefits below the LTA of £1.5m. I note that Origen was, in 2012, able to predict the annual 
pension available from the RAC to age 70, and so would also have been able to do so at 
every age up to that point.
And so, had Origen informed Mr P that his likely overall pension benefits would exceed£1.5m at age 70, I think that Mr P would have accessed his guaranteed pension 
benefits sooner. If hed taken the RAC income earlier, he would also have had the 
benefit of receiving the guaranteed income for longer.
Summary
In essence, Origen could have identified the age at which Mr P would be able to optimise 
the withdrawal of his guaranteed benefits and avoid paying a tax charge for exceeding the 
LTA. The future availability of Fixed Protection 2014 had been confirmed, Origen says, by 
December 2012.
If hed been properly informed, Mr P would have been aware that he didnt need to begin 
accessing his guaranteed RAC benefits immediately in November 2012 to avoid the LTA 
tax charge. Its likely that he could have capitalised on the increases in the RAC 
guaranteed income for a year or two more without his overall exposure exceeding the LTA.
And so by that time, and in fact even earlier  by December 2012 - Mr P would have known 
that he could protect his LTA at £1.5m in 2014 if he hadnt by that point already begun 
taking his RAC benefits.
Putting things right
As set out above, had Mr P been fully informed of his exposure to the LTA, I think he would 
have taken the guaranteed benefits from the RAC earlier to avoid exceeding the £1.5m 
limit, and, if necessary, invoked Fixed Protection 2014.
Origen Financial Services Limited should therefore determine at which age Mr P would 
have been best advised to begin taking his RAC benefits, on the basis that his overall 
pension benefits, including the income produced by the RAC, would be lower than the LTA 
which was known in 2012 of £1.5m.
It should then compare the income which Mr P has received from his RAC with the 
income he would have received, had he taken it at the earlier point.
If Mr P would have received more income in the past, he has suffered a past loss  and 
interest at 8% simple pa should be added to the difference in each higher payment that 
he would have received, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
If the income which Mr P will actually receive in the future is lower than that which he 
would have received from taking the RAC benefits at the earlier point, Origen Financial 
Services Limited should either establish an annuity on the same terms on Mr Ps behalf 
for the difference, or pay to him the capitalised value of buying that additional annuity 
income.
If the future income would be lower, then the capitalised value of the difference between 
that and the higher annuity Mr P is in fact receiving may be deducted from any loss 
established for the past income.
If Mr P would also have obtained higher tax free cash by taking the RAC benefits earlier, 
then the difference should be paid to him, with interest at 8% simple pa on the difference 
from the date the tax free cash was paid to the date of settlement. However, if the tax 
free cash would have been lower, any difference may be deducted from any income 
losses identified above.I think Mr P will have been caused a significant amount of distress by learning that the 
amount of income he was expecting at age 70 was then substantially reduced due to the 
tax imposed on his pension benefits. As such, I think the investigators suggestion of a 
further payment of £750 is probably warranted in this case.
In response, Origen said the following in summary:
It didnt agree with a principle where a client and an adviser, who was providing 
ongoing advice to that client, would be exempt from responsibility for being aware of 
updates and changes in tax.
My provisional decision would penalize Origen for the ongoing failure or omission in 
the service provided by the successor advisory firm. 
Origen received no fee for providing advice in relation to the RAC and it wasnt 
engaged to provide advice on it. Its remit was recommend an annuity for the PPPs.
The proposed method of calculating redress offered Mr P the benefit of hindsight, as 
there was no way of knowing that he would have acted at the opportune moment.
However, Origen said that it would be undertaking the calculations and that these would be 
forwarded once completed.
Mr P welcomed the outcome, but expressed concern that some aspects of the case hadnt 
been considered, as follows:
The security provided by the Origen report in 2012 that hed receive an income of 
over £36,000 from the RAC allowed him to invest in a high risk start up business and 
make other investment decisions and gifts.
When Mr P realised the tax implications for breaching the LTA, he sought advice 
from Pension Wise and his accountant, who then referred this to a specialist adviser 
with expertise in this area. This advice was essential in the prolonged negotiations 
with Origen. As this was required purely as a result of Origens error, the cost of this 
should be met in full by Origen.
Mr P said that hed spent between 400 and 450 hours dealing with Origen and 
engaging with other partiers to resolve the matter. This was time which, due to his 
and his wifes age and health, could not be recovered. As a result of the reduced 
income, Mr P had been unable to retire to part time hours as planned and had been 
forced to continue working full time to maintain their lifestyle and provide for future 
retirement. This should be compensated.
The matter had caused a great deal of stress and had disrupted his and his wifes 
lives after a carefully planned future. The payment of £750 didnt reflect this.
The lump sum payment of £185,000 into the RAC hadnt been taken into account. 
This was referred to in the 2012 report, and if it hadnt been invested in the RAC this 
would have been a major factor in reducing the LTA breach and could have been 
invested in another tax efficient investment. Even with tax at 40%, he would still have 
been better off.
Mr P expressed concern that the redress calculation, including interest costs, would 
be calculated by Origen  his faith in its ability to do this had been undermined in his 
recent dealings with it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to alter my overall view on this matter, but Ill address the 
points raised by the parties in turn. 
To firstly address the comments made by Origen, I acknowledge the point about the ongoing 
responsibility of a subsequent adviser, but in this case Origen had reviewed Mr Ps pension 
funds and had clearly set out the position in terms of Mr Ps likelihood (or later lack thereof) 
of breaching the LTA. It would of course have been possible for another adviser to re-check 
the basis of its position on this, but having engaged the services of Origen to produce the 
required report, I dont think this would necessarily be expected of another adviser. As with 
Mr P, I think they would be entitled to rely on the information provided by Origen.
And although I also note the comment relating to the lack of fee for advising on the RAC 
policy, Origen did nevertheless provide a report which factored in the effect of the RAC, and 
which has resulted in the situation in which Mr P then found himself.
As to the point relating to Mr P being afforded the benefit of hindsight, Im afraid I disagree 
here. Had a clear strategy been put in place to take the benefits from the RAC at an 
appropriate time over the subsequent few years, with Mr P being aware of the 
consequences of not implementing it when required, I think its more likely than not that he 
would have done so. And if he hadnt, then I think its unlikely that any complaint about the 
consequences would have succeeded. 
To address Mr Ps further points, I do accept that when Mr P learned of the tax implications 
of breaching the LTA, this would have been a very troubling and upsetting time. 
Mr P has said that he committed to investment in a small business and other gifts on the 
basis of the known future income. I accept that Mr P may have acted differently if hed been 
aware that the RAC income would have needed to be taken earlier than age 70. But the 
advantage of taking the income earlier would of course have been that hed receive it for 
longer. And so any reduction in the starting income may have been offset by the longer 
period in payment.
Its impossible for me to know whether Mr P would in fact have acted differently. I think if a 
tax charge for breaching the LTA was predicted, he may well have done so. But if the RAC 
income had just been reformatted through accessing it earlier (which is the position in which 
the proposed redress calculation will place him), I think thats probably less likely. On 
balance, therefore, as the redress is designed to place Mr P in the position he should have 
been in had the error not been made, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to factor in 
potential alternative decision making on the basis of taking the RAC benefits earlier. 
The same principle applies to Mr Ps point that hes needed to reformat his working life. The 
aim of the redress is to put him in the position he should have been, but for Origens 
mistake. Mr P could never have accessed the full RAC pension of around £36,000 at age 70 
without facing a tax charge for the associated LTA breach. Mr P would have needed to take 
benefits earlier to avoid the tax charge - but as Ive commented on above, for longer. And so 
any lifestyle amendments which Mr P needs to keep in place once the redress calculation is 
undertaken and any settlement has been made would in all likelihood always have needed 
to be implemented.
Mr P has also said that, if hed known about the prospective tax charge, he wouldnt have invested an additional £185,000 into the RAC. Hes said that he would have invested it in an 
alternative tax efficient way. But the redress proposal takes into account the additional 
contribution, and is designed to produce a position where this wont have been affected by 
the LTA  breach. Therefore, Mr P will be in a position whereby the additional contribution will 
have benefitted from tax relief, tax efficient growth within the pension wrapper, and the 
guaranteed annuity rate  but with no adverse impact from an LTA breach.
Mr P has further said that Pension Wise informed him that he should refer the matter to a 
specialist to assist with the prolonged negotiations with Origen. But Mr P knew from an early 
stage in proceedings that he could refer the matter to this service, which is free to use and 
designed to establish whether a financial business such as Origen is at fault, and if so, what 
needs to be done to put matters right.
And so, whilst I dont doubt that Mr P thought it was the right thing to do to engage the 
services of a third party specialist, this was his decision to make rather than simply referring 
it to this service. Mr P had already begun taking benefits from the RAC, hence the tax 
charge  and so no reformatting of his pension provision was required. As such, I dont think 
that Origen should need to pay for the specialist services invoked by Mr P in resolving his 
complaint.
According to Mr P, hes also spent many hundreds of hours on this matter. I dont doubt that 
hes committed much time to resolving the issue, and I agree that this has been during a 
time when he and his wife should be enjoying life. But we do expect that consumers will 
need to spend some time dealing with a complaint, and then in referring a complaint to this 
service. And once that has happened, our hope  and indeed the purpose of our service - is 
that consumers are able to relieve themselves of the responsibility for putting matters right, 
effectively then leaving that to us. 
I appreciate that this complaint has taken longer than wed like to resolve, for which I 
apologise to both parties, but Im nevertheless confident that weve reached the right 
outcome and that Mr P will now be placed, as closely as possible, in the position he would 
now be in but for the business mistake.
Taking everything into account and the types of award we might make in similar 
circumstances, I remain of the view that the sum of £750 is an appropriate sum to 
compensate Mr P for the inconvenience in needing to address this matter and the additional 
stress caused.
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional decision, had Mr P been fully informed of his exposure to the 
LTA, I think he would have taken the guaranteed benefits from the RAC earlier to avoid 
exceeding the £1.5m limit, and, if necessary, invoked Fixed Protection 2014.
Origen Financial Services Limited should therefore determine at which age Mr P would 
have been best advised to begin taking his RAC benefits, on the basis that his overall 
pension benefits, including the income produced by the RAC, would be lower than the LTA 
which was known in 2012 of £1.5m.
It should then compare the net income which Mr P has received from his RAC with the net 
income he would have received, had he taken it at the earlier point.
If Mr P would have received more income in the past, he has suffered a past loss  and 
interest at 8% simple pa should be added to the difference in each higher payment that he 
would have received, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.If the net income which Mr P will actually receive in the future is lower than that which he 
would have received from taking the RAC benefits at the earlier point, Origen Financial 
Services Limited should either establish an annuity on the same terms on Mr Ps behalf for 
the difference, or pay to him the capitalised value of buying that additional annuity income.
If the future net income would be lower, then the capitalised value of the difference 
between that and the higher annuity Mr P is in fact receiving may be deducted from any 
loss established for the past income.
If Mr P would also have obtained higher tax free cash by taking the RAC benefits earlier, 
then the difference should be paid to him, with interest at 8% simple pa on the difference 
from the date the tax free cash was paid to the date of settlement. However, if the tax free 
cash would have been lower, any difference may be deducted from any income losses
identified above.
I acknowledge Mr Ps concern that Origen will be undertaking the redress calculation, but I 
have no reason to doubt that it will do so according to the direction set out above. It will, 
however, need to explain the result in a clear and understandable fashion, and should 
provide Mr P with a copy of the calculation for his reference.
For the reasons set out above, Origen Financial Services Limited should also pay Mr P a 
further £750.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Origen Financial Services Limited 
to make payment to Mr P as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman