DRN-2478915
Complaint
Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Miss M bought the policy in 2003 several months after she took out a credit card. It was 
taken out during a telephone conversation with an advisor.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
Miss M says she was keen to have use of the credit card and has said she was told during 
the phone conversation with Barclays that she would need to have PPI to activate the credit 
card. 
In order to apply PPI to Miss Ms account, Barclays had to make it clear to Miss M that the 
policy was optional, and it had to gain her consent. Barclays doesnt know whether it called 
Miss M or she called them. But it has referred us to copies of the sales scripts it says it was 
using for both inbound and outbound phone calls to sell PPI to customers. Looking at these, 
I think they made it clear PPI was optional and that the customer didnt have to take it out. 
There is little other information available from when the policy was sold, which isnt 
surprising given the policy was taken out over 17 years ago.  Because of this, I have to base 
my findings on what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. In order to 
uphold the complaint, I would need to see persuasive evidence to show that Barclays didnt 
give Miss M a choice when it came to the PPI. Ive thought carefully about what Miss M has 
said. But, I havent seen anything to make me think, that it is more likely than not, the advisor 
wouldnt have followed their script when they sold the PPI to Miss M. Taking all of this into 
consideration, I cant assume that something went wrong, when theres no persuasive 
evidence to suggest that something did. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint on this 
basis. 
Due to the limited information available, Barclays has assumed it recommended the PPI to 
Miss M. This means Barclays had to check the policy was right for her and based on what 
Ive seen of Miss M circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for her. She was 
eligible for cover and I cant see that she would have been affected by any of the things the 
policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Miss M says she would have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she didnt have 
any savings or other means she could have used to cover her credit card repayments if she 
ever fell on hard times. 
Having thought about what Miss M has told us about sick pay, I dont think this means 
Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her. I say this because, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to the sick pay she would have received from her employer and also 
would have paid a benefit if she became unemployed. So, I think the PPI would have been 
useful to Miss M if she ever became too unwell to work or lost her job. It also looks like it was 
affordable. It follows that dont think Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to her. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
her buying it. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M. But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss M 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman