The complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Prudential, (UKI) incorrectly told her 
that the vouchers she was given in 2000 didnt have an expiry date.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mrs M made a theft claim on her UKI home insurance policy in 2000. To settle the claim, she 
was given paper vouchers. Mrs M asked UKI to confirm that the vouchers didnt have an 
expiry date. In writing, it confirmed the vouchers do not have any time limit for use attached 
to them. The letter went on to say I have confirmed this with the [ head office of the voucher 
issuer].
UKI says that, around May 2019, Mrs M tried to use the unspent part of the paper vouchers 
she had left from her claim in 2000, worth £400, but there were problems using them. She 
contacted UKI who offered to give her replacement vouchers. But they explained that, since 
the claim in 2000, electronic vouchers (e-vouchers) had replaced paper vouchers and the e-
vouchers would have a 12-month expiry period on them. Mrs M wasnt happy with this, so 
she complained to UKI.
UKI explained that it can only issue e-vouchers, which all have a 12-month expiry date, to 
replace the paper voucher. This is due to the passage of time, the age of the claim and 
technological advances. Also, due to the time thats passed, theres limited information about 
the claim itself. Even so, it apologised for what has happened and the upset caused. It also 
offered £50 to Mrs M by way of an apology for now having to spend the voucher in the next 
12 months. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to our service. To put 
matters right, she wants UKI to replace her remaining paper voucher for £400 with ones that 
dont have an expiry date or to offer her the cash equivalent. Mrs M has explained that the 
jewellery which was stolen in 2000 cant be replaced quickly due to the sentimental value of 
it, and points out that it has already taken her from 2000 to spend some of the vouchers. She 
feels as though shes being forced to buy something which she does not want or need within 
the next 12 months so as not to lose out on the £400. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter but he didnt uphold Mrs M's complaint. He 
felt that, whilst advice had been given regarding the expiry date back in 2000, it was given 
with the best intention at the time even if the advice had later changed. Further, he explained 
he accepts that:
DRN-1387830due to the length of time since the claim, UKI wasnt offering a cash settlement as 
they no longer hold its own record of the original claim; UKI isnt able to amend the 
expiry date on e-vouchers; and
the replacement voucher would be valid for 12 months. And he thought this was a 
reasonable length of time to be able to find an item to find something she liked.
 
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She says she has her own records from 
the time which UKI could use. She also feels its unfair to expect that she should have been 
able to anticipate that after a few years the information she was given by UKI would turn out 
not to be the truth. Particularly when the investigator is saying that it isnt reasonable to 
expect UKI to anticipate that, owing to advances in the digital world, these vouchers would 
become obsolete. She feels that UKI, who misled her with a lie, should find a solution which 
is acceptable to her.
Our investigator and Mrs M communicated about this matter and the above points but, in 
summary, the investigator didnt think this changed his view. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. And I think he set out the position clearly about why he didnt feel UKI needed to do 
anything more to put things right. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. UKI has apologised for what happened and offered 
Mrs M compensation of £50 for the inconvenience of now being issued with an e-voucher, 
which expires after 12 months, to replace the paper voucher. The only issue I have to decide 
is whether the things it has done to put things right, including the amount of compensation 
its offered, is fair and reasonable.
At this point, I think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to 
compensate consumers, rather than punish organisations. We look at the impact any 
mistakes have had on the consumer concerned. I can see from what Mrs M has told us that 
she has found this to be very unfair. But I think UKI took this matter seriously and took steps 
to reduce the impact on Mrs M as soon as the situation was brought to its attention. It 
apologised to Mrs M, organised to replace the paper voucher with an e-voucher and offered 
to pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience this might cause. I believe this is a fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate what Mrs M has said about the time it took her to find something to spend the 
vouchers on  and I understand this was due to the sentimental value of the items stolen. But this doesnt mean I should fairly ask UKI to pay an increased amount of compensation 
as a result of this, require it to issue a voucher without an expiry date  something I accept it 
isnt able to do  or pay her cash in lieu of part of the settlement which was agreed in 2000, 
nearly 20 years ago. I say this particularly as Mrs M has already had nearly 20 years to 
spend the vouchers and has now been offered a further 12 months to do so. 
Mrs M feels strongly that UKI lied to her in 2000 and that, just a few years later, she 
shouldnt be expected to anticipate the situation shes now in. Just like our investigator 
doesnt expect UKI to have anticipated the introduction of an e-voucher with a 12 month 
expiry. However, having read the letter from 2000, I think it was a reasonable statement for 
UKI to make at the time, particularly having confirmed it had checked this with the voucher 
issuer beforehand. So I dont think its fair to say it was a lie or given with the intention of 
misleading Mrs M. I also think its reasonable for Mrs M to have understood that the 
statement was UKIs understanding of the position in 2000 and that matters can change over 
time, particularly over a period of time such as 20 years.
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact that Mrs M has mentioned that shes being forced to buy 
something which she does not want or need within the next 12 months. But I note that she 
has been offered a further year in addition to the time shes already had - just under 20 
years. Also, UKI says Mrs M could sell the e-voucher in return for cash and so this is 
something she might consider.
In summary, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint that UKI should do more than it has already 
offered to do to put things right. In the circumstances, Id recommend that Mrs M, within a 
reasonable time, sends her paper voucher to UKI as it has instructed her to so that it may 
replace this with an e-voucher. 
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against 
U K Insurance Limited. So it isnt required to do more than it has already offered to do to put 
things right in this matter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman