DRN-4282788
The complaint
Miss W was unhappy when she felt her claim for theft from her car was unfairly declined by 
AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
Miss W made a claim when a valuable ring was stolen from her car. AXA reviewed and 
validated the claim. AXA decided to decline the claim as it said there was no cover available 
under the policy for the circumstances that were presented by Miss W.
Miss W then contacted AXA and updated the details of her claim. As AXA were suspicious of 
the circumstances presented, it employed a specialist contractor to carry out a more detailed 
validation of the claim particulars.
The specialist contractor did a recorded video interview with Miss W where it posed several 
questions about the incident. The contractor also collected other information, including, 
Police reports / recorded calls, research on how a theft could be carried out on Miss Ws car 
without evidence of forced entry and recent claims history.
Based on its investigations and the report provided, AXA maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. It said the circumstances presented during the claim were inconsistent and it said 
Miss W hadnt provided enough care for her property.
Miss W said she thinks the decision was unfair  she didnt know how she could provide 
evidence her car was broken into.  Miss W would like her claim for the ring paid in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said she hadnt seen any 
evidence presented by Miss W that persuades her that the investigations and decision 
reached by AXA was unfair. She thought it has reasonably declined the claim in line with the 
policy conditions. Miss W disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the specific reason AXA gave for declining the claim. AXA issued a six-
page detailed explanation to Miss W of the investigations it had carried out and pointed out 
the issues it had with Miss Ws claim. It highlighted several discrepancies in Miss Ws 
testimony. However, the reasons it declined the claim were two-fold:
It presented evidence that the car was left unlocked, which it said it meant an 
exclusion to the policy would apply
It presented evidence that Miss W hadnt taken care of her property, which was a 
general condition of the policy.
I have checked the policy and valuables are covered by the policy, however, the policy 
states whats not covered too. It states, theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor 
vehicle unless the items are hidden from view in a boot or glove compartment, and all 
windows are closed and all doors, including the boot are locked.
The policy also sets out the importance of taking care of your property, which it explains as 
you and your family must take all reasonable precautions to avoid loss and take all 
reasonable steps to safeguard all the property insured.
The reasons AXA has set out for declining the claim are consistent with what is set out in the 
policy. So, I think if AXA has set our reasonable observations from its investigations that 
allow these clauses to apply, then Im likely to say it has been fair in declining the claim.
I have read AXAs reasoning in detail, and I find it persuasive. It has identified several areas 
in Miss Ws circumstances that are contentious. The investigation appears thorough, with 
evidence supporting its conclusions. Its been transparent with Miss W and shared the full 
detail of its investigations.
I appreciate Miss W has challenged these findings, but it doesnt change my view that 
significant inconsistencies remain in the circumstances that have been set out. These have 
been detailed by AXA. It has explained how Miss Ws car couldnt have been broken into 
remotely if Miss W had seen her car lock by the lights flashing. It has explained how Miss W 
was aware of the risk of leaving valuables in her car, and she had removed a valuable watch 
but chose to leave a valuable ring in her car. Its explained her version of events evolved into 
where the ring was hidden in the car.
Because AXA has provided such a thorough investigation, Im persuaded by what it has 
said. It outweighs anything that Miss W has presented. Therefore, I think AXA has been fair 
to apply the policy conditions it has to decline the claim. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint. I think AXA has been fair in declining the policy 
based upon the evidence it has shared.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman