DRN-2840724
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O are unhappy Unum Ltd hasnt paid out the full £50,000 benefit under their 
critical illness policy. 
What happened
In April 2017 Mrs O joined Mr Os group critical illness scheme through his employer. 
In March 2019 Mrs O had a private wellbeing check which showed a raised level of cancer 
antigen 125 (CA125).
On 1 April 2019 Mrs Os critical illness benefit level increased from £20,000 to £50,000. On 
the same day, Mrs O saw her GP. Following this appointment, she had further scans and 
tests in April 2019. In the same month Mrs O says she received an incidental diagnosis of 
breast cancer. Following a biopsy in May 2019, she sadly received a confirmation of this 
diagnosis. And in July 2019 she was told it had spread to her liver. 
In August 2019 Mr O submitted a claim to Unum. Unum reviewed the claim and decided to 
accept it but only pay £20,000. It said it couldnt pay the increased level of cover because 
the investigation into Mrs Os cancer diagnosis started within the two-month period before 
1 April 2019  the date her cover was increased. 
Mrs O and Mr O were unhappy with this decision, so they made a complaint. 
Unum reviewed the complaint but didnt change its decision. So, Mrs O and Mr O brought 
their complaint to this service. 
Mrs O and Mr O said it was only a routine check in March 2019 and the investigations and 
diagnosis didnt happen until after April 2019. So, the claim should be accepted for the full 
amount. They said Mr O had been a member of the employee scheme for many years, 
paying into it in good faith. They added that Unum has ambiguous clauses in order to limit 
any potential claim and they hadnt been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Unum had fairly relied 
on its pre-existing and related condition exclusion in the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs O and Mr O disagreed. They said they didnt know the raised CA125 would lead to a 
cancer diagnosis prior to 1 April 2019 and a routine annual health check shouldnt be 
considered an investigation. They said Mr O increased and selected the increase in critical 
illness benefit level before 1 April 2019. And the policy covers them for secondary cancer 
which the medical records show wasnt diagnosed until July 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I was sorry to read of Mrs Os cancer diagnosis and I realise this will be very 
disappointing for her and Mr O. Id like to assure them that I havent taken this decision 
lightly. 
Mrs O and Mr O have mentioned the policy not being fit for purpose and that theyre 
unhappy Unum continued taking an extra monthly premium for the rest of the financial year. 
As the investigator has explained, I cant consider that as part of this complaint. The 
complaint made to Unum was in relation to its decision to only pay £20,000 instead of the 
increased amount of £50,000. If Mrs O and Mr O are unhappy with how the policy was sold 
or being administered, they will need to speak to Mr Os employer. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
The exclusions Unum are relying on say;
The pre-existing and related conditions exclusions apply from:
- when the member joins the policy
- after a successful claim, and
- to all increases in benefit that are not related to an increase in salary.
And the pre-existing and related conditions exclusion says any medical investigations within 
two months before an increase in benefit which led to a later diagnosis of a critical illness 
wont be covered.
I dont believe its in dispute that when Mrs Os benefit level was increased on 1 April 2019 
she hadnt been diagnosed with cancer. So, I need to decide whether, on the evidence 
before me, Unum has acted reasonably in concluding that Mrs O had already started 
medical investigations two months before her benefit level was increased. And that this 
investigation led to her cancer diagnosis. 
Im satisfied the above terms are clear. Mrs O wasnt required to provide details of her 
medical history when she increased her benefit level. So, its understandable that Unum will 
include terms in the policy to consider claims for undiagnosed conditions that members of 
the scheme might already have (whether they are aware or not) when they increase their 
benefit levels. And this service doesnt consider these terms to be unreasonable in policies 
such as this. 
Mrs O attended her wellbeing check in March 2019 which was within two months of her 
benefit level increasing. After carefully reviewing the medical evidence, Im satisfied it was 
this wellbeing check that led to her visiting her GP in April 2019 and subsequently led to her 
cancer diagnosis. 
I note Mrs O and Mr O feel the wellbeing check shouldnt be considered a part of the 
investigation. However, Im satisfied it does. It was this wellbeing check that led Mrs O to 
make an appointment with her GP to review her increased levels of CA125. And because it 
wasnt possible to give Mrs O a clear answer and reason for her increased levels of CA125 
in March 2019, it was necessary for her to book an appointment with her GP to continue the 
investigation into the previous high reading she received. 
So, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Unum to apply the exclusion and only pay £20,000 
here.I note Mrs O and Mr O are unhappy that Unum has never sent them a copy of the terms and 
conditions. Unum has said it provides a copy of the policy documents to Mr Os employer to 
provide to him. I think it wouldve been helpful if Unum had provided a copy of the terms and 
conditions when the claim was made. But I dont think its unreasonable for Unum to provide 
the terms and conditions to Mr Os employer and expect them to be distributed by the 
employer. And not sending the terms and conditions to Mrs O and Mr O during the claims 
process doesnt mean the decision to pay £20,000 was wrong. 
So, Im not going to ask Unum to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman