DRN-3979457
The complaint
Miss L complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) decision to
decline her claim, its handling of the matter and failure to make reasonable adjustments for
her disability, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss L drove over a pothole in mid-July 2022. She says it was the front right-side tyre that hit
the pothole. And that this caused a fuel leak and resulted in a juddering sound when driving.
Miss L contacted Advantage to make a claim. She says she was asked to provide photos of
the damage, which she did, with difficulty due to issues with Advantages system. But she
says this couldnt demonstrate the juddering noise.
Advantage told Miss L that it didnt think the damage she reported had been caused by
driving over a pothole. It says it couldnt see any impact damage from the photos Miss L
provided, although there was evidence of a fuel leak. Advantage told her she would need to
get her vehicle inspected to show the damage was related to her claim.
Miss L didnt think this was fair. She told Advantage that it would be difficult for her to
arrange this given her health condition. She requested that it should take the car and inspect
it. It didnt agree to this. Miss L says she arranged for a breakdown service to look at her car.
She says it thought the damage was possibly pothole related. Miss L subsequently arranged
for the car to be taken to a local garage.
Miss L raised a complaint at the beginning of August 2022. She sent a video to Advantage to
support the damage having been caused by a pothole.
Advantage sent Miss L a final response to her complaint dated 9 August 2022. This
confirmed its decision not to accept her claim based on the evidence it had seen. It advised
her to have her vehicle inspected and that it would review this information.
Miss L referred her complaint to our service at the end of August 2022. Advantage sent her a
further complaint response dated 8 September. This acknowledged she wasnt happy but
told her that its response remained the same. And that it hadnt to date received an
inspection report to support Miss Ls claim. In its complaint response Advantage says to try
and assist Miss L it had instructed an independent engineer to inspect the damage.
However, Miss L had refused to allow this. Advantage concluded its response to say there is
no evidence to show Miss Ls car was damaged by an impact.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ls complaint in part. She didnt think Advantage behaved
unfairly when requesting an inspection to validate the damage. But she did think it couldve
arranged for an inspection sooner. She also says Advantages claim handler made some
mistakes including an incorrect date in correspondence regarding the inspection it had
arranged. Because of the distress Miss L felt, which was amplified by her health issues, our
investigator says Advantage should pay her £150 compensation.
Miss L didnt accept this outcome and neither did Advantage. As an agreement wasnt
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint in part. This isnt the response she
had hoped for and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I will explain why I think my decision is
fair.
I can see that the incident with the pothole occurred on 15 July 2022. The records show Miss
L contacted Advantage to make a claim on 19 July. Ive listened to the call recording when
this contact was made.
Miss L explains that she tried to call on the day of the incident but couldnt get through. Early
on in the call she explains that she has a disability. This means that stressful situations make
her unwell. Advantages agent acknowledges this and tells Miss L not to worry. I note at the
end of the call Miss L thanks the agent for her helpful manner throughout the call.
During the call Miss L describes hitting the pothole. She says she later returned to take a
photo of it. She says there wasnt an issue initially but having got back in her car it smelt of
fuel and was making a terrible noise. She explains that she didnt want to drive it because
of this. The agent says this could be classed as accident damage. She gave Miss L two
options to progress the claim. The first was for a salvage agent to collect the car and inspect
it to see what the damage is and if its repairable. The other option was for Miss L to take
some photos to show the damage that had occurred.
Miss L agreed to return to her car to take some photos and send them to Advantage for it to
review.
I note from Miss Ls later correspondence that she describes how this was difficult for her
because of her disability. Im sorry that she found this difficult, I can understand that this
must have been a distressing time for her.
From the call recording Miss L was given the option of having her car collected and
inspected by Advantages agent. Miss L chose to take photos of her car to demonstrate the
damage she was claiming for. Based on this evidence, I think Advantage behaved
reasonably by giving Miss L the option of having her car collected and inspected. It was Miss
Ls decision not to accept this offer.
Miss L describes difficulties when trying to send photos, and a video, using the method
Advantage had confirmed. However, this was subsequently resolved, and she manage to
send the photos to be assessed. From this information Advantages engineer thought there
was some evidence of a fuel leak  but he didnt think this damage was caused by the
incident or that it was impact related. Advantages records say it wouldnt look to incur costs
to investigate this further, given the decision its expert engineer had made from the evidence
available.
Ive looked at the photos Miss L sent to Advantage. I can see she placed a water bottle on its
side in the hole to demonstrate its depth. The pothole appears to be around the same depth
as the water bottle when laid on its side. I cant see obvious signs of impact damage on thephotos taken of Miss Ls car. However, there is a leak visible on the photos and in the video
she provided.
From the records I can see that on 20 July 2022 it was suggested that Miss L should provide
a report from a garage to show the damage was linked to the incident with the pothole. The
records show Miss L explained she would struggle to get the car to a garage herself. But did
say she would send in further images of the damage and a video to show the noise the car
was making.
An internal record dated 29 July 2022 refers to chasing the outstanding images. A few days
later a call was logged from Miss L requesting an update. The agent asks if she has
uploaded the images. The note indicates that the call became unproductive. Miss L asked to
speak to a manager, but the agents manager was on another call. At this point Miss L said
she would make a complaint and ended the call.
The records show that the claims team reviewed the images on 1 August 2022 and
concluded this didnt support damage resulting from driving over a pothole.
I can see Advantage provided a complaint response around a week later. This reconfirmed
its decision that the vehicle didnt show signs of an impact but was suffering from a fuel leak.
The response says Miss L should arrange an inspection and it will look to review any further
evidence.
Miss L emailed Advantage on 18 August 2022. She refers to a phone call with its agent and
says she has contacted her breakdown service provider. Miss L says her car was inspected
at the roadside and it was driven to listen to the noise it was making. She says the report
provided indicates the damage was possibly caused by hitting a pothole. In her emails Miss
L says her car is now with a mechanic and she is awaiting a further report.
The records show Advantage also sent an email on 18 August 2022 although later on in the
day. The date on the emailed letter is 9 August. This appears to have been written in error.
The email refers to an email from Miss L from 15 August and says Advantage agrees to
arrange and pay for an inspection of Miss Ls car. It says instructions were raised with the
engineer to carry out the inspection on 15 August.
I can see that Miss L raised concerns in an email dated 19 August 2022 - with the dates
referenced in Advantages email. Also, that the email appeared to contradict a previous
response it had sent. I can understand why this caused Miss L concern. It appears a mistake
was made with the date written on this email, which resulted in a confused message. More
care shouldve been taken by Advantages agent when communicating. But I cant see that
this was anything other than a genuine error on the part of the agent who wrote the email.
In her email Miss L confirms that she has already instructed a mechanic. In this and other
correspondence she says Advantage had tried to force her to do something she would
struggle to do, because of her disability. She refers to the Equalities Act 2010 and says
Advantage didnt make reasonable adjustments when requested.
Ive thought about Miss Ls comments and whether Advantage behaved reasonably in
asking her to provide a report from a garage in these circumstances.
The policy terms say:
You must co-operate fully and in a way so as not to compromise the resolution of your
claim. Examples may include providing information critical to the investigation and settlement
of the claim.Under the heading General Conditions the terms say:
Give your Insurer all the information and help they ask for including any documentary
evidence to back up your claim. All information you provide must be true and correct to the
best of your knowledge.
Also, under What isnt covered the terms say:
Wear and tear, deterioration, depreciation, or any loss or damage that happens gradually -
Failures, breakdowns or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer
equipment.
Advantages engineer didnt think there was evidence of impact damage to Miss Ls car,
based on the information she sent. I dont think this is an unreasonable view based on the
photos and videos provided. Advantages policy doesnt cover all scenarios. And its
reasonable to expect it to be able to validate a claim to ensure there is cover provided under
its policy terms before it agrees to pay for repairs.
Advantage says it followed its usual process when asking Miss L to obtain a report from a
garage. Its engineer didnt think the damage was covered by an insured cause. He felt this
was a mechanical failure. This is excluded by the policy terms. However, it did later agree to
arrange an inspection, at its own expense, to assist Miss L.
Ive thought about whether Miss L clearly identified herself as having a disability when she
called Advantage to make a claim. I think she did. Advantage offered to arrange an
inspection at this time, which I think was reasonable given Miss Ls health concerns and the
difficulties this caused her. I think it was reasonable for Advantage to offer an inspection,
without charge, when it did so in August 2022. This appears to have been in response to the
concerns Miss L raised. But I think this could reasonably have been agreed sooner at the
time Advantage first asked for a report to be provided. Especially as Miss L had made it
clear how this would be difficult for her to arrange.
Miss L describes how her health condition is impacted by stress. She says it was made
worse by Advantage not making a reasonable adjustment to assist in obtaining an inspection
report. Had Advantage offered to arrange an inspection earlier, this couldve lessened the
impact Miss L felt due to the time this matter was ongoing. From the records, Advantages
claims team reviewed the matter on 1 August 2022. It was only around two weeks later that
the independent inspector was instructed.
I can see Miss L didnt agree to Advantage arranging an inspection. In her emails she says
the business only wanted to do this in order to disprove her claim. She didnt think it was
doing this to help her in light of her disability. She also says this only happened after she
obtained a report from her breakdown service. Advantage reiterated its offer to arrange an
inspection of Miss Ls car. It confirmed it wouldnt change its decision without evidence that
showed the damage was due to an insured cause.
I note after Miss L referred her complaint to our service, she sent Advantage the repair
report from the garage she had appointed. Advantage told her this didnt alter its view. It
says it still required an independent inspection to validate the claim.
Miss L has since informed our investigator that she had arranged for the repairs to her car to
be carried out.
Our investigator explained that Advantages decision to decline the claim, having reviewedthe garage and breakdown reports, occurred after Miss L had referred her complaint to our
service. She says this means we cant consider this point here. We can only consider a
complaint once it has been raised with the business and its had the opportunity to provide a
final response. I cant see that this has happened here. If Miss L wants to pursue this point
she will need to do so in a separate complaint.
Miss L says Advantage has discriminated against her. Our investigator explained that its not
our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not. Thats a matter for the
Courts. However, I have considered the relevant law when deciding whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ls complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the impact the delayed offer of an inspection had on Miss L. I
dont think Advantage was unfair to require an inspection report, but it couldve provided
reasonable assistance to help Miss L. Its clear this is something it was able to arrange. It
offered to do so when the claim was first raised, and again in mid-August 2022. So, I think it
could reasonably have arranged for this to happen earlier in August given Miss Ls disability
and the difficulties shed face arranging an inspection herself.
Advantage relied on a policy exclusion that the damage was likely mechanical, and not down
to impact damage. I think it shouldve done more to demonstrate this by arranging an
inspection at an earlier stage.
Most people would likely be inconvenienced and caused some distress in these
circumstances. However, because of Miss Ls disability I think its fair to accept the impact
on her has been greater. She describes how both she and her daughter are disabled and
rely on the use of her car. She has lost weight and been unwell as a result of this claim,
which has also impacted negatively on her mental health. I think some of this impact
couldve been avoided had Advantage acted earlier to arrange an inspection after it declined
the claim. Because of this I think Advantage should pay Miss L £300 compensation.
Miss L says her car was vandalised whilst it was at the garage, she took it to. She also says
her carer was named on her insurance policy, but the car couldnt be driven. Because of this
she says she has had to get a different carer closer to where she lives and had to pay them
instead.
Im sorry Miss L has experienced these issues. But I dont think Advantage is responsible for
damage caused to her car whilst it was at her chosen garage. Similarly, it wasnt responsible
for the car becoming damaged, and it hasnt been shown that this is something covered by
her policy. So, I dont think Advantage is responsible for the additional cost and
inconvenience Miss L has mentioned here.
In summary I dont think Advantage behaved unfairly in declining to cover Miss Ls claim for
the reasons it gave. It reasonably required an inspection report to support the claim but
shouldve arranged an inspection itself at an earlier stage. Because of this it should pay Miss
L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Advantage should pay Miss L £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
Miss L responded at length. I will briefly summarise her comments before responding below.Miss L doesnt think I considered the Equalities Act 2010 when setting out my findings. She 
has provided excerpts from her phone calls with Advantage. She says this shows she was 
given the option of her car being collected and inspected, which the business later reneged 
upon. Miss L says she didnt realise she would have to climb onto the floor to take photos. 
And the option of an inspection wasnt re-offered after she had sent these images to 
Advantage.
Miss L says the noise began emanating from her car only after hitting the pothole. She says 
Advantage tried to coerce her out of making a claim and to pursue the local council for the 
cost of her repairs. 
Miss L says Advantage told her the car was a total loss. She says there was no damage 
before the incident with the pothole. And asks how the car became a total loss if not for the 
pothole. 
 
Miss L describes the distress she felt when dealing with Advantages agents over the phone. 
And that it failed to make reasonable adjustments when its engineers decided the damage 
wasnt claim related  leaving her to obtain a report from an independent engineer. 
Miss L says the complaint she made about the claim decision should be dealt with under this 
complaint reference. She says Advantage has acted unlawfully and denied her reasonable 
adjustments. She also says her garage thought the damage was located with the engine 
mounts. Miss L says this is a direct result of driving over the pothole. 
In her further submissions Miss L says she doesnt accept the incorrect date used by 
Advantages agent in an email was human error. She says the damage was caused by the 
pothole and Advantages view that it wasnt, is defamatory to her good standing. Miss L says 
£300 compensation isnt enough and she refers to putting Advantage on notice that she was 
seeking £20,000 in damages if it continued to violate her rights as a disabled person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to change the decision I set out previously. Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss L but I will explain why.
I can reassure Miss J that I did have regard to the Equalities Act 2010 when considering 
what a fair and reasonable decision should be with respect to her complaint. I acknowledge 
her view that my findings and the compensation I thought Advantage should pay her, is 
insufficient. But Im not persuaded by her further comments, that this warrants a change to 
the outcome I set out. 
The crux here, is that Miss J hasnt shown that an insured loss occurred. I think Advantage 
couldve offered and arranged for an inspection after its initial offer to do so was rejected by 
Miss J. But in these circumstances I still think £300 represents fair compensation for this 
shortfall. 
I dont think its the case that Advantage reneged on an agreement to provide an inspection 
at the outset. Its clear Miss L agreed to send photos of the damage for its engineers to 
consider. Advantage offered to collect the car and inspect it. But Miss L chose not to take 
this option. Based on the information Miss L sent to Advantage it didnt think driving over a pothole had 
caused damage to her car. Referring to the engineers comments, I dont think this was an 
unreasonable conclusion. The policy terms require Miss L to cooperate and provide 
evidence to back up her claim. I dont think Advantage behaved unreasonably when asking 
her to obtain a report from a garage if she thought the damage was still related to the 
pothole. I think its reasonable that it later agreed to arrange an inspection given the 
difficulties Miss L advised she was having. However, Advantages engineers were clear the 
damage wasnt the result of driving over a pothole and were likely due to mechanical 
failure/wear and tear.   
Im sorry Miss L found taking photos of the damage to her car difficult. However, the photos 
she was able to take were sufficient for Advantage to conclude there were no signs of impact 
damage. So, although I acknowledge her point about the lack of an inspection  Advantage 
was satisfied the damage claimed couldnt have been caused by Miss L driving over the 
pothole. It was Miss L that agreed to take photos to demonstrate the damage, as opposed to 
allowing Advantage to collect the car and inspect it. 
I acknowledge Miss Ls reference to Advantages agents telling her the car was a total loss. 
But I dont think this has a material impact here. The crux of the matter is that the car hasnt 
been shown to have suffered an insured loss. 
I havent seen evidence that persuades me the cause of the incorrectly dated letter was 
anything other than a genuine mistake on the part of the agent who wrote it. I dont think 
Advantages view of the damage is defamatory against Miss L. It must establish whether a 
claim can be validated based on the evidence available. It didnt think the damage couldve 
been caused in the way Miss L described. I accept Miss L thinks otherwise, but I dont think 
the evidence supports this or that shes shown Advantage behaved unreasonably when 
arriving at this conclusion.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think it was reasonable that Advantage later 
offered to arrange an inspection to help Miss J. This couldve happened earlier, but in the 
end Miss L did refuse to allow this to happen. I acknowledge her reasons for this. But without 
this it couldnt be shown that an insured loss had occurred. I also acknowledge Miss Ls view 
that her complaint about the claim decision should be considered here. But I dont agree for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. This is because this took place after she 
referred this complaint to our service - and is subject to a separate complaint the business 
hadnt yet responded to.   
In summary, although Im sorry for the distress Miss L felt as a result of the damage to her 
car, I think £300 compensation is fair to acknowledge the delay in an inspection being 
offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Miss L £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman