DRN-4406447
Complaint
Mrs T complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In March 2020, Moneybarn provided Mrs T with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,589.00. Mrs T didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 60-month conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the entire £6,589.00. The loan had interest, fees and 
total charges of £6,517.85 and the total amount to be repaid of £13,106.85 was due to be 
repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £222.15. 
Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Ts complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs T could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs T. During this assessment, Mrs T provided details of her monthly 
income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Mrs T which showed some 
previous difficulties with credit in the form of defaults that were over one year old and a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) that was taken out against her more than two years prior to 
the application. 
But when the amount Mrs T already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mrs Ts living 
expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mrs T says she was already struggling at 
the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mrs T and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, Moneybarn will have seen a number of defaults and the CCJ 
registered against Mrs T as a result of its credit search. And the monthly payments were 
taking up a reasonable proportion of Mrs Ts income. So Im satisfied that Moneybarn 
needed to take further steps to verify Mrs Ts actual living costs, rather than rely on average 
data, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Id normally go on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Mrs T. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Mrs Ts regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
It might also help to explain that what Im required to think about here in order to determine 
whether Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs T, is whether Mrs T had 
sufficient disposable income, once her regular living costs were deducted from her income, 
to enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement.
However, despite having been given sufficient opportunity to do so, Mrs T hasnt provided 
me with anything that clearly shows that once her regular living costs resulted were 
accounted for, the monthly payments were actually unaffordable for her. Therefore, Ive not 
been provided with sufficient evidence that clearly demonstrates further checks into Mrs Ts 
actual regular living costs would have made a difference here.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Mrs T did go far enough, 
Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence that clearly demonstrates reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have prevented Moneybarn from providing these funds, or 
entering into this agreement with her. 
Overall Ive therefore not been persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly towards Mrs T 
when it lent to her and Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman