DRN-3722332
The complaint
Ms G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has not refunded a payment she made to advertise a 
car for sale. She says that the service she received was not what was promised. 
What happened
Ms G bought an advertisement package from a supplier which Ill call A. She paid £84.95 
using her Monzo debit card. She was told that the package would attract buyers by getting   
her online advertisement for her car in the top tier of online searches. She was also able to 
re-book the advertisement for free, for as long as she wished. 
The car was not sold and the advertisement was re-booked. Ms G was unhappy that, when 
the advertisement was re-booked, her car did not appear to be in the top tier of searches. 
She complained to A and to Monzo. 
Monzo submitted a chargeback request through the relevant card scheme  in this case, 
Mastercard. The reason given was the services provided by A were not as advertised. The 
chargeback request was not, however, successful and the payment was not refunded. 
Ms G referred the matter to this service, where on of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, noting that Monzo had 
correctly raised the chargeback but that the card scheme had not found in its favour. Ms G 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a method of challenging card payments, run by the card schemes. It is a way 
of dealing with, for example, fraudulent or duplicate payments, as well as cases where 
goods or services have not been provided or are not as described. It is however a largely 
administrative process, so is not always ideal for dealing with disputes between customers 
and suppliers about the quality of goods or services. 
Card issuers are under no legal or regulatory obligation to submit a chargeback request, 
although we generally take the view that it is good practice to do so where there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. And, if a card issuer does issue a chargeback request, they 
should do so with proper care  for example, by supplying the correct evidence and 
chargeback reason. 
In this case, Monzo raised the chargeback request correctly. The card scheme concluded 
however that the services had been supplied and did not uphold the request. I appreciate 
that Ms G thinks it should have reached a different conclusion, but that was the decision of 
the scheme, not of Monzo. 
I do not believe that I can fairly say that Monzo should have done any more than it did in this 
case. It submitted a chargeback request, but it was not successful because Mastercard ruled 
in favour of A. In the circumstances, it would not be fair to ask Monzo to provide a refund to 
Ms G. 
I stress that, in reaching this decision, I make no comment at all on Ms Gs dispute with A. I 
have decided only whether Monzo acted fairly in dealing with the request for a refund, and I 
believe that it did.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Gs complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman