DRN-3188161
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice by County Capital Wealth Management 
Limited trading as The Pension Review Service (CC) to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose leaflet, giving them the 
options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 22 December 2017.
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his DB scheme. So, he contacted another firm (which Ill refer to as Firm A) for advice. 
Firm A completed a fact-find, pension transfer questionnaire and risk profile with Mr D on 
7 November 2017. Mr D says it verbally advised him to transfer out of the BSPS to a 
personal pension.
However, in late November 2017, Firm A informed Mr D that it couldnt complete the transfer 
for him due to restrictions to their regulatory permissions. It explained that if he still wanted to 
transfer he had to make alternative arrangements. It also reminded Mr D of the deadline by 
which he needed to make his choice. Firm A ultimately referred Mr D to CC for advice.
CC completed its own fact find in December 2017. This showed Mr D was 48, divorced, in 
good health with two dependent children. He was earning £40,000 per year and had savings 
of around £5,500. Mr D had a mortgage of £30,000, with repayments of £190 per month 
ending in 2031. Mr D was a member of his employers new money purchase pension, with 
him contributing 20% of his salary and his employer contributing 10%. His risk profile was 
recorded as being balanced.
A pension transfer questionnaire, also completed in December 2017, recorded that Mr D 
was considering a transfer because he wanted to retire at age 60 and he preferred that 
whatever was remaining of his pension when he died was left to his children as a lump sum. 
He also said he had lost confidence in his employer and wanted control of his pension.
On 3 January 2018, CC advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
and invest his funds through a discretionary fund management firm (DFM). The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr D wanted to access his 
pension flexibly at age 60 and leave the funds invested. CCs cashflow analysis had shown 
his financial position would potentially improve. Also the transfer value of his final salary 
scheme could be secured as a financial asset that could be passed on to his family in the 
event of his death. Mr D accepted the advice and his BSPS benefits were transferred.
Mr D, through his representative, complained in 2019 to Firm A and CC about the suitability 
of the transfer advice. Mr D said he never met with CC and transferred based on the advice 
given by Firm A. He said he shouldve been advised to opt into the BSPS2.
Firm A told Mr D it hadnt provided him with advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to CC.
CC didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said by the time Mr D had been referred to CC he had 
missed his opportunity to join the BSPS2, so his complaint should lie with Firm A.
Mr D referred his complaints about both businesses to this service. Firm A has since gone 
into liquidation and so this service cannot consider the complaint against it anymore.
An investigator thought the advice CC gave Mr D was unsuitable and said it should 
compensate Mr D for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension. He said 
compensation should be based on Mr D having moved his pension to the PPF given the 
deadline for joining the BSPS2 had passed by the time CC gave its advice.
CC disagreed. It said they were only providing a bureau service for Firm A and it was 
Firm As adviser who took Mr D through the cash flow analysis and reports. CC says Firm A 
played a key role in advising Mr D; he had already decided to transfer based on Firm As 
advice, so it should be held responsible for Mr Ds alleged loss. CC added using the critical 
yields required to match Mr Ds BSPS benefits alone as a basis for upholding the complaint 
was unreasonable. It also said it was unreasonable to compare the discount rates and 
critical yields as they do not measure the same thing. CC said the purpose of the transfer 
wasnt to provide higher income than the BSPS, it was to meet Mr Ds other objectives.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I informed both parties of a change to the redress calculation, which takes account of the 
impact of the BSPS trustees buying an insurance policy as part of the process of the pension 
scheme exiting its PPF assessment and completing a buy-out.
Mr Ds representative didnt respond.
CC didnt think the redress amendment was fair because it required CC to carry out another 
calculation to determine if additional redress was payable once the buy-out completed. CC 
said it should only have to compensate Mr D based on the position hed be in now, not at 
another point in the future. It said this meant Mr D was getting the best of both worlds. CC 
added that if it had known at the time of the advice that the BSPS would be bought out of the 
PPF, it wouldnt have advised Mr D to transfer his benefits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, CC should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in his best interests. Ill explain 
why.
Financial viability
CCs suitability report says that Mr D wanted to retire at age 60. The pension transfer 
questionnaire said Mr D wasnt sure what level of income he needed and he was undecided 
about whether he would take tax-free cash (TFC).
CC carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) showing the average investment 
return required in the new pension to match the DB pension benefits (critical yield). At age 
60, the critical yield was quoted as 5.92% per year if Mr D took a full pension and 5.46% per 
year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. But by the time the advice was given to Mr D, 
his only option was to allow his benefits to transfer out or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
So, I think the critical yields relating to the PPF are the most relevant figures to use. The 
critical yield to match the benefits available in the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 5.2% per 
year if he took a full pension and 4.76% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. The closest discount rate to this time which 
I'm able to refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 
1 October 2017. It was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement (age 60). For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate. Even 
taking the lowest critical yield here (4.76%), which was a comparison to the PPF at age 60 if 
Mr D took TFC, there was a real risk Mr D wouldnt have been able to match, let alone 
exceed his DB benefits in the personal pension if he was invested in line with a medium risk 
strategy as suggested.
CC says it is unreasonable to take the discount rate into account because it isnt a fair 
comparison to the critical yield. But I still think the discount rate provides a useful indication 
of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice 
was given in this case. And in any event, Ive also considered whether the regulators middle 
projection rate of 5% was achievable. Taking Mr Ds attitude to risk into account, I think a net 
return of 5% (that is, after platform, DFM and adviser fees) was unlikely. So, I still dont think 
he wouldve likely been able to match or exceed the benefits available to him through the 
PPF if he transferred out of the BSPS.
CC has said it told Mr D that the critical yields if he retired at age 60 were not achievable. 
Instead, CC says it recommended Mr D transfer out of the BSPS to meet his other 
objectives, although it says the cash flow models demonstrate that Mr D could meet his 
income requirements by transferring to a personal pension.
Ive considered CCs cash flow models which it says showed Mr D could have been 
significantly better off in the personal pension plan. They compared his existing situation with 
scenarios where his transfer value grew a) only in line with inflation, b) assuming returns of 
the recommended investment portfolio based on historic returns and c) a stress test where 
the transfer value fell by 14% in the first couple of years and then performed in line with 
historic returns of the asset allocation of the recommended portfolio.
I firstly note that in the model for Mr Ds existing financial position, for the total income, CC 
used an annual pension figure of £20,227 per year, which was the sum available to Mr D through the BSPS if he retired at age 60 and didnt take any TFC. But that figure was 
irrelevant because the only option Mr D actually had when the advice was given was for his 
benefits to enter the PPF. The figure also failed to include the annual increases on the 
BSPS/PPF benefits in payment. CCs models also show that if returns were only in line with 
inflation or there was poor performance for a couple of years, Mr Ds financial assets would 
actually be lower in the long-term than if he kept his DB pension. Also, as CC will know, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and 
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather 
than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
Overall, Im satisfied that by transferring his pension it was unlikely Mr Ds benefits would 
match, let alone exceed his existing benefits in the DB scheme. Instead there was a real risk 
he would be worse off in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in 
Mr Ds best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CC 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr D approached Firm A as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. Firm As fact-find 
and CCs pension transfer questionnaire states that Mr D had lost confidence in his 
employer and he wanted to have control of his pension. CCs suitability report further stated 
that Mr D had already decided that he did not want to keep his pension benefits in the BSPS.
Its quite possible that Mr D came to CC leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it 
was CCs obligation to recommend what was in his best interests. Mr D, like many of his 
colleagues, was concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive seen, CC 
didnt provide Mr D with an objective picture about the PPF and what this might mean for him 
specifically.
Mr D was clearly interested in retiring early and this was still possible in the PPF. In fact, the 
early retirement reductions were lower in the PPF than in the BSPS. I dont think this was 
shared with Mr D, instead, he was given the impression that because he wanted to retire 
early, he would be better off transferring out of the BSPS. However, as the figures above 
show, even if this happened, Mr D was still likely to be better off by not transferring out. 
I cant see that this was properly explained to him.
And in any event, I think Mr Ds concerns were with his employer generally. And I dont think 
CC explained that Mr Ds scheme benefits entering the PPF would remove his pension from 
his employers control. It seems to me that an explanation along those lines wouldve gone 
some way to reassuring Mr D about his concerns.
Overall, I dont think CC did much to alleviate Mr Ds concerns and fears. Instead, it appears 
to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.Flexibility
CC says that Mr D wanted flexibility in his pension contract, but it doesnt seem to have 
explored with Mr D why he needed that flexibility. According to the pension transfer 
questionnaire, Mr D was undecided about whether or not to take TFC. He had a small 
mortgage of £30,000, which would be fully repaid in around 14 years when Mr D would be 
63. But Mr D told CC he was intending to make overpayments towards the mortgage as he 
had sufficient disposable income. Mr D already had savings of over £5,000 and he was 
making significant contributions to his employers new money purchase pension. So, I think 
its unlikely he wouldve needed to take a lump sum from his BSPS pension to repay any 
debt when he took benefits at age 60.
 
If, however, Mr D did need to take a lump sum from his pension at age 60, he still couldve 
done this if his BSPS benefits moved with the scheme to the PPF. The pension transfer 
questionnaire said Mr D intended to start drawing an income at age 60. So, he didnt require 
the ability to take TFC and leave the remaining funds invested, which is the sort of flexibility 
the new arrangement provided. 
In terms of Mr Ds income needs, the pension transfer questionnaire stated that Mr D was 
undecided about what level of income he required, and this was repeated in CCs suitability 
report. But it suggested that if Mr D transferred to a personal arrangement hed be able to 
take £20,400 per year (net) which it considered to be sustainable assuming the mid growth 
rate projections were met. 
According to the fact-find, Mr Ds expected expenditure in retirement was around £1,700. 
This would equate to around £20,400 per year, which seems to tally with the 
recommendation given. But this figure included committing £500 per month to savings and 
I dont think Mr D wouldve needed to take extra money from his pension just to put it into his 
savings. With this in mind, it seems to me that Mr Ds actual income requirement in 
retirement was around £1,200 per month, or £14,400 per year. If Mr Ds pension moved with 
the scheme to the PPF, at age 60 hed be entitled to an escalating pension of £18,446.13 
per year or TFC of £100,116.29 and an escalating pension of £15,001.44 per year. 
Whatever combination of benefits Mr D took, I think hed comfortably be able to meet his 
income needs through the PPF. And while I havent seen any documented need to vary his 
income, if Mr D wanted to take a higher income in his early years of retirement, he couldve 
drawn on the funds that had built in his money purchase pension.
For this reason, I dont think CC shouldve advised Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS simply 
to have flexibility that it hadnt established he actually needed. So, I think Mr D should've 
been advised to let his DB scheme enter the PPF rather than transfer his pension to a 
personal pension.
Death Benefits
CC says Mr D wanted to ensure he could pass on whatever was remaining of his pension to 
his children upon his death. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a 
large sum to his children in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr D. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to advise 
Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think CC explored to what extent Mr D was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits with PPF were underplayed. Although Mr D was 
divorced, Firm As fact-find noted the possibility of him marrying again in future, in which 
case, his future partner would have received a spouses pension for life, which would have 
been valuable if Mr D predeceased them. Also, Mr D had generous death in service cover if 
he died before retirement. I cant see that any of these benefits were explained to Mr D in a 
balanced way.
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think CC 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report mentioned a 
whole of life policy with a sum assured of £521,900  this was discounted by Mr D because 
of the cost (£537 per month). But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this 
option to Mr D.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ds BSPS benefits essentially assumed that he 
would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr D 
wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his children, which would be a lot less 
than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point 
ought to have been to ask Mr D how much he would ideally like to leave to his children, and 
this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be 
a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk free 
and increasing income. By transferring, he was risking obtaining lower retirement benefits 
and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer
and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were properly
explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr D was likely keen to transfer out as
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr D. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS.
On balance I think Mr D would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. 
Mr D was an inexperienced investor and he was concerned about the security of his 
pension. This pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and I dont think 
he wouldve wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it. So, if CC had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. So, I think CC should compensate Mr D 
for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology. As 
Mr D had lost the opportunity to opt into the BSPS2 by the time CC gave him advice, it is the 
benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison purposes.
Ive taken into account CCs comments about the fairness of the redress method which 
requires it to carry out a second calculation.Ive considered this carefully, but I think it would be fair for CC to carry out the second 
calculation and pay to Mr D any additional compensation this calculation produces as a 
result of the buy-out completing. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Mr D shouldve 
been advised to allow his pension to move with the scheme to the PPF. And as Mr Ds 
pension wouldnt have been in payment at the time the buy-out is completed, I think he may 
have been entitled to an increase in benefits as a result of the buy-out if he had been in the 
PPF. So, it is only fair that Mr Ds settlement takes account of this. I dont think this means 
Mr D is getting the best of both worlds, it simply seeks to compensate him for the position he 
shouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I appreciate that CC says it wouldnt have advised Mr D to transfer out of the BSPS if it knew 
it would be bought out of the PPF. But I dont think that is particularly relevant here. CC 
needed to determine whether transferring out of the BSPS or moving with the scheme to the 
PPF was in Mr Ds best interests. And I still think it was clear Mr D wouldve been better off 
moving with the scheme to the PPF, and that transferring out wasnt suitable for him, 
regardless of any future buy-out.
Firm As involvement
I understand CC says it only performed a bureau service for Firm A. CC said Firm A had 
already advised Mr D to transfer and they were still heavily involved in the advice process 
throughout.
I cant consider the complaint against Firm A as they have gone into liquidation. However, 
based on the information I have seen it seems likely that Firm A had previously verbally 
advised Mr D to transfer and it continued to be involved in the process. However, 
notwithstanding Firm As involvement, CC had a duty to give Mr D suitable advice and 
without its advice a transfer couldnt have proceeded. CC is responsible for their own actions 
here.
Nevertheless, if CC had given suitable advice, Mr D would have had a recommendation not 
to transfer out of the BSPS from CC, but he still wouldve had the verbal advice to transfer 
from Firm A. Its possible that Firm A might have continued to persuade Mr D to proceed with 
the transfer. However, given that Firm A had not been able to proceed with the advice due to 
issues with the regulator, I think on balance Mr D would have listened to CCs advice if its 
reasons why a transfer wasnt in his interest had been explained properly. So in my view it 
was CCs unsuitable advice that ultimately led to Mr D transferring his DB benefits. For this 
reason, I think its fair and reasonable to hold CC fully responsible for any losses this transfer 
caused Mr D. If CC considers that Firm A should also be held liable, CC is free to pursue 
Firm A directly after having compensated Mr D in full.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CC to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So 
calculations should be undertaken on this assumption.
CC must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr D's acceptance of the decision.
CC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr D's SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
CC receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CC to 
pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
 
It's been announced that:
 
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
 
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022.  Mr D would possibly have been entitled to an increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF. So, I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating Mr D.
I dont think its reasonable for CC to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety until 
the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair CC calculates and pays Mr D compensation now as set out above 
comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and more 
detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, CC should do a 
second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress applicable at 
the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr D would have been entitled 
to after the buy-out. 
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. CC should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr D becomes 
aware further information is available, he should let CC know. If the second calculation 
results in a higher redress amount than the first calculation, CC must pay Mr D the 
difference. If the second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the 
first calculation, no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr D 
within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes CC to pay Mr D.
For the upset caused by the unsuitable advice, CC should also pay Mr D £400.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require County 
Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want toconsider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision.
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr D 
and his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman