DRN-2835290
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly declined a claim on his marine insurance 
policy, after his boat was stolen.
What happened
Mr Ps boat was stolen from a boat yard whilst on its trailer. Zurich declined the claim 
because the trailer didnt have a wheel clamp fitted at the time of the theft, which is a 
requirement of the policy.
Mr P complained that he had exceeded the policys security requirements. He says, instead 
of leaving his boat in an easily accessible place with one wheel clamp, he paid for it to be 
stored in a secured compound with security lighting and CCTV cameras.
Mr P told Zurich the CCTV shows four people:
- breaking into the compound;
- cutting the wires to the security lights;
- cutting a lock on the high steel security gates;
- cutting through chains and locks that secured boats parked in front of his;
- moving those other boats out of the way;
- cutting through locks and chains securing his trailer; and
- hitching up the boat and taking it away
Mr P says this was a very determined gang who would have had no problem removing a 
wheel clamp. He says online videos show how easily wheel clamps can be removed.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and based on the information available, 
he initially didnt think the absence of a wheel clamp was material to the loss. However, he 
re-considered matters after the CCTV footage was provided to him. Zurich made the 
following points about the footage:
- The thieves didnt appear to be heavily equipped with tools which would have 
enabled them to cut through a wheel clamp quickly.
- The CCTV wasnt being monitored, so other than acting as a visual deterrent, the 
CCTV provided no additional security.
- It doesnt appear any other boats were moved out of the way to access Mr Ps boat. 
The boats were parked bow facing outwards, with an open area in the middle of the 
compound; and any movement of the other boats would have been minimal and 
required minimal effort.
- Theres no evidence the trailer was secured with chains and a lock. The trailer is out 
of sight in a lot of the CCTV footage, but theres clear footage of the area where the 
trailer was previously being held, after it had been moved by the thieves; and in this 
footage theres no signs of a lock or chains, or something to secure the trailer to.
- Had a wheel clamp been fitted, the theft would have required the use of heavy tools; 
increasing the noise and time taken. These measures would have acted as a strong 
deterrent, and other boats would have likely been targeted instead. This is why the 
policy requires the specific security measures to be taken.
- If it was evident a wheel clamp wouldnt have made a difference, for example, if the 
thieves had been armed with heavy tools and cut through a security device of the 
same standard, it may have accepted the claim. But having reviewed the CCTV 
footage, thats not the case.
After considering the footage and Zurichs comments, our investigator didnt think the claim 
had been unfairly declined. Mr P disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps boat was left on its trailer unhitched from a vehicle. The policy terms exclude theft of 
the boat in such circumstances, unless the trailer is secured by a wheel clamp. 
An insurer has an obligation to provide information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way. 
This means an insurer needs to bring onerous terms to the attention of its policyholder, so 
they know they need to do something to be covered. Here, the security requirements are 
clearly set out in the policy booklet, and on a two page policy summary document which 
highlights the information. Mr P hasnt disputed the renewal invite included the policy 
summary document. Therefore, Im satisfied Zurich can fairly rely on the security 
requirements when considering the claim.
Whilst I appreciate Mr P kept his boat in a boat yard, that doesnt mean the policys security 
requirements didnt apply. I consider it reasonable to accept that, a trailer secured with a 
wheel clamp presents less of a risk than a trailer without one. Importantly, these are the 
terms Mr P agreed to, and thats the level of risk Zurich agreed to take on.
Mr P says he had exceeded the security requirements. But I havent seen anything that 
persuades me thats the case. CCTV and a gated yard dont, in my view, go beyond 
clamping the trailer.
The CCTV doesnt show the thieves had to overcome any security measures to enter the 
yard, that they had tools, or that Mr Ps trailer (or any other trailer) was secured by 
something.
Mr P says the CCTV doesnt show the area of the boat yard where his boat was secured or 
the location of the boats that had to be moved to get to his boat. He says the other CCTV 
cameras were disconnected by the thieves. He says you therefore cant see the thieves 
cutting the locks and chains. However, whilst I accept the footage doesnt show the full 
circumstances, it nevertheless doesnt support his trailer was secured. Mr P also says the evidence of the cut locks and chains were there when the police arrived. 
However, whilst I accept Mr P was told that by the boat yard, nothing has been presented 
which confirms the attending officers findings and/or observations. Furthermore, I would 
need to be persuaded that any locks and chains used could reasonably be considered 
equivalent to a wheel clamp, given this is the security measure specified by the policy. 
I havent seen anything that persuades me cutting through a locked chain would have 
required the same effort, or made the same noise, as removing a wheel clamp.
The CCTV footage shows that the incident occurred over a few hours and involved several 
individuals with vehicles, who attempted to steal more than one boat. As such, I accept the 
theft wasnt necessarily quick and easy. However, based on what the footage shows, or 
doesnt show, in respect of the security measures and the force required to steal Mr Ps 
boat, I cant reasonably decide Zurich should cover the claim.
In my view, not complying with the policys security requirements can directly be linked to the 
loss in question. So, Im not persuaded Zurich unfairly declined the claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman