DRN-4222186
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
A representative has supported Mr H in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive mainly 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his motor insurance policy and the matter eventually proceeded to 
court and the matter was settled on a non-fault basis in Mr Hs favour. Unfortunately, Mr Hs 
excess wasnt entered as part of his costs by his solicitor, so he complained to Markerstudy 
about this.
Markerstudy explained to Mr H that he needed to tell his solicitor about any uninsured losses 
so they could be requested from the other side as part of settlement. Once Mr H made 
Markerstudy aware that they hadnt been considered as part of the settlement it did try to 
recover the costs from the third-party insurer on his behalf, but the third-party refused. As Mr 
H wasnt happy about this and the fact that Markerstudy wouldnt refund the excess or offer 
any compensation he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H but didnt uphold his complaint. He looked at the 
circumstances surrounding the complaint, but he didnt feel it was fair to hold Markerstudy 
responsible for Mr H not telling the solicitor to include his excess in any uninsured losses as 
part of the claim. He was satisfied that Markerstudy wrote out to Mr H about this in order to 
ensure any uninsured losses were advanced within the claim.
As Mr H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think it would be fair to ask Markerstudy to pay Mr H his policy excess 
as a matter of good will. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain 
why. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration here as it seems he presumed his policy excess would 
be recovered automatically as part of the court proceedings. But he ought to already have 
been aware that his excess was due under the policy as is ordinarily the case in any motor 
insurance claim. And so, he needed to tell the solicitor about any uninsured costs he wished 
to claim when the solicitor wrote out about this but unfortunately he didnt. 
I understand that Mr H would like his excess back, but he should have ensured this was 
advanced as part of his uninsured losses through his solicitor and I cant hold Markerstudy 
responsible for this. I know Mr Hs representative has suggested that Mr H attended court as 
a witness to support Markerstudys claim but he was duty bound to cooperate with the 
insurer. And as our investigator explained, Mr H has had the benefit of having a non-fault 
claim as opposed to a fault claim marked against him so he should be able to have the 
benefit of cheaper insurance going forward. 
Overall, although I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mr H I dont think Markerstudy has 
done anything wrong. It acted fairly in trying to see if the third-party insurer would honour the 
uninsured loss (the policy excess) when it was made aware that this hadnt been included in 
the court proceedings which was fair. It is unfortunate the other side wouldnt honour this, 
but I cant hold Markerstudy responsible. And ultimately Mr H should have made the solicitor 
aware of any uninsured costs, such as his policy excess, so that they could have been 
recovered as part of the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman