DRN-3436594
The complaint
Mr T complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) gave 
him advice to invest in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 which was unsuitable. 
Mr T says the recommended funds were too high risk for an investor with his inexperience 
and for someone with minimal spare income like his.
Mr Ts complaint is brought by a claims management company but Ive referred to Mr T 
when referring to things said or done by Mr T or by his representative on his behalf.
What happened
Mr T invested around £2000 in 1998 in a UK growth fund. He had savings elsewhere of 
more than £9000. This included funds for his business. He was self-employed and in work. 
He was in his thirties and single with no dependents. His income covered his outgoings.
The advisers notes say Mr T selected balanced for his attitude to risk. His recorded risk 
attitude was the same and his circumstances hadnt substantially changed at the other sales. 
His investment objectives throughout included building up savings and investing for growth. 
In 1999 Mr T was advised to invest a further £5,000 in the same fund. He had cash savings 
elsewhere exceeding £20,000. The investment was to be made from these. It was noted that 
Mr T had specific plans for a large part of the rest. A higher income surplus was recorded 
than before and he was advised to put most of this, £100 per month, into the same fund. 
In 2000 Mr T was advised to invest £50 per month into the fund and £150 per month into a 
European growth fund. This was from an income surplus higher than before. He kept more 
than £9000 in cash savings.
In 2001 he was advised to invest £200 per month into a US Growth fund and £50 more per 
month into the UK and European funds. This exceeded his income surplus of over £150 per 
month. He also had more than £15,000 in cash savings at the time. 
Monthly contributions stopped after 2001 but Mr T didnt make withdrawals until 2009 and 
the investments remained and werent closed until some years after that.
Our investigator thought the recommendations met Mr Ts objectives and were suitable. The 
investigator noted Mr T had more experience at the time of later investments and that Mr T 
had made the payments he made so it looked like they were in fact affordable.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He said the UK fund was medium risk and 
too high risk for an inexperienced investor and the same applied when he invested again a 
year later. He didnt comment on the European or US funds used in 2000 and 2001 but he 
said the contributions recommended in 2001 meant he spent more than he earned - and 
although he kept paying money in, this doesnt make that advice suitable.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr T was first advised to invest in 1998, he was in work and his income was covering 
his expenditure, including his mortgage. The surplus was apparently small, but he was living 
within his means. He was relatively young and had no dependents.
Mr T was self-employed, so his cash funds might be called upon to cover business as well 
as personal expenses  as well as income variations that might arise.
Taking all that into account, I still think the sum he was investing was modest in comparison 
to his savings and also his income. The amount he invested appears to have come from a 
maturing policy of some sort. It was in addition to the cash he held on deposit and was less 
than a quarter of his total cash funds.
Also theres nothing that suggests to me that it was likely the invested funds would need to 
be called upon in the short term for any particular purpose. Mr T appears to have been in a 
position to invest what he invested for the medium to long term  which in actual fact is also 
what happened.
In these circumstances, it seems to me Mr T could afford to invest the sum he did and to 
take a degree of risk with it if he wanted  and in my view the degree of risk the selected 
fund exposed him to was one he could afford to take with the sum he was investing. 
In my view the same can also be said of the later investments. Mr T had sufficient capacity 
to bear loss so, as long as he understood and was willing to take the risk of loss involved, 
the recommendations he received could be suitable. 
So I dont agree that the, at times very limited, extent to which Mr Ts income exceeded his 
recorded spending means the funds were too risky to recommend. Also I dont agree his 
status as a first-time investor in 1998, or an inexperienced investor later, in itself means the 
recommended funds were too risky to be recommended to Mr T. He didnt have experience 
of funds that invested in shares. But that doesnt mean he couldnt or didnt have sufficient 
understanding of the risk of loss the recommended funds involved. With his lack of 
experience in mind, investing a modest sum in 1998 looks like a sensible way to start.
The monthly sums Mr T was advised to contribute in 2001 exceeded his spare income. But 
the notes say Mr T had a minimum sum earmarked for investment but preferred not to put it 
all into the stock market at once. So what he put in was funded from savings rather than 
income, and affordable on that basis. The notes refer to his cash flow situation and note that 
Mr T may sacrifice immediate growth potential by not investing all he had to invest at once. 
All this in my view supports the idea due consideration was given to how much to invest. In 
my view, rather than suggesting negligence, it suggests advice given with due care.
Of course, Mr T was free to choose to take a lesser degree of risk if he wanted. But Ive 
concluded he could accept the degree of risk involved in the funds if he wished. 
The notes say Mr T chose balanced to describe his attitude to risk  the 1998 notes show 
this as the middle option with the others being cautious and adventurous. Not much else 
is said about this in the papers from the time. So I merely note that Mr T didnt choose the 
lowest risk option offered or the highest.Mr T says the UK fund was medium risk. Balanced is another term commonly carrying the 
same meaning. Mr Ts position is that a medium risk or balanced risk attitude - or investing in 
that type of fund - was not feasible in Mr Ts situation. Ive explained above why I disagree.
Ive considered the nature and risks of the recommended funds and whether what we have 
suggests Mr T was willing to take the risk involved. Factsheets from the time showing how 
exactly the funds were invested havent been offered, but it is apparent what type of fund 
each fund was and we have some information about their broad objectives. 
The UK fund was likely diversified across a range of shares. It was designed to invest in 
shares rather than other assets, making it likely riskier than a fund investing in lower risk 
assets or a mixed fund containing lower risk assets as well as shares. It had a growth focus, 
making it likely riskier than an income fund that would emphasise companies with 
established dividend streams which are often also larger companies.
That said, this doesnt mean the fund didnt still invest substantially or mainly in larger UK 
companies, which make up the bulk of the UK market by value. It wasnt a specialist fund, so 
its holdings arent likely to have been concentrated within any specific narrow sector or in 
smaller companies but instead diversified across a range of sectors. It was UK focussed, so 
also not exposed to the currency risk an overseas focus brings, and also not exposed to the 
higher risks that can accompany sizeable holdings in riskier overseas places.
We dont have much to show how exactly the risks were described or explained to Mr T at 
the time. Also its likely the fund did have its risker aspects, as Ive discussed. But I think 
someone in Mr Ts circumstances with the attitude to risk he expressed and with sufficient 
understanding of the risks of the fund, could have still agreed to invest in the fund. On 
balance, I think its likely this is what happened here. I dont think the evidence we have of 
Mr Ts risk attitude shows that the fund involved risks of a kind or degree greater than Mr T 
had likely indicated he was willing to take in his circumstances.
Looking at the European and US funds, it is plain they carried additional risks compared to 
the UK fund. Both were subject to currency risk in a way the UK fund was not. In the case of 
the European fund, there was also the potential for some of the fund to be invested in riskier 
overseas places  not all European markets would have liquidity and oversight comparable 
to the UK market. So these investments do raise different questions.
On the other hand, given Mr Ts existing investments, his contributions to these funds 
offered some geographical diversification. Also he had greater experience of investing by 
that point. I acknowledge that the experience was limited, and I note the value of experience 
will vary depending on the person and also the particular market conditions experienced. But 
it is still a factor that I think increases the likelihood that Mr T understood the risks the funds 
involved. Also, the liquidity and oversight in the larger European markets from which the bulk 
of the European funds assets were likely sourced, are comparable to the UK position. The 
fund wasnt a specialist fund concentrated in emerging regions or smaller companies. 
I also note that contributions to the US and European funds were made by way of monthly 
rather than single contributions and this wouldve had the effect of helping reduce market 
timing risk  which was also the reason given for this monthly approach being taken in 2001. 
So it is apparent that at the time some consideration was given specifically to the volatility of 
these funds.
So, although the narrative in the notes about the risks of the European and US funds was 
largely the same as for the UK fund, it is apparent that in practice the approach taken to 
these funds by Mr T was different  treating the funds with a bit more caution. It looks like a 
sensible approach in the circumstances.With this and all Ive said above in mind, what we have doesnt make me think that Mr Ts 
investments in these funds were most likely unsuitable for his willingness to take risk  and 
Ive already explained that I think the risk involved was risk he could afford to take if he 
wanted.  On balance I think more likely than not the advice to invest in these funds was 
reasonable and suitable for Mr Ts circumstances, objectives and willingness to risk loss.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Im grateful to Mr T for his patience and courtesy throughout and I thank both parties for the 
assistance provided to us during our investigation of this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman