DRN-3017839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Lloyds Bank PLC gave them unsuitable investment advice in 2003. 
The complaint was brought by a professional representative. Ive referred to Mr and Mrs C 
when referring to things said or done by them or by their representative on their behalf.
What happened
Mr C had been made redundant and Mr and Mrs C had received a redundancy package. 
Mr and Mrs C have said Mrs C had also been made redundant from her employer. Lloyds 
invited them for a review of possible investment options.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs C to invest £14,000 into ISAs (one each) and £11,000 into a joint 
guaranteed investment bond with £3,000 also being put into a term deposit account.
The ISAs were invested in a corporate bond fund in the UK corporate bond sector. The fund 
invested almost entirely in investment grade fixed interest assets issued by companies or 
governments in the UK and Europe.
In their complaint, Mr and Mrs C have said the risk involved was too high. Also it was the 
wrong time to invest, given Mr C had lost his job and still didnt have work at the time of the 
meeting a while later. Also Mrs C didnt pay tax, so the ISA wasnt of benefit to her.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Our investigators findings were, 
in brief:
Lloyds notes from the sale suggest it did consider Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances in 
detail - including their income, their assets and cash, their attitude to risk, their 
investment objectives and how long they could invest for.
Mr C expected to work again in the near future and obtain earnings on top of and in 
excess of his pension. It was noted that there was no rush for Mrs C to return to work 
and that she might not do so. So Mr and Mrs Cs financial position was comfortable and 
they could afford to invest for the future, even though Mr C wasnt yet back in work.
Also, the advice letter discussed how Mr and Mrs C had been careful not to overcommit 
themselves. If Mr C didnt return to work as soon as expected, Mr and Mrs C still had 
ready cash to last more than a year, based on their monthly spending. They also had the 
maturity proceeds of their joint savings plan to come in 18 months time.
After they invested, Mr and Mrs C had over £10,000 in a current account and a £15,000 
savings plan due to mature in 18 months. They owed £20,000 on their mortgage. 
The advice letter said Mr and Mrs Cs investment aim was to achieve growth in the 
medium to long term (at least five years) and the recommendations were low risk and 
suitable for cautious investors like Mr and Mrs C.
Mrs C hadnt ruled out returning to work, so the tax benefits of the ISA mightve been of 
use and didnt disadvantage her in the meantime. The ISA was suitable as a vehicle for 
investing for growth.
Mr and Mrs Cs money was invested into products that suited their appetite to risk as 
recorded in Lloyds notes. The risk carried by the recommended products and the assets 
into which the ISAs invested, wasnt unsuitably high for Mr and Mrs Cs cautious attitude 
to risk. The ISA met the objective of trying for better growth. There was a risk the value 
of the capital would be eroded by inflation over the term of the guaranteed bond, and any 
positive return depended on the performance of the FTSE 100 index, but it was at least 
guaranteed to return the invested capital.
It wasnt wrong for Mr and Mrs C to invest at that time. In the circumstances, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Lloyds to investigate their situation and give the advice that it gave.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. In brief, they said Mr C not 
being in work and Mr and Mrs C having cash to keep them going for just over 12 months 
was a reason why it would have been more appropriate at that time to delay the advice until 
Mr C was in a more secure position.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusions as our adjudicator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Investing before Mr C found new work carried the risk that finding work might take longer or 
not work out as Mr C expected. In different situations like that, that risk will vary: Obtaining 
the expected work might be all but certain or it might be no more than a fanciful hope. 
If Lloyds didnt have grounds for being confident Mr Cs situation was nearer to the certain 
than the uncertain end of that spectrum, I agree it ought to have advised Mr and Mrs C to 
keep more liquid funds available. This may have meant delaying the investment. Indeed, a 
cautious approach is to be preferred as the starting point in these situations. But delaying 
investing also has disadvantages  it means delaying the chance of getting a better return.
In this case, Lloyds notes say Mr C was very confident of getting enough work earnings for 
Mr and Mrs C to live on. As a result, Mrs C was expected to have the option of not working. 
The specifics of Mr Cs plans and possible jobs he could take up were also discussed  so 
the point appears to have been given careful consideration at the time. The particular work 
that was discussed doesnt suggest to me that Mr C would find it more difficult than he 
expected to find the work he thought he would find. He hadnt taken up work at the time of 
the advice but in my view it still wasnt long since his redundancy, so that doesnt change my 
view.
With all this in mind, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to take the view that Mr C was likely 
to get work earnings like he thought he would. But in any case, as our investigator pointed 
out, Mr and Mrs C also kept cash back to handle the situation if the work Mr C expected 
didnt materialise as quickly as he expected. Those funds could last them for quite a while. 
Mr and Mrs C also had the fallback option of Mrs C seeking work.With all this in mind, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs Cs situation at the time made it the wrong 
time to make the investments that they made. 
Id mention also that Mr C was drawing a pension and Mr and Mrs C dont seem to have had 
much other pension provision or a lot of other savings besides those discussed above. So 
their idea of putting money aside for the future seems to me to have been a good idea. They 
preferred not to take income from the ISAs initially  allowing growth for the future  which 
seems sensible too. When earmarking resources, there was a balance to be struck between 
short-term and long-term needs. In the unlikely event the work or earnings Mr C was able to 
get turned out to be so different to what he expected that the cash theyd already put aside 
was not enough, it seems to me that other changes to their plans, like Mrs C returning to 
work for example, might have merited exploration before sacrificing longer-term savings.
Turning to risk, the attitude to risk box in the advisers notes asks whether capital security 
was required. The answer given there, for the sum Mr and Mrs C invested, is Yes. I note 
that the guaranteed investment bond did offer capital security. I dont think any counterparty 
risk associated with the provision of the guarantee ought to have materially changed the 
view that the bond offered capital security. But the ISA did not offer capital security  its 
value would rise and fall with the value of its underlying investments.
In this regard I note that the advice letter, signed by Mr and Mrs C a few days after the initial 
meeting, says: although you are prepared to accept some risk you would like the comfort 
of some capital security on a portion of your investment monies. So I think Mr and Mrs Cs 
capital security requirement applied to some and not all the invested funds. The discussion 
in the advisers notes of the capital security of the bond and the low risk posed by the ISAs, 
also seems consistent with this.
On that basis the mix of capital secure and capital at risk products Lloyds recommended in 
my view matches what the advice letter says Mr and Mrs C were looking for. The advice 
letter also says you are prepared to accept some risk for a portion of some of the monies 
you are investing and with this in mind Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were willing to accept 
some risk to capital, although they wanted this to be a low risk.
The guaranteed bond would not guarantee the capital if the bond were cashed-in before the 
end of its term. But that risk was made clear to Mr and Mrs C. Also theyd had a long-term 
savings plan before, so they were familiar with longer term savings. The value of the ISAs 
could fall and wasnt guaranteed. That was also made clear and the risk of loss posed by the 
fund wasnt in my view unsuitable given what was recorded about Mr and Mrs Cs risk 
attitude.
So, in light of their circumstances and attitude to risk, the recommended investments did not 
expose Mr and Mrs Cs invested funds to too much risk in my view - and I dont think they 
exposed too much of their money to those risks either. The risk involved was made clear and 
was not inappropriate in my view. Also Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs C lost out as a 
result of investing within rather than outside an ISA. 
So in my view the investment advice was not unsuitable. 
The advice letter sets out details of what appears to have been a sensible discussion of 
other areas of financial need  suggesting an advice process that was considered and 
balanced. This only serves to reinforce my conclusion above.
In conclusion, I dont uphold this complaint. Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for their patience 
and I thank the parties for their assistance throughout our investigation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman