DRN-1520509
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service through its agents 
when he made a claim on his motor breakdown policy.
For ease of reading, any reference to UKI also includes its agents.
What happened
In September 2019 whilst driving, Mr C became aware that there was something wrong with 
his car. It was overheating and he saw that the water levels were low. He called UKI for 
assistance. A technician was sent out who diagnosed an issue with the thermostat and put 
cold water into the tank. He then followed Mr C for a short distance on the motorway to see if 
this had resolved the issue. Mr C says that on the journey there was steam coming from the 
engine.
Mr C took his car to a garage. He has told us they said that the water tank cap had been left 
off. The garage diagnosed a head gasket failure and that said there is possibly damage to 
the cylinder head. Mr C has provided a quote for repairs that are for over £2,000. 
Mr C complained to UKI. He said that the technician mis-diagnosed the issue and put cold 
water into the hot engine.  And he said that by allowing him to drive the vehicle, rather than 
towing it, he thinks this has caused more damage. So, he thinks UKI should pay for these 
repairs.
 
UKI looked into the complaint. It said that a thermostat failure and a head gasket failure will 
display the same symptoms and it isnt possible to conclusively diagnose a head gasket fault 
at the roadside. It also said the engine would have cooled sufficiently during the time Mr C 
was waiting for the technician to arrive so no additional damage would have been caused by 
the cold water being put in the tank. And in relation to not towing the vehicle, UKI said that 
as the car was topped up with water and was running to temperature with no further 
problems, it would consider the car safe to drive. It said that if further problems arose during 
his onward journey Mr C should have stopped and made a further call out.
One of our investigators considered the issue. She found that it was more likely that the 
damage to the head gasket was the cause of the initial breakdown but there was no 
evidence that the cylinder head was damaged as a result of him being allowed to continue to 
drive the car. So, she didnt think UKI had to pay for this cost. She also looked into concerns 
Mr C had made about the report completed by the technician. She said she wasnt in a 
position to say who had signed the document but she couldnt see why the technician would 
have forged the signature as the report was accepted as a fair reflection of what had 
happened on the day and that there was a box to tick if the signature isnt obtained. 
As Mr C disagreed with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to Mr C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its 
remit and my role in it.
And where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Both parties appear to agree that the damage to the head gasket was likely to be the initial 
cause. So this isnt in dispute. However, what I need to decide is whether the actions of the 
technician are likely to have caused any additional damage to Mr Cs vehicle.
UKI has said that, although the technician incorrectly diagnosed the problem as being a 
thermostat issue, the symptoms for head gasket and thermostat failure are the same. And it 
isnt always possible for a head gasket problem to be diagnosed at the roadside. I think it is 
reasonable to assume that the conditions for a roadside breakdown agent are different to 
that of a mechanic in a garage. At the roadside there will be restrictions, such as limited tools 
and access to certain parts of a car. So, Im persuaded that the technicians diagnosis was 
fair based on the situation at the time. 
Mr C has referred to the agent putting cold water into the car when it was still hot and that he 
thinks this caused more damage. UKI has said that as it took more than an hour for the 
agent to arrive at the roadside, the engine would have been sufficiently cooled by the time 
the water was added. Im not a mechanic and therefore I have to rely on the information 
provided by those who would be considered as experts  UKIs technicians and the opinion 
of the garage where Mr C took his car. Ive looked at the garage report provided by Mr C and 
it doesnt mention anything about this action causing the damage. So, Im more persuaded 
by the explanation provided by UKI. Without expert evidence to support Mr Cs belief, I cant 
agree that UKI has done anything wrong here.
One of the issues Mr C has raised is that, by allowing him to drive his vehicle, more damage 
was caused. He thinks that he should have been towed to the garage. UKI has said that the 
problem appeared resolved when the water was added to the tank so there was no need for 
the car to be towed. Ive thought about this carefully and I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration 
here as the repair costs are expensive. If this was as a result of the technicians actions, 
then I believe it would be right for UKI to cover these expenses. But the evidence doesnt 
support Mr Cs view. 
UKI has said that the technician was able to do a recovery but that it wasnt deemed 
necessary. It says the technician checked with Mr C at the next junction and the vehicle was 
running to temperature without any further issues. Im mindful that Mr C disagrees with the 
technicians comments about what happened when he stopped at the junction but if Mr C 
had been concerned about driving the vehicle at that point I think he would have said so. 
And if he had been worried during his journey he could have called UKI back out to check 
again. Based on what was known at the time, Im satisfied UKIs actions were reasonable. 
Im also conscious of the fact that Mr Cs garage report doesnt mention the cause of this 
potential damage. Therefore, whilst I fully accept Mr Cs strength of feeling on the matter, Im 
not of the opinion that there is sufficient information to show that UKI has caused the 
damage.
Mr C has said that it isnt his signature on the job sheet and that he thinks this shows the 
technician has done something wrong. As our investigator mentioned, we are not handwriting experts and so I wouldnt be able to conclusively say whether the signature was 
that of Mr C or not. But Im not persuaded that this would make a difference to the outcome 
of his complaint. The report confirms what the agent thought the diagnosis was and the 
repairs he had completed  so I dont believe there is anything on that form which the 
technician wouldnt have wanted Mr C to see. So, Im satisfied that this document represents 
a fair explanation of the work that was completed  regardless of whether this was seen by 
Mr C at the time.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but for the reasons Ive stated above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman