DRN-2558484
The complaint
Mr T says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says the loans contributed to his worsening debt situation and so Satsuma shouldnt 
have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr T between November 
2018 and March 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 27/11/2018 £300 6 17/06/2019
2 10/03/2019 £850 10 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks Satsuma had made were 
appropriate and the checks showed Satsuma that Mr T could afford the loan repayments.  
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He says the he wasnt protected enough, and 
he shouldnt have been given the second loan as easily as he was. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr T could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come 
a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Mr T needed to repay around £95 per month for six months after taking it. This 
increased to £170 for loan two. Mr T needed to repay loan two over 10 months. 
Ive seen a record of the information that Satsuma obtained when Mr T applied for these 
loans. This was a mixture of information provided by Mr T and the information that Satsuma 
obtained from a credit reference agency. 
Mr T said had a monthly income of £2,000 at the time of both loans. And he had regular 
monthly outgoings of around £1,700 at the time of loan 1 and £1,500 at the time of loan 2. 
So, it would have been reasonable for Satsuma to think the loan repayments were affordable 
for Mr T. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr T mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. Mr T hasnt provided any detail or further information 
about the problems he says he had. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for these loans was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Mr Ts complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman