DRN-3436740
The complaint
Mr G complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions (Monese)
blocked his account without reason. Mr M also complains about the time taken and service
received when trying to remove the block.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr G had an account with Monese. Over a sustained period, Mr G used his account for 
trading in addition to other transactions. On 26 March 2021 Monese blocked Mr Gs 
account. Mr G says no one contacted him to ask for information or let him know he needed 
to take action in relation to his account.
Mr G has explained he repeatedly tried to contact Monese to find out why his account had 
been blocked. Mr G sent Monese daily emails and used its online chat facility in an attempt 
to escalate the issue and remove the block. Around 6 April 2021 Monese said it couldnt 
deal with Mr G via its online chat facility and that its compliance team would get in touch.
The block was removed by Monese on 12 April 2021 and Mr G was notified. Mr G withdrew 
his funds.
Monese issued several responses to Mr Gs complaint and offered a final award of £227 to 
apologise for what happened. But Monese didnt say why Mr Gs account had been 
blocked and he asked our service to look at his complaint. An investigator considered Mr 
Gs case but felt the existing offer was a fair way to resolve his complaint. Mr G asked to 
appeal and explain Monese had still failed to clearly explain its actions. Mr G also said he 
didnt feel Moneses offer was fair.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above as all parties broadly agree concerning the overall timeline 
for Mr Gs complaint. Its clear Mr Gs account was blocked for around two weeks and that 
he repeatedly tied to contact Monese during that perriod to remove the block and access 
his money.
Mr G has asked for more clarification about why his account was blocked. Monese has 
repeatedly quoted its terms, so I wont do so again here. But they allow Monese to block or 
suspend an account in certain circumstances. In this case, Monese has confirmed the 
suspension was an error that was removed by its compliance team once his account was 
reviewed. I appreciate that response lacks the detail Mr G wants, but Im satisfied Monese 
has explained what happened.
Whilst mistakes can happen, I can understand why Mr G is particularly upset here. His 
account was blocked but no contact was made by Monese to try and verify him or take 
action to make sure he could access his funds. Ive looked at the level of contact Mr G tried 
to initiate with Monese. He sent increasingly concerned emails on a daily basis and also 
tried to resolve matters via Moneses chat facility. Monese either didnt respond or told Mr G 
it couldnt help him. I appreciate at one point Mr G was told a compliance team would be in 
touch. But it took around a week from that point (as far as I can see) for anyone at Monese 
to do anything to contact or assist Mr G.
Added to that is the inconvenience of having an account blocked for around two weeks. 
Monese says this isnt Mr Gs main account. Whilst that may be the case, its clearly an 
account he used very regularly. Monese said Mr G used it for trading purposes  which is 
correct. But the statements show he also used the debit card and account for purchases 
and other transactions. So Im satisfied that in addition to the distress caused to Mr G, 
there was a reasonable level of inconvenience as well.
Monese offered Mr G £227 but Im not persuaded that figure fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on Mr G. In my view, a figure of £400 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused more fairly takes into account what happened and how Mr G was 
affected. So I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Monese to increase the level of 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to confirm they accepted the provisional decision. As a result, Im 
going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct PrePay Technologies Limited trading 
as Prepay Solutions to pay Mr G £400 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman