DRN-2221506
The complaint
Ms B had motor insurance policies with Acromas Insurance Company Limited. She 
complains that the premiums it charged her were unreasonably high.  
What happened
Ms Bs policy was renewed in 2017, but after an accident later that year, and a change of 
vehicle in January 2018, the renewal price in 2018 rose sharply. In 2019, the renewal price 
reduced. But as the claim had been settled as non-fault, and Acromas had said Ms Bs no 
claims discount (NCD) had been restored, Ms B thought the premium was still too high. 
She also thought the refund she got should have been higher. 
Ms B said using the same details as hers, her husband got a much cheaper quote for a 
policy with Acromas, and she got a much cheaper quote from another insurer. Ms B thought 
Acromas must have reduced the percentage of the NCD discount in her case without notice.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Bs complaint. She noted that some of the issues Ms B 
had raised were about the service provided by the broker / intermediary that had 
administered the policy. And although Ms B complained to us about the time taken to deal 
with the claim, the investigator said that issue hadnt been raised with Acromas. She thought 
Acromas had given Ms B reasons for the rise in her premiums (including the change of car, 
a change in her occupation and the claim shed made). She said the premiums offered to 
consumers varied based on each consumers characteristics. 
Ms B said not all insurers rate on non-fault claims, and she wasnt told that Acromas would 
do so. She said the investigator hadnt commented on the percentage of the NCD being 
discounted. She pointed out that Mr B had used her details to get the quote. Ms B also said 
part of her complaint was about the service provided by the broker, which the investigator 
hadnt dealt with. 
The investigator said a separate complaint would be set up against the broker, and that it 
wasnt standard practice for an insurer to advise a consumer after an accident that theyd be 
charged more in future, even for a non-fault claim.  She also said that every insurer has its 
own criteria for setting premiums. Ms B responded to say that the investigator seemed to 
have misunderstood two issues. One was that Ms B had been treated unfairly as an existing 
customer, as Mr B got a different quote using her details. The other issue was that another 
insurer offered Ms B a lower quote than Acromas - despite the claim she disclosed to it and 
based on all the same other details (such as Ms Bs credit rating). As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant instruct insurers which factors to consider when they offer quotes for new policies 
or at renewal. And its common for insurers to offer more attractive quotes to prospective 
customers in order to acquire new business. I think that explains why Mr B got a lower quote 
from Acromas, even though he used Ms Bs details.  
The fact that Ms B found a more competitive quote with another insurer isnt surprising, in 
my opinion. Consumers routinely research the market before buying a policy  or prior to 
renewing one  because its often possible to benefit from new customer discounts. And as 
all insurers have different underwriting criteria, they each decide what risks to take on and 
what to charge for them. As Ms B has pointed out, not all insurers charge more if a 
consumer has been involved in a non-fault claim  although most of them do. So I dont think 
the lower quote she found elsewhere is evidence of Acromas acting unreasonably.  
I understand why Ms B thinks it isnt fair for new customers to be offered preferential rates by 
an insurer. But insurers are entitled to make the commercial decisions they think are likely to 
benefit their businesses. Ms B didnt have to stay with Acromas at renewal and may have 
benefitted from new customer discounts elsewhere. It may be that she didnt do that 
because she thought when the claim was settled as non-fault, the premium would reduce 
more than it did.  
It seems Ms B wasnt in direct contact with Acromas during the entire claims process. So if 
shes unhappy that she wasnt told about the likely rise in premium following the claim, I think 
that may be an issue for the broker to address. Ms B has said its communication with her 
was poor in general. 
I think Acromas has explained why Ms Bs premium rose so sharply in 2018. It has given us 
specific details of the percentage rises involved in each major contributing factor. But as 
thats commercially sensitive information, it cant be shared with Ms B. She already knows 
that the change of car in January 2018 led to a substantial rise, largely because Acromas 
was then insuring a much newer car. It would have cost substantially more to repair it (or to 
replace it) if necessary. 
Ms B doesnt think its right that Acromas also took into account that she was less familiar 
with the new car  but it was for Acromas to decide whether it thought that was a risk factor. 
Ms B also changed her occupation around this time. Although she may not agree, Acromas 
thought her new role also posed a higher risk, which it was entitled to do. Added to that, the 
2017 claim was still open, and therefore it impacted on the renewal price.
Ms Bs premium reduced in 2019 for various reasons, including the fact that the new car was 
a year older and the claim was less recent. The claim was settled as non-fault after the 
renewal, so Ms B got a refund of premium - plus a further £102 after she contacted us and 
Acromas rechecked its calculations. The final response letter sent to Ms B by the broker 
appears to show that the broker took responsibility for sending cheques to her without 
explaining what they represented.
Acromas has confirmed that the percentage value of the NCD she received didnt change. 
Ms B believes it did, because she thinks the premium should have been much lower once 
the claim was settled. But theres no evidence of it. In my opinion, Acromas has shown that 
the events that occurred after the renewal in 2017 caused the rise in premium  and that it 
adjusted the figures as appropriate later on. That led to an initial reduction in the premium at 
renewal in 2019, plus refunds when the claim was settled. 
I dont think theres anything to show that Acromas didnt deal with Ms Bs policy fairly. 
Another insurer may have rated the various factors differently, and Ms B may not have paid 
as much as she did had she not renewed the policy with Acromas in 2018 or 2019. But that 
doesnt mean Acromas acted unreasonably. 
  Although I can see why Ms B raised concerns with Acromas, as I dont think theres 
evidence that it did anything substantially wrong, I cant uphold her complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman