DRN-3119758
The complaint
Mrs B says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her when it provided a loan that was 
unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loan to Mrs B:
Date 
takenPrincipal 
AmountScheduled 
TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableDate 
repaid
29.08.2020 £1,000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08 Settled 
early on 
29.03.2021
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view. She mainly said that her bank statement 
showed information that would have led the lender to refuse her application but she wasnt 
asked to provide this or any evidence of her outgoings. 
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Mrs B that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently 
reviewed all the available information, including what Mrs B has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. 
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mrs B complaint. Just to be clear, like our 
adjudicator, Im looking at whether Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the 
available information it has provided from its business file. If Mrs B has reason to think the 
information on the lenders file has been tampered with and its not what she told the lender 
then she would need to make a complaint about that sort of wrongdoing to the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority  it isnt something this Service can help her with. 
When Mrs B applied for this loan, Loans 2 Go asked her for information about her finances 
and carried out a credit check. 
Loans 2 Go checked what shed said about her salary by looking at two months payslips 
and recorded her average monthly income was £1,585.50. It allowed for Mrs B having to pay 
monthly outgoings of £1,289.45. And it also added a 10% buffer to take account of 
fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure. Taking all this into account, these figures 
didnt suggest that Mrs B would have any difficulty meeting the loan repayments for this loan. 
It looked like Mrs B shouldve had ample disposable income to cover the £228.56 instalment 
she had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out showed that Mrs B wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She had no active county 
court judgements registered and no recent defaults on her record. 
I think its fair to say that the information Loans 2 Go had gathered tended to suggest overall 
that Mrs B seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had a serious debt 
problem. Whilst the credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Mrs B had some money 
problems in the past and there was a particular problem with one of her credit card accounts, 
the repayments on all of her other active accounts were up to date. It wouldnt be unusual for 
someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an 
impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I dont 
think the amount of debt shown on Mrs Bs credit checks was excessive having regard to her 
income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out was 
enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more 
before lending or that it ought to have refused this loan application. 
Id expect Loans 2 Go to decide Mrs Bs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time  and I dont think the lending decision Loans 2 Go 
made here was unreasonable. I say this because there wasnt anything obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mrs B wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Loans 2 Go to probe any more 
deeply into Mrs Bs finances or ask Mrs B to prove what she was declaring (by requiring her 
to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify 
what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan. And I've taken into account 
what Mrs B has said about this not being the loan term that she wanted or agreed to. But the 
loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mrs B applied for this 
loan and she had to actively engage in the loan application process. The total amount she was signing up to repay over the contractual loan term, including interest, was set out and 
the agreement showed the number and amount of the payments she would need to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs B was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree at the time. I dont think Loans 2 Go had any reason to 
think that Mrs B wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when 
it had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Mrs B signed the loan 
agreement to confirm she wanted to proceed. 
Im sorry that Mrs B has an ongoing problem with debt. I accept that Mrs Bs actual 
circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Loans 2 Go obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think that Loans 2 Go did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mrs B. And I havent seen enough to make 
me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mrs B in any other way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs B and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman