DRN-4303260
The complaint
Mr D complains that Target Servicing Limited caused unnecessary delays when he wanted 
to redeem his help to buy (HTB) loan.
The HTB scheme
The HTB scheme was a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower took a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required.
HTB shared equity loans are secured by way of a second charge over the property, ranking 
behind the main mortgage.
Mr Ds property was in England, and he took the shared equity loan out with Homes 
England, which was formally known as the Homes and Communities Agency. 
Homes England isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) but it appointed 
Target to administer the loan on its behalf. Target is regulated by the FCA.
The rules which set out the complaints our service can consider are found in the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) section in the FCAs handbook. DISP 2.3 says that our service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on a regulated 
activity.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets out the 
list of regulated activities referred to in DISP. Among the regulated activities listed is debt 
administration and debt collection.
Having considered the activities that Target was carrying out in relation to Mr Ds agreement, 
Im satisfied that the event complained about is an activity that forms part of administering 
the loan or collecting payments, and therefore is a matter we can consider against Target.
What happened
Mr D bought his property in March 2017, borrowing £82,500 through the HTB scheme which 
was 30% of the £275,000 purchase price. 
In 2022, Mr D notified Target of his intention to redeem, and Target told him to obtain a 
valuation to determine the value of the property and therefore the redemption amount. 
After some trouble in finding a surveyor, Mr D obtained a valuation in August 2022. The 
valuation said the property was worth £160,000. It said that the building was affected by 
combustible cladding and this had been taken into account in setting the valuation. 
Mr D provided all the information Target had requested (including the valuation with 
comparables) and Targets notes indicate it submitted it all to Homes England on 30 August.
Over the next month or so Mr D chased things with Target but was told the matter was under 
review and no timescale could be given. 
In October 2022 Mr D raised a complaint. Once eight weeks had passed with no formal 
complaint response having been issued, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
In January 2023 Target told us it was still waiting to hear from Homes England, and then in 
April 2023 Mr D told us hed redeemed the HTB loan based on the £160,000 valuation 
figure, paying back £48,000.
In May 2023 our Investigator said she didnt think Target had treated Mr D fairly. She said 
Mr D had tried to redeem his loan and had met all the requirements to do so, so it wasnt fair 
Target hadnt allowed him to redeem. She said Target should refund the interest and 
management fees that Mr D had paid from October 2022 (plus 8% simple interest). She also 
said Target should refund any second valuation fee Mr D had paid due to the delay, and also 
pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay and poor communication.
Mr D accepted our Investigators findings, including the redress she set out.  Target 
acknowledged receipt of our Investigators opinion and said it needed to seek guidance from 
Homes England on how it wished to proceed. Despite chasers from our Investigator no 
detailed response was received from Target. In the absence of a response from Target the 
case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
As Ive explained in administering the loan on behalf of Homes England, Target is carrying 
out the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection. In carrying out the 
regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the lenders 
rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the lender is 
entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to do, and 
only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And as a 
regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr D is entitled to redeem the loan at any time, either 
by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as from savings, or by taking 
further borrowing on the main mortgage). The amount required to redeem the loan is the 
same proportion of the propertys value as originally borrowed  30% in this case  as 
determined by an independent valuation.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in setting the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
In this case, Mr D followed the appropriate process for redeeming this loan, by notifying Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an independent valuation of the property. 
He then sent the valuation to Target.
The valuation said that the propertys building was affected by cladding and the valuer took 
that into account in determining the valuation.
Target said the request was under review with Homes England and that no timescales could 
be given for that. But the terms and conditions of the loan agreement are clear. They say 
that a redemption request has to be followed by a valuation. The valuation is carried out by a 
valuer agreed between the parties, and their valuation is final. Theres no provision for a 
valuation to be reviewed or challenged, or a redemption refused or delayed, following a 
properly completed valuation.
I think that Mr D did everything necessary to comply with his contractual obligations 
regarding the redemption of the loan. Target told him to appoint his own surveyor and he did 
so. That meant that surveyors valuation was final and binding. Target raised concerns 
because there had been a drop in the value of the property, so they referred this to Homes 
England. But there is nothing in the terms and conditions that states this should happen.
It would have been open to Homes England to include a review mechanism in the terms and 
conditions had it wanted to do so  but there is no such mechanism. And in my view there 
are no grounds for Target, acting fairly and reasonably in its regulatory obligation to comply 
with the lenders contractual duties, to have delayed collecting the redemption payment from 
Mr D so that he could redeem his loan.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr D had the funds available to redeem his 
loan at the time, and so it follows from that that had Target, acting fairly and reasonably, 
collected the redemption payment from Mr D and allowed him to redeem his loan, it would 
likely have been paid off by the end of September 2022.
Putting things right
In the absence of any arguments to the contrary from Target, Im awarding redress on the 
same basis our Investigator set out. That is on the assumption that if the redemption had 
proceeded correctly from the valuation in August 2022, the redemption of the loan was likely 
to have happened by the end of September 2022. 
That means its not fair that Mr D should pay any interest or management fees since then. 
So Target should refund all interest and management fees paid from October 2022 until the 
date the loan was redeemed, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date 
each payment was made to the date it is refunded.
It isnt clear if an additional valuation fee was incurred by Mr D (after the one he paid for the 
August 2022 valuation). If it was Target should refund that amount to Mr D, plus simple 
annual interest of 8%* from the date the valuation fee was paid to the date it is refunded.
The impact of the delay in not being able to redeem the loan and the poor communication 
from Target caused distress and inconvenience to Mr D over a number of months. It must 
have been incredibly frustrating for him. I do need to take into account that the loan is now 
redeemed, so the matter is resolved and this isnt still an ongoing problem. Having 
considered everything very carefully I agree with our Investigator that a payment of £300 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited as follows:
Target should refund all interest and management fees paid by Mr D from 1 October 
2022 to the date of redemption, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the 
date each payment was made to the date it is refunded.
If an additional valuation fee was incurred by Mr D Target should refund that amount to 
him, plus simple annual interest of 8%* from the date the valuation fee was paid to the 
date it is refunded.
Target should pay Mr D £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman