DRN-2869429
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that Hyundai Capital UK Limited wont allow him to hand a car back he 
acquired under a conditional sale agreement. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai to acquire a 
car. He bought the car online. A couple of days later he changed his mind as he said he was 
concerned about the impact Covid-19 was going to have on his work. So he contacted the 
supplying dealership and said he wanted to hand the car back. But the dealership said he 
couldnt. 
He subsequently contacted Hyundai who said the same  that he couldnt hand the car back. 
Mr M didnt agree with this and said The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR) entitled him to be allowed to return the car as 
it was a distance sale. Hyundai didnt agree with this as it said the CCR doesnt apply where 
a car is acquired on credit. So he raised a complaint. One of Hyundais managers spoke to 
Mr M and initially agreed with Mr M that he could hand the car back. So he said he would 
unwind Mr Ms agreement. However, Hyundai later contacted Mr M again and said hed 
been given incorrect information and reiterated the CCR doesnt apply in his case. And it 
maintained he couldnt hand the car back.
Mr M also set out that he didnt think the car was as described or of satisfactory quality for 
the following reasons:
The car didnt come with the virtual engine sound system (VESS) that was on the car he 
test drove;
He had only been supplied with one key; and
There was an outstanding recall notice on the car.
Hyundai acknowledged the manager had told Mr M that he could hand the car back, but it 
said that was wrong advice. It accepted this would have caused him some upset so it offered 
him £50 in compensation. But it didnt uphold his complaint regarding the quality of the car. It 
said the car was a new car and didnt come with the VESS and wasnt advertised as having 
one. It said the recall notice was due to a change in legislation, not because there was a 
fault with the car. Finally it said the second key was on order.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the CCR specifically sets out that they 
dont apply where cars are bought on credit. So he didnt think Hyundai had acted unfairly in 
saying Mr M wasnt able to hand the car back. He also thought the £50 Hyundai had offered 
in compensation was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He maintained the CCR said Hyundai 
should have allowed him to cancel the agreement and hand the car back. He also didnt 
think the investigator had taken into account the significant impact this had had on him.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
Firstly, I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ms complaint in less detail than he has done so. I 
dont mean any discourtesy by this and I assure him Ive read and considered everything 
hes provided. But this simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this decision, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key complaint points.
Mr M is unhappy Hyundai didnt let him hand the car back when hed changed his mind. He 
thinks it should have allowed him to do so for two reasons  the CCR allowed him to do so 
and also because he didnt think it was as described.
I can see that this matter has had a significant impact on Mr M. I naturally sympathise with 
the situation he found himself in. However, I agree with the investigator and Hyundai that the 
CCR doesnt apply in this case. I do not disagree with Mr M that its likely this would be 
considered a distance sale. He bought the car online and didnt see it beforehand. So, 
ordinarily, the CCR would apply in these circumstances and give Mr M a right to hand the 
goods back within a period of time without charge or penalty.
However, S6(1)(b) of the CCR says:
These Regulations do not apply to a contract, to the extent that it is for services of a 
banking, credit, insurance, personal pension, investment or payment nature.
Mr M acquired the car through a conditional sale agreement. So the contract he was looking 
to end was a regulated credit agreement. And the CCR specifically sets out that the 
regulations dont apply to credit agreements. The Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the finance 
agreement gave Mr M the right to withdraw from the finance agreement within the first 14 
days. But this doesnt give a right to hand the car back. Mr M would have needed to repay 
the full amount outstanding on the finance. But the car would have remained his property.
So, while I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling in this matter, I cant say Hyundai treated 
him unfairly in saying he didnt have the right to hand the car back under the CCR.
Ive also considered Mr Ms comment that he should have been allowed to reject the car 
because it didnt have the VESS installed and that it also had a recall notice. As I said, Mr M 
acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the agreement that  among other things 
the car must be as described and be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance 
provider, Hyundai is responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  
Hyundai has explained that the model of car Mr M acquired didnt come with the VESS 
installed. Mr M has said he test drove a version of the car before he acquired this car which 
did have the VESS. But its common for cars to have different levels of specifications. So, 
just because the car he test drove had the VESS, doesnt mean it would automatically follow 
that the car he acquired would do so. Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show he was told 
the car he acquired did come with the VESS. So I cant say it wasnt as described.Theres no dispute the car had a recall notice on it. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this means the car had a fault. Manufacturers will put recall notices on a car for a variety of 
reasons. Often it could mean that theres a small chance of something going wrong so the 
manufacturer will take preventative measures to ensure that doesnt happen. Alternatively 
there might have been a change in legislation  which I understand was the case in this 
instance  which requires the manufacturer to make a change. For me to say the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality, I need to be satisfied that there was a fault with it that was present or 
developing at the point of supply and that fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality. I 
havent seen anything to show that there was a fault, so it follows that I dont think it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Finally Ive considered Mr Ms complaint about the way Hyundai has handled his complaint. 
He has set out the impact this has had on him. I appreciate this has been a very difficult time 
for him and I naturally sympathise with his situation. But it seems to me that the majority of 
this distress arises from the fact Hyundai wouldnt let him hand the car back. And, as I said, 
it didnt treat him unfairly in this respect.
I can see Mr M called Hyundai a significant number of times looking for updates on his 
complaint. Hyundai did explain that it had eight weeks to investigate a complaint and this is 
correct and in line with the regulators timeframes for handling a complaint. And it did say it 
would update him when it was in a position to do so. I appreciate Mr M was frustrated with 
the information he was being given and the time the matter was taking. But I cant say 
Hyundai treated him unfairly in this respect.
However, Hyundai did incorrectly say at one point that he could hand the car back. Clearly, 
this raised his expectations that hed get the car back. And naturally this would have added 
to the distress once Hyundai corrected its mistake. But I can see Hyundai corrected this 
mistake within a week and offered him £50 in compensation. I think it took fair steps to put 
things right and I think the compensation its offered is in line with what I would have 
awarded. So I dont think it needs to offer anything further for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that Hyundai Capital UK Limiteds 
compensation offer of £50 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused him. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman