DRN-2498111
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited held him fully liable for an incident 
after a claim was made on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants it to reconsider 
its decision and the investigation. 
What happened
Mr K was reversing into a parking bay when he came into contact with another car. The 
other driver said shed been stationary. Admiral investigated the claim and initially thought it 
may settle the case as split liability. But it later held Mr K fully liable for the accident. Mr K 
was unhappy as Admiral had delayed obtaining CCTV evidence that may have shown what 
happened. Admiral apologised for this, but it thought the other drivers version of events was 
more plausible. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
could have acted sooner to obtain the CCTV footage. But he thought its apology and offer of 
compensation for this was fair and reasonable. He thought Admiral had reasonably 
investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before making its decision to 
hold Mr K fully liable. 
Mr K replied that the other car wasnt present when he started reversing and he didnt think it 
had been stationary. He thought the CCTV footage would have proved his case. He 
questioned why Admiral had changed from its stance of split liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr K the same as someone else in his 
position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr K to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. This is explained on page 25 of the policy booklet under 
General Conditions. Mr K has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of his 
claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance 
policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about 
whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
I can see that Admiral had to consider the two drivers versions of events and the damage 
caused to their cars. Mr K said he was reversing, didnt see the other car and then heard a 
bang. The other driver said she was stationary, and Mr K had reversed into her car.
Mr K told Admiral that there was CCTV evidence available, but Admiral didnt obtain this 
before it was deleted. But theres no certainty that this would have captured the actual event, 
so I cant say that this prejudiced Mr Ks position. 
Mr K also said his reversing sensor was on and didnt alert him to the other car. I cant say 
why this happened. But theres no independent evidence to confirm this, so I dont think this 
is something Admiral should consider. 
Admiral initially told Mr K that it thought the claim should be settled as split liability, unless 
further evidence was provided. It later said that it thought the other drivers version of events 
was more plausible and supported by the damage to Mr Ks car. This was to the rear side 
corner of his car. And it thought this wouldnt have been caused if Mr K was three quarters of 
the way into a parking space, as he claimed. 
Mr K said hed been looking at the passenger side mirror and Admiral thought he may not 
have seen the other car. And, as the onus was on Mr K as the reversing party to take more 
care, it said it was accepting liability on his behalf.  
I think Admiral reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making its decision. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So 
I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman