DRN-2863098
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited (CS) wont pay for further CT
scans on her personal private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs G holds a Your Choice private medical insurance policy, which includes Heart and
Cancer Comprehensive cover.
In January 2015, Mrs G was unfortunately diagnosed with cancer. Her treatment has been
covered by CS since that time. Mrs G is prescribed a drug by her oncologist. Every three
months, Mrs G undergoes a CT scan to monitor her illness and to allow the oncologist to
continue to prescribe the drug.
The policy only covers the monitoring of cancer for five years after diagnosis. So in 2019,
Mrs G twice got in touch with CS to check whether her CT scans would continue to be
covered, given her oncologist wouldnt be able to prescribe the drug without them. Mrs G
was told that she would be covered. However, in January 2020, CS told Mrs G that while her
drug therapy (and other treatment costs) would continue to be covered, her scans would
now fall outside of the policy five-year monitoring period and would no longer be paid. As it
had already authorised a scan for March 2020 though, it agreed to honour payment on that
occasion.
Mrs G was very unhappy with CS decision as she said she couldnt be prescribed or treated
with the drug without the CT scans. Her oncologist also confirmed this in writing. She asked
us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. While she accepted that
the CT scans were medically necessary for Mrs G, she thought they werent covered by the
policy terms. So she didnt think CS needed to provide cover for any CT scans after March
2020.
Mrs G disagreed. She said the key issue was that CS couldnt fulfil its obligation to cover the
costs of her treatment if it didnt cover the costs of the CT scans. She felt they were integral
to the prescription of the drug which was keeping her alive. She felt that given Covid-19,
there were now more reasons for her to remain under the care of her oncologist, given hes
aware of the specific risks to her.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 April 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think CS had treated Mrs G fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive taken into account, amongst other
things, the terms of Mrs Gs policy and the available evidence in deciding whether CS
handled the claim reasonably.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy, as these form the contract
between her and CS. Ive set out below what I consider to be the key terms, which can be
found in the Heart and Cancer Cover section of the policy.
Monitoring
You are covered for:
Supervision and monitoring of your treatment while receiving active care such as drug
therapy or radiotherapy during primary or secondary care of your condition.
Necessary aftercare per condition, including consultations for up to 5 years, following the
initial diagnosis of your condition.
Drug therapy
You are covered for:
Home care or hospital care from a provider chosen from your hospital list and for the delivery
of drug therapy to treat and control or maintain your disease and related symptoms.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Gs cancer was diagnosed in January 2015 and that therefore,
CS considers shes now outside of the 5-year monitoring cover it says the policy provides.
Its also clear that CS has continued to cover Mrs Gs drug therapy and her consultations
with her oncologist. Ive seen a copy of the oncologists letter to CS of May 2020 which
explains why Mrs G needs regular CT scans in order for him to be in a position to continue to
prescribe the drug.
Im satisfied then that given CS continues to fund Mrs Gs drug prescription; it accepts
theres a clinical need for her to have it. So Ive considered whether or not the CT scans -
which all parties agree are medically necessary - are now outside of cover.
The policy clearly states that supervision and monitoring of a policyholders treatment while
theyre receiving active care, such as drug therapy, during primary or secondary care of a
condition, are covered.
In my view, the continued treatment of Mrs Gs illness with the drug falls squarely within the
scope of the supervision and monitoring cover. She continues to receive drug therapy which
her oncologist clearly states controls her condition. Indeed, CS own wording specifically
refers to drug therapy as something it considers to be active care. If CS accepts that Mrs
Gs drug therapy is covered, then it seems to me that shes also receiving active care. And if
thats the case, it doesnt seem to me, given the clear separation of clauses in the policy
booklet, that the 5-year monitoring limit applies to the circumstances of Mrs Gs claim.
Even if CS intended this separately laid out monitoring time limit to apply to cases of active
care, I dont think the policy makes this clear enough. I think theres ambiguity in the policy
wording. Id add that given two of CS advisers also interpreted the cover in this way (and CS
has acknowledged its now provided clarity around the meaning of the policy wording), it
seems to me that CS accepts there could be ambiguity in the interpretation of policy cover.
Where there is ambiguity in the terms of a contract, the legal position is that the terms should
be construed in favour of the party which didnt draft the contract. In this case, thats Mrs G.
Overall, given Mrs Gs continued drug therapy is dependent on her undergoing CT scanning
and Im currently persuaded that this should be treated as active care, I presently think that
her complaint should be upheld. So Im currently planning to tell CS to settle Mrs Gs claims
for the CT scans shes had from January 2020 and continue to provide cover for them ateach renewal if the policy terms remain the same, assuming that her policy terms remained
the same at her last renewal. Its open to CS to provide me with the 2021-22 policy terms if
they differ in monitoring cover or the way its set out.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Mrs G accepted my provisional decision.
CS disagreed and Ive summarised its response. It acknowledged my interpretation of the 
policy terms, but it felt I hadnt taken into account the vital surrounding policy wording. In 
particular, it referred to this term:
You are covered for consultations and tests during a period of active care and for up to 5 
years from the diagnosis of your condition.
CS considers that the above wording clearly indicates by use of the word and that the five-
year limit is an additional term, which indicates that regardless of whether a policyholders 
having active care, monitoring is limited to five years. 
It says it continues to cover Mrs Gs other treatment because its covered by another section 
of the policy. It considers her treatment falls within the definition of drug therapy. It also 
doesnt feel its fair for me to base my decision as to the clarity of the policy wording on the 
isolated conversations Mrs G had with its advisers. It also believes the decision is 
inconsistent with other opinions that have been issued by this service regarding the same 
policy wording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think CS has treated Mrs G fairly and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure CS that Ive carefully reconsidered its full policy terms.  But I still dont 
think the policy wording makes it clear that CS intends to limit all monitoring cover to a five-
year period, regardless of whether a policyholder is still undergoing active care.
For clarity, Ill re-state the full applicable policy terms relating to Monitoring.
You are covered for
Supervision and monitoring of your treatment while receiving active care, such as drug 
therapy or radiotherapy during primary or secondary care of your condition.
Notes
You are covered for consultations or tests during a period of active care and for up to 5 
years from the diagnosis of your condition and according to medical need including care of 
secondary conditions. 
In my view, the policy clearly states that supervision and monitoring is covered while a 
policyholder is undergoing active care. Neither party disputes that Mrs G continues to 
undergo drug therapy, which CS covers separately under the Drug Therapy section of the 
policy. But it remains the case that Mrs Gs treatment falls within the scope of the examples CS has given of what it considers to be active care within the monitoring section of the 
policy. So it seems clear to me that Mrs Gs scans should continue to be covered under the 
monitoring cover the policy provides.
Ive taken into account the qualification given in the notes part of the Monitoring section of 
the policy which CS has referred to. This is broken down into separate clauses  that a 
policyholder is covered for consultations or tests during a period of active care and for up to 
five years from diagnosis and according to medical need. I dont think this clause makes it 
clear that supervision and monitoring is only covered for a five-year period, regardless of 
whether a policyholders undergoing active care. I think the term instead indicates that these 
clauses should be read independently of one another. On such a reading, Mrs Gs scans 
and monitoring would be covered while she continues to receive active treatment. Whilst I 
accept that this may not have been CS intention, it isnt at all clear from this term that a five-
year time limit applies to all sections of the monitoring cover. On this basis, Im still satisfied 
that the policy wording is ambiguous and should therefore be interpreted in Mrs Gs favour. 
CS suggests that my decision on the clarity of the policy shouldnt take into account the 
isolated conversations Mrs G had with its advisers. Ive simply borne in mind, when 
considering the complaint as a whole, how clear and understandable the policy terms are. 
And given it appears two of CS staff also interpreted the terms in the way I have done does 
indicate that there is ambiguity in the way the contract is drafted.
Overall, Im satisfied that policy is unclear as to the five-year time limit on monitoring whilst in 
receipt of active care and that the contract instead reads as if Mrs Gs claim is covered, 
regardless of CS intentions on this point. So this means that Ive decided CS must settle CS 
Mrs Gs claims for the CT scans shes had from January 2020 and continue to provide cover 
for them at each renewal if the policy terms remain the same, assuming that her policy terms 
remained the same at her last renewal. CS hasnt provided me with a further policy 
document which indicates that the policy wording did change at the last renewal.
Id like to reassure CS that Ive carefully considered the earlier opinions its referred to. But 
each case turns on its own specific facts. The facts in those cases are different to the facts 
of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited to settle Mrs Gs claims for any CT
scans shes had from January 2020 and then continue to cover her for these scans at each
renewal if the policy terms remain the same. This award is subject to Mrs G providing CS
with evidence of the scan costs shes incurred and also subject to any applicable policy limits
on what CS will pay for such scans. CS must add interest of 8% simple per year on
any amounts Mrs G has already paid, from the date she incurred the costs until the date of
settlement.  
*If CS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman