DRN-4089525
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have been unable to recall an international transfer 
for him.
What happened
Mr P attempted to make an international transfer to an overseas account, but he didnt 
realise he made an error with the beneficiaries account number. The beneficiary asked him 
to make the transfer again which Mr P did. He contacted HSBC to speak about the 
whereabouts of the original transfer. He says they told him the money was being held in an 
account overseas and it would be returned to his account in due course, and they charged 
him £25 administration fee for this, but they sent the funds to the destination country instead, 
even though they knew the account details didnt match. Mr P made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC said they sent several requests and chasers to recall the funds and they did not 
receive a response from the beneficiary bank until 5 January 2022, who said they were 
seeking authority from the beneficiary to return the funds. HSBC said that despite sending 
multiple chasers asking for updates, they did not receive any further communication from 
them until 16 March 2022, where they confirmed that the beneficiary had not responded to 
provide debit authority to return the funds and they confirmed that they would be unable to 
assist further and that he should take this matter up with the beneficiary directly. HSBC said 
they hadnt been able to locate any calls that Mr P made to them around the time, but if he 
was told incorrect information about the recall process, then this would not have had an 
impact on the outcome of the recall request. Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. He said once a payment has been made 
a recall is the only option. He said HSBC made several recall attempts to claw these funds 
back but have been unsuccessful. The recipient bank advise they were able to locate the 
correct account (despite the initial error) and confirm that the funds were successfully 
credited. But theyve been unable to obtain debit authority from the beneficiary to return the 
payment. He said Mr P made a second payment using the correct details shortly after the 
first payment, so in effect, the beneficiary has been paid twice. He said as the recipient bank 
needed the relevant authority to debit the beneficiary account then he couldnt reasonably 
hold HSBC responsible for this nor could he ask them to cover Mr Ps losses. He said HSBC 
should pay Mr P £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience and refund the £25 recall 
fee and pay 8% simple interest on top of this. HSBC disagreed with paying interest on top of 
the fee, but they said they would be happy to pay Mr P £200 compensation.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. He 
said when the initial payment had been made, the intended beneficiary of the money said 
they hadnt received the funds which he believes this was either 5 or 6 August 2021. Mr P 
says he contacted HSBC to find out where the money was, and he was told this was in a 
holding bank in a European country and that if he waited, the funds would be returned to 
him, but it might take a week or so. So Mr P made another payment to the beneficiary 
through HSBC with the correct details. He says he was offered the chance to recall the funds 
at a cost of £25, which he eventually did after the funds didnt automatically return to him. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mr P that I can only look into the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
not any other banks that were involved here. This is because the complaint is brought 
against them solely, so I can only look into their actions.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said about his phone call on either 5 or 6 August. 
Unfortunately HSBC have told me they have no call recording of this call or any notes to 
support what Mr P has said here. So Im unable to rely on this here. Mr Ps funds were 
routed through a bank in the European country that he was told held his funds. So its 
possible that the call handler told him they were at this country at this time. 
When the funds are sent by HSBC, they would have no sight or control over what happened 
to the funds unless either the beneficiary bank or Mr P made them aware of any issues. 
HSBC would then get in contact with the bank who received the funds initially, which in this 
case was located in a European country, who would then make enquiries with the recipient 
bank. So the call handler would not be able to confirm at any time whether the recipient bank 
had received the funds or not without sending a message to the bank they initially sent the 
funds to  which I will refer to as the intermediary bank here. 
Mr P says that the intended beneficiary of the funds told him on either 5 or 6 August 2021 
that they hadnt received the funds. Ive looked at his terms and conditions of his business 
account (which his bank statement shows is open in his name only) to see what they say 
about how long it would take international funds to reach the recipient bank. For the 
international payment type that Mr P made, the terms show that the time to reach the 
recipients bank is Usually up to four working days but it may take longer depending on the 
country the money is being sent to. So at the time the recipient said that the funds werent 
received/he rang HSBC, its possible that the funds could have still been on route to the 
destination.
The terms also show that You cant cancel or change a payment youve asked us to make 
immediately. So as Mr P contacted HSBC after the payment had been made, he was 
unable to cancel the payment or change the account number to the correct account number.
Ive had a look at all of the evidence to try and look at the timeline of what happened on the 
balance of probability here. Its possible that the recipient hadnt received the funds at the 
time they told Mr P they hadnt received them. So I asked HSBC to contact the intermediary 
bank, who then contacted the recipient bank to find out when the funds reached them. And 
although it can take up to four working days (or possibly longer) for the recipient to receive 
the funds), the recipient bank have told HSBC that the funds were processed by the recipient 
bank on 5 August 2021.  
So it may have been a situation where the recipient told Mr P that they hadnt received the 
funds and asked Mr P to send the funds again. But the funds could have later credited the 
beneficiary account later on that day. But instead, the beneficiary didnt tell Mr P this. And its 
unlikely they ever told Mr P this as he made a second payment on 11 August 2021, with the 
correct details.
Ive considered what Mr P said about the call handler telling him that the funds would be 
returned due to the wrong account number. As Ive previously mentioned, I cant listen to 
exactly what was said here and how things were positioned, or if the call handler told him other things that could happen with the funds. It is possible that due to an incorrect account 
number being entered, that this can often lead to the funds being returned. But in this 
instance, the evidence shows that what appears to have happened is that the recipient bank 
was able to locate the correct account, based on the other details provided as part of the 
transaction and they credited the funds to the recipients bank account. So Im unable to hold 
HSBC UK responsible for actions that the recipient bank took here. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account again regarding If something goes 
wrong with a payment. They state that If you give us incorrect instructions, for example the 
wrong account number or sort code, we wont be responsible for any loss or delay you 
suffer. Mr P gave the wrong account number, so HSBC wouldnt be responsible for any loss 
or delay that he suffers. The terms go on to say that You should contact us as soon as 
possible. Well try to help you get the money back but may not always be successful. We 
may charge you for our reasonable costs in trying to do so. Well tell you at the time how 
much this will be. 
So HSBC do not guarantee that Mr P would be successful in getting the money back and 
that there would be reasonable costs in trying to get his money back. This is why there was 
a £25 fee in place for HSBC to initiate a recall of the funds. So Ive looked into whether 
HSBC have tried to recall his funds. Im satisfied that they tried, and Ill explain why.
It appears that Mr P agreed to pay the recall fee and initiate the recall process on 9 
September 2021. I can see that the cancellation request (the recall) was started on their 
system on this date. They then sent the intermediary bank a message on 13 September 
2021 to urgently cancel and refund the payment. They received acknowledgement of the 
request on 17 September and the intermediary bank said they contacted the recipient bank 
(via a message) and they would get back to HSBC when they had a response. HSBC then 
chased this again on 24 September and again on 28 September. HSBC received a response 
on 4 October 2021 from the intermediary bank, again explaining that they had messaged the 
recipient bank and they would get back to HSBC when they had a response. 
HSBC sent another chaser message to the intermediary bank on 6 November 2021, which 
was acknowledged again on 16 November 2021. It was only on 5 January 2022 that the 
intermediary bank let HSBC know they had a response from the recipient bank. The 
recipient bank said that they were contacting the beneficiary for debit authority to refund the 
money. And upon receipt of the funds (from the beneficiary), they would refund the money 
(less charges) accordingly. They said there would be no further response from them if the 
beneficiary did not respond to the request within 14 days. This was chased up by HSBC on 
24 January 2022 and they had a response on 31 January 2022 that the debit authority was 
still being sought from the beneficiary. 
HSBC continued to chase this up on 9/17/18 February and 11 March 2022 without response. 
It was only on 16 March 2022 that the intermediary bank passed on the message from the 
recipient bank, that they had written to the beneficiary several times to gain debit authority, 
but they had no response from the beneficiary, and they advised the remitter (Mr P) to 
contact the beneficiary directly. So HSBC did chase up the recall on a number of occasions 
across a number of months, but unfortunately they either didnt receive a response, or they 
were told debit authority was being sought. So Im satisfied that HSBC were entitled to 
charge Mr P the £25 recall fee, even though they were unable to successfully get his money 
back. They set out in their terms and conditions that this may not be successful but there 
would be a fee to cover their costs. So I wont be asking HSBC to refund this fee.
I am satisfied that the payment made on 4 August 2021 reached the intended account and 
the beneficiary received this money. I say this because the recipient bank wouldnt have 
written to the recipient several times to debit the account if the funds hadnt credited the account. Mr P may want to follow this up with the beneficiary directly to obtain his funds. 
Ultimately, HSBC sent the funds as instructed and as per their terms and conditions, they 
cant be held liable if there is incorrect information given with an account number  albeit on 
this occasion, the recipient bank did credit the funds to the correct account. So while I have a 
lot of sympathy for the position Mr P has found himself in, Im persuaded this would be a civil 
matter for Mr P to take up with the beneficiary as they are the ones which have not 
responded to the recipient banks request to refund the money.
But I do think that HSBC have let Mr P down on occasion here. I say this because it appears 
that he was told the payment would automatically bounce back. And while this may happen, 
it didnt happen here. And while HSBC would not be responsible for the recipient banks 
actions, they should have explained to Mr P the different scenarios of what could have 
happened, or at least reiterate to him what their terms say about incorrect payments. In 
addition, HSBC received a message on 16 March 2022 that the recall was unsuccessful and 
to advise Mr P to contact the beneficiary. But HSBC didnt inform Mr P of this. It was only on 
6 April 2022 when Mr P called HSBC for an update that they informed him of this. So Mr P 
was inconvenienced for having to chase them up and it would have been distressing to find 
out that the funds werent being automatically returned to him.
Our investigator suggested that £75 compensation, and a refund of the £25 (plus 8% simple 
interest) would be fair. But Im not persuaded that this is sufficient for what happened. I dont 
agree that HSBC should refund the £25 fee (and therefore also not pay 8% simple interest 
on this fee), as they provided a service that they carried out for the fee, albeit this was 
unsuccessful. But Im persuaded that £200 compensation is reasonable for what happened 
for not updating Mr P with the outcome of the recall request and the expectations they had 
set. So it follows I intend to ask HSBC to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted the provisional decision. Mr P did not accept the provisional 
decision. Ive listened to a phone call he had with our investigator where he made a number 
of points. 
In summary, Mr P said he wouldnt have made a second payment if HSBC hadnt 
categorically confirmed to him that the original payment would be returned. He said they 
assured him that if he paid the £25 fee, they would be able to recall the money back. Mr P 
said he spoke to the intended beneficiary and they still say they have not received the 
original funds. He said he had made the same payment months earlier which contained the 
same incorrect account number and the payment went straight through and nobody 
mentioned a missing account number.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about HSBC categorically confirming that the original 
payment would be returned and he wouldnt have made a second payment if they hadnt told 
him this. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, there is no call recording of this call and 
there are no notes to support what Mr P says he was told. So I cant evidence what exactly 
Mr P was told. 
The evidence shows that the funds were credited by the recipient bank on 5 August 2021. 
So as Mr P says he rang HSBC on 5 or 6 August 2021, the funds may have already credited 
the recipients account by the time he rang HSBC. As I said in my provisional decision, 
When the funds are sent by HSBC, they would have no sight or control over what happened to the funds. So they would not be aware that the funds had been credited to the account. 
Mr P says that he only sent the funds again because HSBC told him the funds would be 
returned to him. As I mentioned in my provisional decision It is possible that due to an 
incorrect account number being entered, that this can often lead to the funds being returned 
so this would be a possibility. But here, it was the actions of the recipient bank  not HSBC 
UK  who credited the funds to the intended account even though the sent funds did not 
display the correct account number. And so I cant hold HSBC responsible for the recipient 
banks actions when they would have no control of the payment once it has been sent. 
Ive also considered what Mr P was told about the £25 fee to attempt to recall the funds. As I 
said in my provisional decision HSBCs terms do show that Well try to help you get the 
money back but may not always be successful. We may charge you for our reasonable costs 
in trying to do so. Well tell you at the time how much this will be. So HSBC do not 
guarantee that Mr P would be successful in getting the money back and that there would be 
reasonable costs in trying to get his money back. This is why there was a £25 fee in place 
for HSBC to initiate a recall of the funds. I documented their reasonable attempts to recall 
these funds, but ultimately the third party company he sent the money to didnt respond to 
their own banks request to refund the money. 
There is no record that HSBC told Mr P to send the second payment. Mr P chose to send 
the second payment even though he hadnt received the first payment back yet. And based 
on what he has told us about a previous payment he had made to the beneficiary, he would 
have been aware at the point that he sent the second payment that a previous payment he 
made months earlier  which had the same incorrect account number  did reach the third 
party. So he ought to have been reasonably aware that regardless of what HSBC did or 
didnt tell him, that this payment could also reach the recipients account, like it did when a 
previous payment with the same incorrect details was successful. And therefore Im 
persuaded it would have been proportionate for him to wait for the funds to be credited back 
to his account before initiating the second payment (although in this instance the second 
payment wouldnt have been necessary as the evidence shows the funds credited the 
beneficiarys account on 5 August 2021.
The recipient bank have provided the reference number for the credit into the recipients 
account. Our investigator has sent this reference number to Mr P so he can follow this up 
with the third party company, who can investigate with their own bank. In my provisional 
decision I also said that the recipient bank wouldnt have written to the recipient several 
times to debit the account if the funds hadnt credited the account. So again, Im satisfied 
that the funds did credit the account, despite what they have said to Mr P. 
In summary, Mr Ps response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr P £200 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is 
a fair outcome for the reasons given previously. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr P £200 for distress and 
inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman