DRN-2321186
Complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside an Egg branded credit card. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to Barclays throughout my decision.
Background
Mrs S bought the policy in April 2000. It cost 59p per £100 of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly 
statement balance. And if Mrs S was too unwell to work or made involuntarily redundant, the 
policy would have paid off 10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to let Mrs S know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent before 
adding PPI to her account.
Mrs S says the policy was sold during a meeting and she was told she had to take PPI in 
order to get the card. But Barclays says Mrs S completed an internet application form that 
made it clear the policy was optional and that she chose to take it at the time.
Barclays has provided information that shows the application was completed on the internet. 
It also provided copies of the internet pages it says are similar to the ones Mrs S would have 
seen when she applied for her card online. Looking at this, theres an explanation of what 
PPI is and two separate statements that give the customer options  Yes to protect 
repayments and No to decline the cover. Barclays computer records of Mrs Ss application 
show she selected the Yes option during her application. So, I think its more likely than not 
that Mrs S would have been aware she had a choice and that she chose to take PPI.
Mrs S says that Barclays gave her advice about whether to have the policy and Barclays 
says it would not have. Ive thought about what Mrs S has said, but I think its unlikely 
Barclays gave her personal advice, because it was an internet application and Mrs S isnt 
likely to have needed to speak to Barclays in order to complete it. I also havent seen 
anything on the internet pages provided to suggest advice was given, so Ive considered the 
case on the basis that Barclays did not give Mrs S any advice. That means Barclays didnt 
have to check the policy was right for Mrs S, but it did need to give her enough information 
about the policy, so she could decide whether to take it or not.
From the information Ive seen, Mrs S was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the main things that might have made it harder for her to claim 
on the policy, for example, unusual employment circumstances or pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Mrs S says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. She says she had savings and a car that she could 
have sold. She also says she had life and critical Illness cover and that her partner could 
have helped her if necessary. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs S has said, but I think the policy could have been 
useful to her. The policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs S got from her 
employer and she could have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. The 
PPI would have left her savings available for other things and I think Mrs S would likely have 
wanted to avoid selling her car if she could.
Life and critical illness cover provide different types of protection from PPI. And while I dont 
doubt that Mrs Ss partner may have wanted to help, circumstances could change, which 
means help from her partner could not always be relied on. So, I think the policy could have 
been useful to her if she fell on hard times. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs S 
could not afford the policy.
The terms and cost of the policy werent explained as clearly as they should have been. But 
for the same reasons I think the policy could have been useful to Mrs S, I dont think this 
would have made a difference to her decision to take the policy. 
So, I dont think Mrs Ss PPI policy was mis-sold and Barclays doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint because the PPI policy 
wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs S. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman