DRN-3028995
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 1998. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ill explain why. 
The credit card and PPI were sold during a meeting. BoS has provided a copy of the 
application form that was completed at the time of sale. Within this application form I can 
see there is a separate section for PPI and the applicant has to tick and sign a separate 
box if they would like Credit Card Repayment Cover. On Mrs Hs form a tick has been 
placed in the relevant box and the form has been signed. I dont know what was 
discussed at the time Mrs H took out the card, but I wouldve expected the discussions to 
reflect the application form. I also think Mrs H wouldve had an opportunity to read over 
the form and to raise any questions she had at the time before signing it. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs H knew the policy was optional 
and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
The evidence about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs H was eligible for the cover and although 
she says she had employee benefits which provided sick pay and redundancy pay, she 
still seems to have had a need for cover. I say this because the PPI wouldve paid out for 
longer than her employee benefits. It also wouldve paid out alongside these benefits. 
There was nothing about Mrs Hs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs H also hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. I can see Mrs H has referred to being 
pregnant at the time of sale. Ive thought about this aspect of her circumstances and I 
dont think this made the PPI wrong for Mrs H. As explained by the adjudicator, although 
the normal symptoms of pregnancy may not have been covered for Mrs H, she still 
would have been able to use the policy for other sickness and unemployment. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems within 
the policy.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs H as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs H 
would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman