DRN-2214813
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs R complain about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) administered a claim 
Mr R made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs R have travel insurance as a benefit of their joint bank account. Their bank 
set-up their account so that Mrs R was registered as the main account holder and Mr P was 
set-up as a secondary account holder.
Mr P was due to go on holiday. Unfortunately, he had to cancel his trip and he made a claim 
on the travel insurance policy. He was unhappy because information about the claim was 
addressed to Mrs R, even though hed made the claim. He felt that UKI had breached data 
protection laws and he complained.
UKI explained that itd written to Mrs R because she was registered as the lead policyholder 
on its systems. So it didnt think itd done anything wrong. It changed the details on Mr Ps 
claim to reflect him as the main correspondent. But it let him know that if he wanted the 
details on its systems amended going forward, he and Mrs R would need to get in touch with 
the bank.
Mr P remained unhappy with UKIs position and he asked us to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr P and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She said it was 
common for insurers to write to the main policyholder when dealing with claims. She didnt 
think Mrs R was a third party. And she felt UKI was dealing with the claim in line with the 
records itd been provided with by Mr P and Mrs Rs bank.
Mr P and Mrs R disagreed. Mr P didnt agree that Mrs R was listed as a main policyholder. 
While the insurance was linked to their joint account, the claim had been in his name and 
UKI had no right to address private correspondence to her. Mr P felt his rights to privacy and 
his personal data rights had been violated.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has treated Mr P and Mrs R fairly. Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that my role isnt to decide whether UKI has breached the 
relevant data protection laws. Thats for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to 
decide. Its open to Mr P and Mrs R to get in touch with the ICO to pursue this further if they 
wish to do so.
What I can look at is whether I think UKI administered Mr Ps claim reasonably and if not, 
whether its caused them to lose out in any way.
Ive seen UKIs records which show that Mrs R is listed as the main account holder and Mr P 
is listed as the secondary account holder. This is the way the account was set-up by the 
bank when the account was opened a few months before the claim was made. I think it was 
fair for UKI to rely on this data when it looked into the claim. So I think it was reasonable for 
UKI to use the information itd been provided with when corresponding about the claim.
When Mr P got in touch with UKI, it agreed to amend its details about this particular claim so 
that all correspondence was directed to him. I think this was a fair response in the 
circumstances. I also think UKI made it sufficiently clear to Mr P and Mrs R what steps theyd 
need to take with their bank if they wanted details about the main account holder to be 
changed. This would mean that UKIs records would be amended accordingly for any future 
claims.
Based on what Ive seen, while I appreciate Mr P feels strongly about his complaint, I think 
UKI administered his claim fairly. And I dont think he and Mrs R have suffered any financial 
loss which they need to be compensated for. So I wont be telling UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr P and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman