DRN-3771232
The complaint
A company that I will refer to as T complains about the actions of AXA Insurance UK Plc 
when T asked for a partial refund of its commercial insurance premium. T was forced to 
close as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and feels it should receive a larger refund than 
AXA provided.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary. Additionally, whilst T is represented in this 
complaint, for the sake of simplicity I have largely referred to the submissions as if they were 
Ts own.
T operates as a music venue and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by AXA. 
In March 2020, T was forced to close as a result of the restrictions introduced by the 
Government. In 2021, T contacted AXA seeking a pro-rata refund of the elements of the 
premium it paid for its public and employers liability covers. AXAs agent agreed to a 25% 
refund of the relevant portion of the premium. T felt this amount should be higher, as AXAs 
exposure to risk on these elements would have been almost zero. 
AXA did not uphold Ts complaint about this. It did provide T with £60 in compensation and 
interest relating to the length of time it took to process the refund, which T accepted. But 
AXA said that the 25% refund was the maximum it was willing to pay. 
T referred its complaint to the Ombudsman Service, saying that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had issued guidance that AXA had not followed. 
Our Investigator ultimately did not think the complaint should be upheld. He noted that the 
premium applied to the policy was on a minimum and deposit (M&D) basis, meaning the 
amount initially paid was the minimum T would be required to pay to be able to take out the 
policy. He also noted that the FCA guidance did not provide an exact method for insurers to 
take into account when considering businesses, such as T, who were impacted by the 
pandemic. But that the guidance suggested that insurers needed to carry out a product-
level review rather than an assessment for each individual customer who had been 
impacted. And, he felt that in providing a refund of 25% of the relevant premium AXA had 
acted fairly and reasonably.
T remained unhappy, so its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has provided detailed arguments as to why it considers it should be entitled to more of a 
refund. I have considered these. However, I am going to focus on what I consider to be the 
key issues. Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact 
COVID-19 restrictions have had on T, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The public and employers liability sections of Ts policy have been provided on an M&D 
basis. As with other types of similar liability insurance, the premiums for these sections are 
based on, amongst other things, the customers estimates of their turnover and wage-bill. 
However, if an M&D policy is cancelled or if the turnover/wage-bill has been overestimated, 
for example, no refund of the premium is usually payable to the customer.
Additionally, often insurers will have a minimum they will charge for providing a certain level 
of cover. In the case of Ts policy, the employers liability section provides a potential 
£10,000,000 of cover, with £2,000,000 of cover being provided for each of the public and 
products liability clauses. AXA has said that the liability sections of the policy carry the 
minimum premium T was charged of just over £500. With such premiums, the amount set is 
the minimum that the insurer will charge for providing the cover, regardless of the time on 
risk. 
T has said that there is no such thing as a minimum risk premium that does not change 
when the risk factors change. And has argued that the reduction in the risk of a claim 
occurring, due to the premises being closed, means that a larger refund may be payable. T 
has also set out that contractual terms do not mean a firm can ignore relevant rules and 
guidance. Whilst I appreciate the point T is making, and I agree that the risk of an event is an 
element involved in premium setting, I do consider that there are minimum sums that some 
insurers require in order to provide insurance at a certain level. This is common practice for 
certain types of insurance and I am required to also take into account good industry practice.
If, as is in this case, AXA require the premium of just over £500 to provide cover to the value 
the policy provides even for a days worth of cover, this premium will not be reduced 
regardless of the period of time on cover  or risk of an event occurring. Whilst an increased 
risk of the event might lead to the premium increasing beyond this, a decreased risk would 
not lower it. This would be different if the initial insured risk of the event was so high that an 
insurer had charged more than the minimum. Then, if the risk had been reduced, this might 
lead to it being fair that the premium charged should be reduced. But it would be the amount 
over the minimum premium that would be impacted by this. I will just add a note that the 
terms of the policy say that no refund is payable in relation to the M&D part of Ts policy and 
in normal circumstances this may be fair and reasonable. An assessment of this may though 
require, as T has alluded to, consideration of wider FCA rules. 
However, it was recognised that the COVID-19 pandemic created an unprecedented 
situation. T has referred to the FCA guidance, Product value and coronavirus: guidance for 
insurance firms, published in 2020. I do not intend to repeat its content in detail, as it is a 
public document that both parties are aware of. But essentially this directed insurers to 
consider whether and how the pandemic had affected the value of their products. Insurers 
were expected to make a product-level assessment where there had been a reduction in the 
risk of an insured event happening so that the product provided little or no utility to 
consumers. And where something relevant was identified, to take appropriate action. Whilst 
the guidance included a number of possibilities of such action, it was not explicit as to which 
course an insurer should take. 
The guidance was for AXA to carry out a product-level assessment. This wasnt a 
requirement for AXA to consider the individual circumstances of each customer. Such an 
assessment is something AXA may be required to do when, for example, selling a policy. 
But the guidance was for AXA to, effectively, consider whether the wider circumstances 
meant the product it was providing to its customers generally was still providing value.
It isnt clear whether AXA carried out an assessment of the product that T has, after the 
introduction of this guidance. However, I should stress that it is not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to directly ensure compliance with regulations or guidance. Such supervisory responsibilities fall to the FCA. Whilst guidance such as this is something I am 
required to take into account, my role is to determine whether, in this case, AXA has acted 
appropriately in its dealings with T and, if not, if this has caused a detriment to T. So, whilst it 
is possible AXA did not carry out the assessment the FCA indicated it should, I am only 
required to consider if this has caused a detriment to T.
I consider that by providing a refund of 25% of the relevant premiums, AXA acted fairly and 
reasonably. I say this because the guidance referred to said that:
Where firms identify something that could materially affect the value of the product 
they should consider the appropriate action to take. This could include  partial 
refunds of premiums already paid.
This does not mean that the refund should be made on a pro-rata basis reflecting the period 
of time the insured business was not able to fully operate. Not only would there still be some 
ongoing liability, but the potential size of claim would still be the same. 
As Ive said, some policies have a minimum price for providing a certain level of cover. And, 
for example, an employee visiting the premises for maintenance could still suffer injury 
leading to a claim for £10,000,000 in the relevant circumstances. 
I note T has also suggested that a comparison of the claims ratio, for periods when the 
restrictions were in place and when they were not, is the appropriate way to calculate what 
refund should be made. 
However, the FCA guidance is not prescriptive about how firms should assess the ongoing 
value of their products nor the methodology for calculating any redress. The FCA guidance 
does not instruct firms to make a refund of premiums directly comparative to any reduction in 
risk posed. Only to make sure that the product continued to provide value. Given the policy 
was provided on a minimum premium basis, arguably, continuing to charge this minimum 
would still have meant the policy provided value even where the risk of an insured event 
occurring had decreased. 
This actually is the official position AXA appears to have taken, informing its agents that any 
refund of premiums should not take the premium retained below the policy section 
minimums. It appears then that the refund provided to T was actually not something that its 
agent was authorised to provide. However, AXA has accepted the making of the refund on a 
goodwill basis. AXAs internal position here ultimately has no significant bearing on my own 
conclusions, but I consider it is useful to have referred to this nonetheless.
Additionally, the FCA guidance says:
This guidance does not create an expectation that firms should reassess the value 
of policies at a policy level because of coronavirus where claims are still generally 
possible but the likelihood of a claim may have changed
Whilst I note that specific reference is made to public liability insurance being one where 
there may be limited ongoing benefits where a business was closed, the guidance makes no 
such mention of employers liability insurance. And I have highlighted one potential scenario 
above where an ongoing benefit may have continued to be provided under the employers 
liability cover. So, it may be that any assessment of the value provided by the product might 
only be limited to the public liability cover (which would also have likely continued to provide 
some benefit, albeit significantly reduced). 
But even if the whole liability section of the policy was something AXA was expected to consider, given the minimum standard premium required by AXA for providing the cover, and 
that there was still a risk  albeit reduced  of having a claim made to this value, I am not 
persuaded that AXAs decision to provide a 25% refund of the premium for this part of the 
policy caused T material detriment. 
I note T has queried the level of compensation paid for the service failures in AXA dealing 
with the refund, including the delay in making this payment. Again, I will refer to the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and say that this does not include punishing financial 
businesses for any failings. My role is to consider whether T has suffered any detriment that 
it is appropriate to compensate. 
When thinking about this detriment, I need to think about who the complainant is and how 
they have been impacted. In this case the complainant is a limited company. A limited 
company is unable to experience, for example, distress. Additionally, T has used a 
third-party to represent it throughout. Whilst they may have experienced avoidable 
inconvenience, this third party is not the complainant. And their actions have seemingly 
shielded the limited company from experiencing the majority of the inconvenience involved. 
Taking these points into account, I consider that AXAs offer of £60 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman