DRN-3584335
The complaint
Mrs K complains about a home insurance policy she had with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral). Shes unhappy that Admiral declined a claim she had made and then also 
cancelled the policy. 
What happened
Mrs K had a home insurance policy with admiral and amongst other things would provide 
cover for accidental damage to certain items. Mrs K submitted a claim for a television, 
cabinet and carpet, all of which she says were damaged when her partner was handling the 
television. The television was being held up to the wall, as Mrs K and her partner were 
considering positioning it on the wall, when Mrs K says it slipped from her partners grip, 
hitting the cabinet and then fell to the floor  damaging the cabinet, television and carpet in 
the process. 
Mrs K submitted a claim under the insurance policy and this was considered by Admiral. 
Ultimately, Admiral declined the claim and referred to what it considered to be 
inconsistencies in Mrs K testimony during the claim process. It said that it didnt consider the 
events of the accident occurred in the way described by Mrs K. Admiral referred to section 
nine of the insurance policy terms and conditions in support of its actions and that it was 
permitted under the policy to decline the claim and void the policy from the date of the claim.
After complaining to Admiral Mrs K referred her complaint to our service, where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. They explained that having considered what the 
parties had said and provided, they did not consider Admiral had acted unreasonably and 
they did not consider the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs K did not accept the investigators findings and asked that her complaint be taken 
further. No additional details or comments were provided. As the complaint could not be 
resolved informally, it has been referred to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably 
decline it. So, Ive thought about whether Admiral acted fairly in declining Mrs Ks claim. And 
based on what Ive seen, I think it did.
There appears to be no dispute that the cover provided by Mrs Ks policy could cover 
incidents like this, where certain accidents have happened, resulting in damage to that 
particular item plus other items of furniture. Admiral has declined Mrs K claim and referred to 
section nine of the policy terms, which states:
9. Fraud  and misrepresentation
You must always answer our questions honestly and provide true and accurate information. 
If you, any other insured person, or anyone acting on your behalf, provides:
false, incomplete, exaggerated or misleading information, or
false, altered, forged or stolen documents,
we will do one or more of the following things.
Change your policy to show the correct information, and change the premium 
accordingly
Cancel your policy immediately
Declare your policy void
Refuse to pay any claim or only pay part of a claim
Keep the premium you have paid
Recover any costs from you or any other insured person
Cancel or void any other EUI policies you are connected with
Having reviewed the terms of Mrs Ks policy Im satisfied that making a false, incomplete or 
exaggerated claim, providing false, altered or forged documentation, or failing to answer 
Admirals questions honestly with true and accurate information, are reasonable grounds to 
decline a claim and cancel the policy. 
Id like to be clear that it isnt for this service to decide whether a policyholder has acted 
fraudulently or not. Rather, if Admiral is seeking to rely on this clause within the policy terms 
it needs to show it came to a reasonable conclusion, based on evidence, that its more likely 
than not, this condition was breached. So, when looking at this complaint, I need to decide 
whether Admiral acted reasonably when considering the circumstances of this claim and that 
it was fairly able to rely on this term when declining the claim. 
Admiral has referred to a number of inconsistencies in Mrs Ks submissions when the claim 
was being considered, along with questioning exactly how the accident happened and how 
the resulting damage could have occurred. In particular, whilst it is clear there is damage to 
the television this damage is not consistent with Mrs Ks description of the accident. Mrs K 
says the television slipped from her partners grasp, then hit and damaged the cabinet that 
was underneath it. The inspection report refers to the television frame being made of plastic, 
which appears to be supported by Mrs Ks photographs, and that there was no damage to 
this on the underside of the frame where it would have struck the cabinet. There was 
damage reported to the cabinet, but I think it would be more likely than not that the relatively 
fragile plastic television would have also likely shown some sign of impact damage. 
Mrs K has provided photographic evidence of damage to the carpet which she says was 
caused by the television hitting the floor. Having reviewed the video evidence of Mrs K and 
her partner reconstructing the accident, along with other descriptions of how the television 
was being held and the way Mrs Ks partner fell, I find it unlikely that the television would fall 
in such a way that Mrs K describes. Mrs K describes the top right hand corner (as you look 
at the screen) of the television hitting the ground but I do not believe the television would 
have fallen this way if Mrs Ks partners left hand had slipped and lost grip. I appreciate Mrs 
K says the television hit the cabinet underneath it and that Mr K lost balance on what he was 
standing on, but this would not in my view result in the top right hand corner hitting the floor. The photographic evidence of the damage to the carpet shows what is in my view a 
relatively neat right-handed cut to the carpet. The corner of the television frame is curved, 
made of plastic and has no sharp edges. Had the carpet shown no signs of damage prior to 
the accident I think it unlikely that the top right hand corner of the television would have 
caused damage to the carpet in this way if it had actually hit the carpet in the way Mrs K 
describes. As already mentioned, the damage is relatively neat with a right angled cut to the 
carpet and had it been hit in the way Mrs K describes I think there would be a different type 
of damage, gouge or tear, without such a straight cut on two sides. 
Furthermore, the photograph Mrs K provided of the damaged television appears to show no 
signs of any damage to the top right-hand corner of the frame or screen. The amount of 
force needed to create the damage to the carpet would be substantial and I cannot see how 
this would not have caused damage to the top right-hand corner of the screen or frame. 
Having considered all of the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Mrs K has not provided honest, true and accurate information when 
submitting the claim. And therefore, that Admiral has not acted unreasonably in relying upon 
clause nine within the terms of the policy to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
Finally, I have also considered the way in which Admiral considered the claim, including the 
information it sought from Mrs K, the questions it asked and the overall depth of the 
investigation. Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly and reasonable when administering the claim.  
My final decision
I appreciate that Mrs K will remain unhappy with the decision that I have reached here but 
for the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman