DRN-3671078
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt provide him 
with the service it should have in the delivery of gift cards and in relation to his complaint. 
What happened
Mr S ordered £400 of gift cards on 30 April 2022 using his membership reward points. He 
received an email confirming the order and was told he would be informed when the gift 
cards had been sent for delivery. He says he didnt receive any tracking information and had 
to chase for information about his order. Mr S raised a complaint and says he was given 
different information about the timeframe for a response. Mr S says the issues have caused 
him stress and meant he has needed to make several telephone calls trying to understand 
where his gift cards were. 
AESEL issued a final response letter dated 4 July 2022. It said that it received information 
from its partner that provides the gift cards to say these were redeemed online on 21 May 
2022. Therefore, it didnt uphold this part of Mr S complaint. It apologised for the incorrect 
information given by its advisers regarding the complaint timeframe and the response 
received from its partner and accepted that Mr S hadnt received the level of service he 
should have. Because of this it said relevant feedback would be provided and, as a gesture 
of goodwill, if applied £100 to Mr S card.  
Mr S wasnt satisfied with AESELs response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that AESEL wasnt required to send 
the gift cards by tracked mail as its terms didnt state this would happen. He said that when 
Mr S contacted AESEL about non receipt of the gift cards they were provided within 30 days. 
In regard to the complaint handling, our investigator noted that AESEL had accepted it was 
wrong in advising shorter timescales than it should have which caused Mr S additional stress 
and anxiety. He thought the £100 compensation paid for this was reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the gift cards should have been 
tracked and the misinformation he was provided with caused him severe anxiety. He said he 
wasted a lot of time dealing with this issue and didnt think £100 was sufficient 
compensation. Mr S also noted that while AESEL said the gift cards were used online he 
had used them instore.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr S complaint. The first is about the delayed delivery of his gift 
cards. The second is about the different timeframes he was given for a response to his 
complaint.
Mr S ordered gift cards using his membership reward points. He placed his order on 30 April 
2022. On 5 May he contacted AESEL through its Click to Chat tool to say the gift cards 
hadnt been received. He was told to allow 10 working days for them to arrive and was told 
there wasnt any tracking information. As this was in line with the terms and conditions for 
delivery, I do not find I can say AESEL did anything wrong at this point.
Unfortunately, the gift cards werent delivered within 10 working days. The AESEL terms 
state that if delivery hasnt happened within 10 working days the consumer needs to 
escalate this within 30 days. Mr S contacted AESEL on 17 May and was told that the matter 
would need to be escalated for resolution and this would take 10 working days to be 
resolved. I can understand why Mr S was unhappy with this and why he raised his 
complaint, but I find that AESEL was following its processes in escalating the issue with the 
gift cards. Mr S contacted AESEL again on 25 May by which point the system showed he 
had received and used his gift cards. 
I understand that the delay in receiving the gift cards and lack of tracking information caused 
Mr S anxiety. However, I find that AESEL correctly advised him that he should initially wait 
10 working days and then following this escalated the issue. The gift cards were then 
received a few days later and used. Therefore, I do not uphold this part of Mr S complaint.
Mr S raised a complaint on 17 May and contacted AESEL about this on 18 May. He was told 
that his complaint had been received and to wait for the outcome. Mr S contacted AESEL on 
25 May for an update and was incorrectly told he would receive a response within 15 
business days. A response was sent to Mr S dated 4 July.
Between 25 May and 4 July Mr S made further contact with AESEL. AESEL did provide a 
response to Mr S complaint within the required regulatory timeframe, but it didnt give him 
accurate information about timeframes on all occasions. I can see that this caused Mr S 
anxiety. I therefore agree that AESEL didnt provide Mr S with the service it should have, and 
that compensation should be paid.
AESEL paid Mr S £100 compensation. I understand that Mr S doesnt consider this enough. 
When considering the amount of compensation, our role isnt to punish the business but to 
assess the individual circumstances of the complaint and what impact any issues have had 
on the consumer. Mr S raised his complaint on 17 May. Mr S could have then waited for a 
response but decided to contact AESEL for updates. I understand that being provided with 
incorrect information about the timeframe will have been frustrating, but I also note that he 
was given the correct timeframe on 31 May. Mr S then chose to make contact with AESEL 
for updates but this wasnt required as AESEL was still within the timeframe set out. The 
final response letter was issued on 4 July. Taking all of this into account I think the £100 
compensation awarded is reasonable in this case. Therefore, I do not require AESEL to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman