DRN-3358570
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) unfairly terminated a
claim he made on his personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
On 31 May 2018, Mr M took out an own occupation Budget Personal Sick Pay income
protection insurance policy, covering his specific self-employed occupation. Mr M was
insured for a monthly benefit of £1465 per month, although the policy was inflation-linked.
In March 2019, Mr M suffered an accident, which left him unable to work. He required
surgery and ongoing physiotherapy. He made a claim on this income protection insurance
policy, which LV accepted. In late May 2019, Mr M contacted LV to talk about the potential of
him going back to work on a phased return basis. LV discussed the possibility of it paying
proportionate rehabilitation support if Mr M returned to work on a part-time basis.
Subsequently, in July 2019, Mr M let LV know that he was returning to work on a part-time
basis. LV told Mr M that proportionate payments were worked out based on 30 hours per
week, so if Mr M worked 15 hours per week, it would pay him 50% of his monthly benefit.
Mr M returned to work on a part-time basis. Ultimately, he provided LV with copies of his
invoices and bank statements for the months of July, August and September 2019. LV paid
Mr M 50% of his monthly benefit for July and August 2019.
But based on the evidence Mr M provided to it, LV decided to terminate the claim with effect
from 31 August 2019. It said that Mr Ms earnings had returned to his pre-accident levels. It
told Mr M that the policy stated proportionate cover would end when a policyholder was
receiving the same money as before they were too unwell to work.
Mr M was unhappy with LVs decision. He said the policy term itd relied on didnt apply to
claims for proportionate benefit. And he also said his physiotherapist had advised that he
shouldnt return to full-time work for six months, but that due to LVs decision, hed had to
return full-time from October 2019.
LV looked at Mr Ms complaint again. It acknowledged that the term itd relied on didnt apply
to proportionate claims. But it still maintained its decision to terminate the claim. Thats
because it said the policy covered 60% of Mr Ms lost income if he was unable to work. Here,
Mr Ms income had returned to its usual amount and so it said there was nothing to cover.
Mr M asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for LV to terminate the claim. She felt the contract
stated that proportionate benefit under the policy would end when a policyholder was
receiving the same money as before they were too unwell to work. As the evidence showed
Mr Ms earnings for September 2019 matched his pre-accident earnings, she thought itd
been fair for LV to rely on this term to turn down the claim.
Mr M disagreed. He said that the policy term that LV had initially relied upon and upon which
the investigator had based her findings didnt apply to the circumstances of his claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought itd been fair for LV to terminate Mr Ms claim. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that LV has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. As LV accepted the claim, it needs to demonstrate that the decision to
terminate the benefit was fair.
First, Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr
Ms contract with LV. Mr Ms claim was paid under section 6.5 of the contract. This provides
the following cover:
6.5  What if I go back to work in my previous occupation, but can only manage to work
part-time?
If, were paying your claim, and your doctor says you can go back to work on a part-time
basis, we can continue to pay you a proportion of your current benefit payable.
Well ask you how many hours you are able to work and calculate what proportion of 30
hours you are working and pay the same proportion of your benefit. We base our calculation
on a working week of 30 hours, and work out what proportion of a 30 hour working week
you are able to work.
Section 6.5 says that LV will continue to pay proportionate benefit until:
youre well enough to work full time (30 hours a week or more),
or the date your insurance ends.
if youve chosen Budget Personal Sick Pay, up until 2 years after we started paying
your claim.
you die.
All of the available evidence shows that Mr M returned to work in July 2019, on a part-time
basis, in his usual occupation. So it seems to me that it was appropriate for LV to assess the
claim under this section of cover.
However, when LV issued its first response to Mr Ms complaint and when it issued its
complaint summary to us, it pointed to the claim termination reasons under section 6.6 
What if I can work, but only in a different occupation which doesnt pay as much? This
section includes the following reason why LV may stop paying benefit:
youre receiving the same or more than you were before you became too unwell to work.
Our investigator also reached the view that LV could rely on this clause to terminate Mr Ms
claim.
Its clear though that Mr M didnt do part-time work in a different occupation. He was able to
return to his own job. So this clause simply doesnt apply to the circumstances of Mr Ms
claim. And as such, I dont think LV can fairly rely upon it to terminate the claim.
That doesnt mean I think LV needed to continue to pay Mr Ms claim though for reasons Ill
go on to explore.
In its second final response to Mr Ms complaint, LV said:Your policy covers you for 60% of your lost income if you are ill and cannot work, and as
your income has returned to its normal amount there is nothing to cover regardless (of) your
hours returning to full time.
As Ive set out above, section 6.5 states that LV will cease to pay proportionate benefit if a
policyholder is well enough to work full time. LV considered the financial evidence Mr M had
provided for the period July - September 2019 and concluded that it showed that his income
had returned to the pre-accident amount. So I think that what LV is effectively saying here is
that the evidence suggested Mr M was working full time from 31 August 2019 onwards,
because his income had recovered to its pre-accident level. And its on that basis that it
terminated his claim. Ive gone on then to consider whether this was a fair conclusion for LV
to reach. Id add though that I dont think LV has explained this particularly clearly or well to
Mr M.
When LV initially accepted Mr Ms claim, it calculated his average earnings taking into
account the payments into his business account between December 2018 and March 2019.
These were as follows:
December 2018: £4662.08
January 2019: £1758
February 2019: £2389.02
March 2019: £642
Following Mr Ms return to work in July 2019, LV noted that Mr M had received the following
payments into his business account:
July 2019: £1158
August 2019: £2346.60
September 2019: £4534.44
I too have had regard to Mr Ms bank statements and am satisfied that LV has taken into
account his income during these periods fairly.
It seems to me that in July 2019, the evidence suggests that Mr M was earning significantly
less than he usually would in a month where he was working full-time. It appears that in
August 2019, his income broadly matched his full-time income for February 2019 and was
over £1000 more than his income in July. By September 2019, Mr Ms income appears to
have broadly reached the income he received in December 2018. And it was more than
£2000 greater than Mr Ms earnings in August 2019.
I acknowledge that the earnings Mr M received in each month might not represent the work
he did in each month. Due to invoice payment terms, some of Mr Ms earnings in August and
September might be payments for work he actually did in earlier months. But I dont think
that makes a difference here. I say that because the marked increase in earnings each
month reflect a pattern of Mr M building-up his hours following his part-time return to work,
regardless of in which month that work took place. So I think the pattern of his earnings
reflect a return to his pre-accident levels, based on the figures Ive outlined above. Mr Ms
earnings between July and September 2019 (after the accident) werent substantially less in
total to what he earned between December 2018 and February 2019  before the accident.
And as Ive said, by September 2019, his earnings had broadly reached the December 2018
levels.
So I currently think it was fair for LV to conclude that by September 2019, Mr Ms earnings
indicated that he was either working full-time, pre-accident hours or that he was fit to do sobecause his earnings had reached a similar level to the months before his accident.
Mr M feels his physiotherapist recommended that he ought to carry out part-time work only
for six months following his phased return. He considers that LVs decision forced him to
return to full-time work before he was medically fit to do so. Ive thought carefully about this.
And Ive placed particular weight on Mr Ms physiotherapists letter, which was dictated on 8
July 2019. This says:
I feel that he is not yet ready for full time work. I would think that working on a part-time
basis may be all he can manage, for up to six months from now.
LV assessed this letter and agreed to pay Mr M proportionate benefit to recognise the
medical advice against him working full time hours in July 2019. I note though that the letter
doesnt say that Mr M wouldnt be able to work full time for a further six months  it simply
refers to the possibly that he may only be able to manage part-time hours for up to six
months. I understand that Mr M may have been expecting to receive support for the full six
months, but this would always have been subject to an ongoing review of his income and
incapacity. Upon receipt of further information, and, as Ive explained above, based on the
evidence presented to it; I currently think LV was reasonably entitled to draw the conclusion
that Mr M was fit for full time work, as hed returned to his pre-accident levels of earnings,
from 1 September 2019 onwards.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I currently think that based on the
totality of the evidence Ive seen, LV acted fairly and reasonably when it terminated Mr Ms
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
LV accepted my provisional findings.
Mr M told our investigator that he wasnt happy with my provisional findings, but that he had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither Mr M nor LV have provided any additional evidence or 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman