DRN-4192130
The complaint
Mrs B says Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF)  has unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In 2018, Mrs B purchased a kitchen from a company that Ill call W. W designed and 
supplied the kitchen but it didnt instal it. In total, it cost £6,917.71. Mrs B paid a deposit of 
£691.76 and borrowed £6,225.95 from BPF to pay the rest.
I dont think its necessary or helpful to repeat here the long and complicated history of 
Mrs Bs claim(s) against W and, later, BPF. Suffice it to say, there have been a number of 
problems with the kitchen and several parts have been repaired or replaced and remedial 
work has been necessary. However, problems persist.
Mrs B initially contacted BPF to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA in June 2020. 
Since then, BPF, W and Mrs B have all taken steps to try to fix the problems. As problems 
persist, however, I wrote to Mrs B in January 2023 to request an independent inspection. I 
asked that the inspector:
identify any and all outstanding issues;
determine, to the extent possible, whether those issues are the result of problems 
with the initial or subsequent design, the goods supplied, or the installation (and/or 
the remedial work thats been done); and,
determine whether those issues can be rectified and, if they can, the cost of rectifying 
them.
Mrs B sent us a copy of the report on 23 February 2023. We sent it to BPF the next day and 
BPF shared the report with W. BPF sent us its comments (which incorporated Ws 
comments) on 16 March 2023.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 May 2023. It included the following provisional findings:
First, I think its important I explain why BPF is involved  after all, it isnt a party to the 
underlying contract. Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services 
on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, that the finance provider (BPF) is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier (W). Thats the 
limit of its liability. So while Mrs B is clearly very unhappy with W, unless the alleged conduct 
is a breach of an express or implied term of the contract, BPF isnt liable.
Sections 9 and 49 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) are also relevant. Section 9 
says any goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  that is, they must meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. And section 9(3) says:
The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually 
supplied;
(b) appearance and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.
Section 49 says any service provided must be performed with reasonable care and skill. 
Reasonable care and skill isnt defined in the CRA. However, it is often held to mean the 
degree of care and skill to be expected of someone who provides those services of ordinary 
competence and experience.
Second, I want to clarify the scope of this decision.
Mrs B has sent me evidence of a medical condition that she was diagnosed with recently  
and she has, more recently, told us about other symptoms shes developed. Shes also told 
me about injuries her sons have sustained as a result of the condition of the kitchen, and the 
impact its had on the familys mental health. Mrs B has made it clear that she will pursue a 
separate personal injury claim (if necessary). Ill therefore say no more on this subject.
Mrs B is also very unhappy that a report by someone from W, who came to her home to 
inspect the kitchen in September 2020, has the word Covid written by hand in the space 
where she was supposed to sign. As Ive explained above, BPF is legally answerable for any 
breach of contract by W  but thats the limit of its liability and the scope of this decision. 
Whats alleged here is not a breach of contract  so its not something I need to consider.
Likewise, if Mrs B is unhappy with BPFs response to a subject access request (SAR), shell 
need to make a separate complaint.
Current and/or ongoing problems
On page 3 of his report, the inspector identified 11 unresolved problems with the kitchen. I 
think the problems fit into three broad categories:
The finish on the doors, drawers and other surfaces, and damage to some surfaces
The discoloration of certain surfaces and the colour mismatch between original and
replacement parts
A smell to the rear of the kitchen  although Ill consider this under the heading 
Fridge and freezer
During the inspection, another issue was identified by the inspector  he said the area
around the hob doesnt comply with Gas Safe regulations.
Given its seriousness, I shall consider this last point first.
Non-compliance with Gas Safe regulations
On page 5 of his report, the inspector says that there should be nothing fixed above the hob 
for 760mm. And within 150mm on both sides, there should be nothing fixed up to a height of 
460mm. (This is known as the hot zone.)
The inspector includes a diagram (numbered 1) to illustrate this point (although the 
measurements are illegible on the copy Ive received). And he includes two photos of the 
hob  one is numbered 2, the other is unnumbered  with the words:1b Distance between extractor and wall cabinet
Estimated at 50mm
See 1a cabinet within red zone
He says nothing more on this point until page 19, when he says:
In my opinion, an examination of the Gas Safe standards, show the space around 
the hob and extractor does not meet regulations and requires investigation and 
alteration in order to make (sic) codes of practice.
I dont think the report is as clear as it could be on this point.
First, it provides only one measurement, when I would expect to see at least two  the height 
of the wall cabinet and the distance between the hob and a line drawn directly down from the 
wall cabinet.
Second, the measurement provided (50mm) is different to what I understood was the same 
measurement provided by Mrs B in an email dated 13 February 2023. Mrs B told us the 
distance between the extractor fan hood and the wall cabinet was 150mm.
I emailed Mrs B to ask her to explain the discrepancy.
Helpfully, Mrs B replied to say:
the height of the wall cabinet  which is the distance between the work surface and 
the bottom of the cabinet  is less than 460mm; and,
she remeasured the distance between the extractor fan hood and the wall cabinet 
and it is 110mm.
She said that as a result:
the bottom corners of the wall cabinets on either side are in the hot zone and 
contravene Gas Safe regulations; and
the extractor fan doesnt work properly and doesnt remove heat, steam and fumes 
effectively.
Mrs B said she thought the 50mm the inspector refers to in his report is the space thats 
needed at the back of a hob if its fitted into a worktop. As she has a standalone oven and 
hob, its not a relevant consideration in this case but she thinks it was included to fully 
explain the hot zone.
I disagree. While the inspector does say there needs to be a 50mm gap at the back of a hob 
if its fitted into a worktop, separately and next to a close-up photo of the gap between the 
extractor fan hood and the wall cabinet, which has been highlighted with a red pen, and 
under the words, distance between extractor and wall cabinet, the inspector has typed the 
words, Estimated at 50mm. Its clear to me that this is a measurement that the inspector 
has taken and, in context, I dont see how it can be anything other than the distance between 
the extractor fan hood and the wall cabinet.
However, as Mrs B says its actually 110mm, Ill assume its 110mm for the purpose of this 
decision. And Ill proceed on the basis that the bottom of the corners of the wall cabinets are in the hot zone in any event.
Since the report, Mrs B has raised two related points.
First, she told us shes worried that if the area around the hob doesnt comply with Gas Safe 
regulations, it may affect her home and contents insurance.
Second, she told us about a problem shes recently had with her oven. Mrs B says that on 
9 March 2023, the oven started to smoke and there was a strong chemical smell, and the 
circuit breakers for the kitchen tripped. Mrs B called a third party, which disconnected the 
oven. Mrs B has sent us photos which seem to show mould on the wiring. And she says the 
engineer who repaired the oven told her that moisture was accumulating in the oven 
because the extractor fan isnt working. Unfortunately, the brief report (or job card) that the 
third party supplied simply says: Faulty oven causing [RCD  residual current device] to trip. 
All wiring to oven is fine. Trips once oven turns on, and I havent seen a report that confirms 
the cause the of the faulty oven.
I asked that the inspector determine, to the extent possible, whether any issues he identified 
were the result of problems with the initial or subsequent design, the goods supplied, or the 
installation. Here, he says:
Design/fitting error  the supplied plan shows a 112mm gap each side of extractor to 
the wall cabinets.
On Ws final design, the height of the wall cabinet is 425mm and the distance between the 
extractor fan hood and the wall cabinets is 112mm  which would seem to place the corners 
of the cabinets in the hot zone. Mrs B told us that Ws compliance team rejected a number 
of early designs for other reasons but didnt mention this.
In response to the inspectors report, W says Mrs B provided her own extractor fan hood  
and says it was for Mrs B or her installer to ensure that any appliance she supplied 
separately fit into the kitchen design. And it refers me to page 18 of the contract, which says:
Our designers and surveyors are not technical experts and you and your installer 
should have checked that all measurements are correctYou or your installer should 
have checked that the kitchen can be installed as designed.

You need to ensure that you or your fitter have the necessary skills to install a 
kitchen. You or they must be qualified to work with gas and electric[W] will not 
accept any liabilities for any issues caused during the installation by you or your 
installer, this includes any costs that are a result of deviations from the kitchen plan 
we provide with your contract.
Relying on this disclaimer, W says: If the extractor [fan] hood has been installed against Gas 
Safe regulations, [W] would highly recommend [Mrs B] reach out to the installer she 
contracted with and paid to install her kitchen.
BPF says it agrees with W  and asks for clarity on the installers liability in this instance.
In reply, Mrs B says the measurements of the appliances she supplied separately 
(specifically, the oven and extractor fan hood) precisely match the corresponding 
measurements on Ws final design. And she says its because of Ws design that the corner 
of the wall cabinets are in the hot zone.
Here, I agree with Mrs B. The design itself seems to be flawed  and I dont understand the point W makes (and that BPF adopts) as theres nothing to indicate that the wall cabinets are 
in the hot zone because the oven and/or extractor fan hood are larger than they are in the 
final design.
Im also not persuaded that Ws disclaimer absolves it of any responsibility.
W offers a kitchen design service and, in this case, the design was ostensibly reviewed by 
someone from a compliance team. Section 49 of the CRA makes it clear that any service 
provided must be performed with reasonable care and skill. Neither W nor BPF has 
acknowledged the apparent flaw with the design or argued that it actually complies with Gas 
Safe regulations  which is surely a basic requirement of any kitchen design. Whats more, 
the disclaimer says W doesnt accept liability for any costs that are a result of deviations 
from the kitchen plan we provide with your contract. But here, there was no deviation from 
the kitchen plan.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Ws failure to ensure that its kitchen design complied 
with Gas Safe regulations was a breach of contract for which BPF is legally answerable. And 
Im therefore currently minded to tell it to pay Mrs B the cost of rectifying the problem. 
However, Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that the distance between the extractor 
fan hood and the wall cabinets has impaired the effectiveness of the extractor fan or 
otherwise caused the problems with the oven.
I appreciate that W thinks the installer is liable, and BPF essentially makes the same point 
by asking me to clarify the installers liability in this case.
The Gas Safe register website makes it clear that a gas hob will only be compliant with the 
regulations if its installed by a competent Gas Safe registered engineer. And I accept that, 
by simply following Ws design, the installer may have breached the contract he or she 
entered into with Mrs B  by also failing to exercise reasonable care and skill  and/or been 
negligent. However, Im not persuaded that the breach of contract by W was superseded by 
the subsequent negligence of the installer. To conclude that W isnt liable, Id need to be 
satisfied that there was a break in the chain of causation. Such an inquiry is fact sensitive. 
But when, as here, there are potentially two parties at fault, the courts have held that the 
conduct of one party must obliterate the wrongdoing of the other for there to be a break in 
the chain of causation, and if the causes are concurrent, its unlikely that the chain will be 
broken. See Flanagan v Greenbanks Ltd (t/a Lazenby Insulation) [2013] EWCA 1702. Here, 
I think Ws breach of contract remains an effective cause of the loss, and therefore the chain 
of causation was not broken.
Fridge and freezer
Mrs B has raised a number of concerns about the fridge and the freezer, which are 
integrated. I understand the fridge was replaced under warranty by the manufacturer in 
2020. However, because it had leaked, the tower unit in which it sat (and which was supplied 
by W) was damaged. Specifically, Mrs B says the broken fridge had rusted into the unit, 
which had taken on water and consequently bowed in the middle. She says there was a 
noticeable smell  and when the broken fridge was removed, the plaster behind it had damp 
patches. When the fridge was replaced, the new fridge was put into the wet, bowed tower 
unit. Mrs B says the engineer refused her request to just leave the fridge so that she could 
replace the tower unit first. (On the evidence before me, its not clear if W delivered the 
replacement fridge or if it was the manufacturer.)
W subsequently replaced the tower unit. However, Mrs B says that by this point, the 
replacement fridge had sat in the old unit for quite some time. And she says the new fridge is 
now leaking water, has rusted at the bottom, and the fridge shelves are often covered in water. Mrs B says the replacement unit is now blown too. She says the plasterwork has 
never been inspected or repaired  although she doesnt know what state its in because it 
cant been seen. Again, Mrs B says theres a noticeable smell  and food doesnt last as 
long as it ought to in the fridge.
In his report, the inspector includes three photos of the fridge (photos 15-17), two photos of 
the freezer (photos 19 and 21) and one of the freezer unit door (photo 14).
The inspector says the freezer unit door is twisted and warped (photo 14).
Alongside photo 15, he says:
As a result of water damage there is corrosion to the hinge. The wooden shelf that 
the fridge sits on has badly stained and the covering to the edge of the chipboard 
shelf is beginning to delaminate and separate.
Photos 16 and 17 supposedly show that the gasket around the fridge is not forming a 
consistent seal and is leaving marks and that a side seal gasket is missing.
Next to photo 19, the inspector writes: Freezer frosting up at time of inspection. Finally, 
photo 21 supposedly shows that the trim gasket sags and requires securing.
And on page 18 of his report, the inspector says:
Homeowners have identified a smell in the kitchen located to the rear of the inbuilt 
fridge and freezer unit.
Due to the in-built nature of these units, with the kickboard being wedged in position, 
the height, angle and accessibility at the top of the units mean the inspection and 
testing are impossible.
I note [that the ombudsman services investigator] cannot guarantee that removal by 
others of the appliances will not invalidate any warranty. The inspector is not 
equipped or willing to undertake such a task.
Therefore, I would recommend that the only way of determining the cause of the 
smell to the rear would be to remove both the fridge and freezer in order to facilitate 
an inspection. Furthermore, if damp was found to be present further investigations to 
the rear of other cabinets may be required in order to assess how its spread.
In response to the inspectors report, W says:
it replaced the tower unit  but it says Mrs B chose not to instal the replacement unit 
and instead used it to extend her kitchen;
the poor quality of photo 16 doesnt clearly show any issue with the seal  but Mrs B 
still holds a warranty on the fridge which can either be repaired or replaced;
it isnt clear why the side seal gasket is now missing  this wasnt identified as an 
issue when W did a home inspection in September 2020 and Mrs B didnt include it 
when she sent our service photos of the outstanding issues;
it isnt unusual for a freezer to create frost, especially after 4 years  and it isnt clear 
if the inspector is saying this is a problem, but if there is a problem, it hasnt been 
reported to W (or BPF) until now; and,
as W didnt instal the kitchen, if the trim gasket needs to be re-secured, Mrs B should 
speak to her installer.In reply, Mrs B says she did replace the fridge tower unit with the unit that W supplied in 
November 2020. The additional tower unit that can been seen in a photo, and which W 
mistakenly thinks was the replacement unit, was in fact a larder provided by W in lieu of a 
refund for the worktops that Mrs B paid for but which she didnt order. W recently sent me an 
email that confirms that this is exactly what happened. Its therefore very disappointing that it 
made the allegation it did.
Mrs B also says the manufacturer says the fridge is now out of warranty.
Ive carefully considered the inspectors report and the comments of all parties.
Its clear to me that Mrs B is especially concerned about the smell in the kitchen  whats 
causing it and the impact it has had or may have on her health and the health of her family.
It is therefore regrettable that the inspectors report adds nothing to Mrs Bs testimony. He 
doesnt even say that he thinks there is a smell  instead, he says: Homeowners have 
identified a smell.
I made it clear what I needed from the inspector and why. And Mrs B chose the inspector. It 
was entirely right for our investigator to say she couldnt and wouldnt guarantee that 
removing the fridge and freezer wouldnt invalidate any warranty. But its clear that this was 
needed to determine the cause of the smell  and the inspector didnt do it.
When a consumer makes a claim under section 75 of the CCA, she must provide evidence 
to show that there has been a breach of contract by the supplier for which the lender is 
legally answerable. And my role is to decide whether I think it was fair for the lender to 
decline the claim based on the evidence supplied.
Here, there is insufficient evidence to determine the cause of any smell, let alone attribute it 
to a breach of contract by W. It was therefore not unreasonable for BPF to decline Mrs Bs 
section 75 claim on this point.
Likewise, although Mrs B says the replacement fridge is now leaking, the inspectors report 
doesnt say this. It mentions water damage  but that isnt sufficient for me to conclude that 
theres a problem with the fridge, or that the goods supplied by W were not of satisfactory 
quality.
On the other issues the inspector identified with the fridge and freezer:
Its not clear from the photos, or the inspectors comments, how much or why the 
freezer trim gasket sags, and why the gasket around the fridge is not forming a 
consistent seal. This could be because of wear, damage, the installation, or the 
quality of the appliances. Im therefore not currently minded to tell BPF to pay Mrs B 
the cost of replacing and/or re-securing the gaskets. In any event, I understand 
theyre cheap and easy to replace.
Similarly, on their own, the bare statements that the side seal gasket [is] missing, 
freezer frosting up at time of inspection, and freezer unit door twisted and warped, 
do not say who, if anyone, is at fault  and I must therefore again conclude that it 
wasnt unfair for BPF to decline Mrs Bs section 75 claim on these points.
The finish on the doors, drawers and other surfaces, and damage to some surfaces
The inspector says that the wrap on some of doors, drawers and surfaces is delaminating.
Specifically, he says the following surfaces are delaminating:An island end (photo 7)
An island door (photo 10)
The door below the sink (photo 11)
Another island door (photo 12)
The cutlery drawer (photo 22)
He notes that the wrap on the cutlery drawer has totally de-bonded (or failed)  and this is 
clear from the photo he includes. In his concluding comments on page 19, he says: How 
badly these other door units might be affected and how many might be affected is impossible 
to assess.
In response to the inspectors report, W says:
Mrs B didnt raise any concerns about the island end when she contacted our 
service, so this appears to be a new concern  and it says it is evident from [photo 7] 
this dcor end has sustained some sort of physical damage;
the poor quality of photo 10 doesnt show delamination of the island door  and this, 
again, appears to be a new concern;
there is only one door under the sink on the island  so photo 11 shows the same 
door as photo 10;
the poor quality of photo 12 doesnt show delamination of the other island door; and it 
is quite clear from photo 22 that the wrap on the drawer has come away  but it says 
Mrs Bs kitchen is covered by a 20-year warranty, so she can pursue a claim under 
her warranty free of charge.
In reply, Mrs B says W is wrong about the warranty: according to her contract, the kitchen 
carcasses have a 25-year warranty but the doors are only covered for 10 years. And she 
disagrees with Ws comments about the quality of the photos.
First, I agree with W that photos 10 and 11 show the same door  which means that there 
are two island doors that are reportedly delaminating, as well as an island end and the 
cutlery drawer.
And it is clear from photo 22  and accepted by W and BPF  that the wrap on the cutlery 
door has totally de-bonded.
However, despite looking at photos 7, 10, 11 and 12 very carefully, I cannot see that the 
island end and the two island doors are delaminating or to what extent. But likewise, I cant 
see any physical damage either. (W may wish to clarify this point and highlight the damage 
on the photo so that BPF can share this with me when it replies to my provisional decision.) 
That said, on balance, Im satisfied that the island end and the two island doors are 
delaminating. I say this because the inspector is clear that they are  and I see no reason to 
doubt him. Whats more, one of the photos Mrs B sent us initially  and which we shared 
with BPF  was of the island end and it clearly shows that the wrap is bubbling.
I wouldnt expect the wrap on any door or surface to delaminate so soon. Im therefore not 
persuaded that the two island doors, the island end and the cutlery drawer supplied by W 
were of satisfactory quality. This is a breach of contract for which BPF is legally answerable.
The inspector also identified several surfaces that are damaged. I shall address each below:
The inspector says the dishwasher door has been damaged by the clips mounted 
either side. As this is clearly the result of poor installation, I need say no more on this point.
Similarly, the inspector says the kickboard under the fridge and freezer is stuck in 
place when it should be removable. He says this is a fitting error on page 19 of his 
report. Mrs B disagrees. She says the kickboards have blown because of the water 
thats leaked from the fridge and freezer. Mrs B says its a fire risk as they dont have 
access to an electrical appliance thats leaking water, and its prevented them from 
assessing the water damage and potentially identifying the cause of the smell. While 
I accept that thats a possibility, I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence to depart 
from the conclusion of the inspector that this was a fitting error.
According to the inspectors report, photo 9 shows the removal of blue paint finish 
from the top edge of base unit door. He doesnt say more. To my eyes it looks more 
like damage than delamination. In the absence of a clearer photo or further comment 
from the inspector, Ive seen insufficient evidence that the door is not of satisfactory 
quality.
Similarly, photo 13 seems to show a very small mark in the very corner of a door. As 
the inspector says he us unable to establish whether delaminating or damage at this 
stage, Ive again seen insufficient evidence that the door is not of satisfactory quality.
The inspector says some trim is separating and needs to be re-fixed in position. 
Again, the inspector doesnt say more. I dont know where or why the trim is 
separating. Consequently, I cannot say that W is at fault.
Photos 23 and 24 are, according to the inspector, examples of surface abrasions 
that are localised and appear to be in similar areas in most cupboards. Ive looked at 
photo 23 very carefully. Regrettably, I cannot see any abrasion. Photo 24 is clearer 
and shows some minor surface damage in the very corner of the cupboard. W says 
Mrs B mentioned this issue when it inspected the kitchen in September 2020. The 
subsequent report, which includes two photos of what appears to be the same 
surface abrasion thats shown in photo 24, says: Customer advising over time 
through cleaning the back panel has become marked. Mrs B vehemently denies that 
she said this. Respectfully, I dont think it matters either way. I say this because Ive 
only seen one example of a very small surface abrasion at the back of a kitchen 
cupboard. This simply isnt enough for me to conclude that any of the units are 
defective in a way that amounts to a breach of contract by W.
The inspector says a tall unit door is slightly warped (photo 25) and the door to the 
unit that houses the boiler is twisted and warped in two places (photo 34). There are 
several reasons why a door may warp, including excessive heat or humidity in the 
home, the way the door was stored before it was installed, the installation and the 
quality of the door itself. Again, the inspector doesnt say who, if anyone, is at fault  
and Im therefore unable to say it is W.
The discoloration of certain surfaces and the colour mismatch between parts
In his report, the inspector includes a number of photos that purportedly show a colour 
mismatch between different parts of the same kitchen unit, or discoloration of certain 
surfaces:
Photo 20 reportedly shows a shadow edge on the inside of the door, where it 
touches the carcass when its closed. The inspector says its a typical example of 
many doors and the cause is unknown.
Photo 26 reportedly shows that the colour of the door is slightly different to the side 
panel of the base unit.
According to the inspectors report, photo 27  which is a photo of a wall unit  is a 
great example of three differing colours. In full, the inspector says: Despite the 
limitations of the camera and the photograph shows [sic] the difference in colour 
between the door, the light pelmet and the custom end panel.Photo 29 reportedly shows that the colour of the two doors on a tall unit are slightly 
different.
Photo 33 reportedly shows that the colour of the cornice on the side of a wall unit is 
slightly different to the colour of the cornice on the front of the unit.
Photo 49 is actually 4 photos. 1 and 3 are the same and show a wall unit. 2 seems 
to show a base unit door and 4 shows an open cupboard that seems to abut a 
washing machine or tumble dryer. The inspector says photo 1 is another example 
of three different components all of different shades of the same colour.
These photos are apparently examples of the problem rather than the extent of it.
Regrettably, the inspectors report on this issue isnt particularly helpful.
First, the poor quality of the photos means that, despite studying them very carefully, I 
cannot see what they reportedly show.
Second, Im confused by the inspectors comments. He initially says he cant substantiate 
Mrs Bs claim that the doors are yellowing over time, but he goes on to say (in the same 
sentence) that the variation of colour has probably occurred over time due to the instability 
of the paint finish to the doors or other environmental factors which is affecting the paint. At 
first blush, it would appear hes agreeing with Mrs B. However, he then says that unless the
components are all manufactured by the same company there will always inevitably [sic] be 
some variation of the colour of the doors compared to the other components. He continues:
In my opinion the homeowner has been misled and over promised that colours 
would match between components. I do not believe the components themselves are 
defective in colour, they just were not well matched. (My emphasis.)
This statement is unequivocal and I cant reconcile it with his earlier comment. He then says 
that environmental factors, such as sunlight, levels of cleaning and aging will affect the 
appearance of doors and components causing them to appear mismatched even if from the 
same manufacturer. But two paragraphs earlier, he says: Paint finish should be stable and 
able to withstand environmental factors and the vigour of normal cleaning in a domestic 
situation.
In response to the report, W says it initially replaced some panels in November 2020 (for 
free, under warranty) and then replaced all panels in March 2021 to ensure that they 
matched in colour, after a complaint from Mrs B that the replacement panels didnt match. It 
also included a copy of a call note from 24 March 2021 that says: Call to [Mrs B] to confirm 
the fitter was there and had completed most of the white and it looked very good. She was 
happy with the product For photos 20, 29, 33 and 49, it says the poor quality of the photos 
means it cant see if there is a colour difference. And for photo 26  which it says is Dcor 
panel number 8  it says Mrs B complained that the panel had a yellow tinge when it 
inspected the kitchen in September 2020, and it replaced the panel in November 2020. 
Likewise, it says photo 27 shows unit 16, and it says it replaced these panels in March 2021 
when Mrs B complained about the colour mismatch.
In reply, Mrs B makes it clear that she thinks the units (or parts thereof) are discolouring. I 
think its worth reiterating my role here: I must decide whether I think it was fair for BPF to 
decline Mrs Bs section 75 claim on this point based on the available evidence.
Here, Im told there is a colour mismatch but I cant see it myself, which means Im also 
unable to assess the degree of any mismatch: I dont know if its significant, and may 
therefore justify a finding that the goods are not of satisfactory quality, or negligible, which 
would not justify such a finding.And, although I cant be sure, on balance, I think the inspectors conclusion is that the 
components themselves are not defective, they are just not well matched. On this basis, 
even if I were to conclude that there is a noticeable mismatch, Mrs B chose to instal and 
therefore accept the replacement panels despite the mismatch. As shed earlier rejected one 
set of end panels because of a colour mismatch, she clearly knew she could.
All things considered, Ive seen insufficient evidence that the panels supplied were not of 
satisfactory quality because of a colour mismatch or because theyve subsequently 
discoloured. It follows that I do not think it was unfair for BPF to decline Mrs Bs section 75 
claim on this point.
All other matters
In his report, the inspector includes two photos (Photo 28) that show gaps between the 
units and the wall tiles as a result of the panels and cabinets being replaced. He says 
remedial grouting is required. Likewise, photo 30 shows a wall thats been re-painted by the 
homeowners after a panel or cabinet has been removed. The inspector recommends that a 
professional be commissioned to ensure a consistent finish.
I understand parts of the kitchen were replaced for free under warranty. Separately, the 
parties have, at various stages, made and accepted offers to resolve problems and 
complaints. I dont know if W agreed to pay the cost of making good, or if its covered under 
the warranty. But I havent seen any evidence that BPF is responsible for this, either directly 
or because its legally answerable for a breach of contract by W.
What does BPF need to do to put things right?
Above, Ive explained why, provisionally, I think:
Ws failure to ensure that its kitchen design complied with Gas Safe regulations was 
a breach of contract for which BPF is legally answerable; and
the two island doors, the island end and the cutlery drawer supplied by W were not of 
satisfactory quality.
Ive thought carefully about what I think BPF should do to put things right.
First, I think it should pay the cost of altering the kitchen so that it complies with Gas Safe 
regulations. I should like to make a money award to bring some finality to this complaint. I 
would therefore ask that all parties tell me how much they think it will cost to complete this 
work  and send me any supporting evidence they have. For example, Mrs B may wish to 
obtain and send me some quotes from local tradespeople.
Second, Mrs B could make a claim under her warranty for W to replace, for free, the island 
doors, the island end and the cutlery drawer. Its clear she doesnt want to do this. An 
alternative to replacement is compensation. Here, I think BPF should simply refund the cost 
of the four items. I think this strikes the right balance: it reflects the fact that Mrs B could 
simply make a claim on her warranty, but still recognises that the goods supplied are not of 
satisfactory quality.
I appreciate that Mrs B wants to reject the kitchen completely and wants BPF to refund the 
full cost of the kitchen  including the costs she incurred installing it, and the cost of any 
items she purchased from other suppliers. She also wants interest and compensation. In the 
circumstances, I think this would be wholly disproportionate given my provisional findings.Finally, I requested an independent inspection. Given the history of this case, I was and 
remain of the opinion that this was necessary in order to bring matters to a conclusion. As 
the inspection identified problems that I think BPF needs to pay to remedy, I think it should 
also pay the cost of the inspection (£420).
I sent both parties an email on 2 June 2023 to explain what I was minded to tell BPF to do as 
a result of the responses I received to my request that both parties tell me how much they 
think it will cost to alter the kitchen so that it complies with Gas Safe regulations. My email 
said:
When I issued my provisional decision, I asked both parties to tell me how much they think it 
will cost to alter the kitchen so that it complies with Gas Safe regulations.
Ive now received a response from both parties.
Mrs B says it would be completely unacceptable for me to award a sum of money so that 
she could pay someone else to alter the kitchen.
To do this, she says [W] would need to supply parts that match her current kitchen. Mrs B 
says shes contacted other suppliers and they all say any parts they supply wouldnt match.
So she says I would need to instruct [W] to alter the kitchen using its own parts.
Mrs B says she visited a [W] store and was told it has discontinued the style of kitchen she 
purchased. She says she then called a different store and was told the same thing  
although they offered her an alternative thats similar. Mrs B says this would not be 
acceptable. Mrs B says she then visited another [W] store. A salesperson made some 
suggestions  specifically, she suggested Mrs B replace the cupboards either side of the 
extractor fan hood with smaller cupboards, and then potentially add a larder at the end of the 
kitchen to make up for lost cupboard space. From what Mrs B says, its not clear if the 
smaller cupboards the salesperson recommended would match her current kitchen. 
However, while at the store, Mrs B spoke to someone from [W]s complaints department on 
the phone. The complaint handler said [W] had ordered some replacement parts for Mrs Bs 
kitchen and would visit the property to inspect the area around the hob and the extractor fan 
hood. Mrs B says she explained to the complaint handler that she hadnt agreed to this and 
wouldnt allow it. She also explained that [W] had ordered the wrong parts. After this phone 
call, the salesperson told Mrs B that she couldnt do any more to help.
BPF hasnt said how much it thinks it would cost either. It has simply repeated its point that it 
thinks it was for Mrs B to ensure  with her installer  that any guidelines and/or 
specifications were met. And it says Mrs B accepted the plan prior to contracting.
First, I think Mrs B has misunderstood my role and my powers. My role is to consider a 
complaint about BPF and the way it has handled her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). I cannot instruct [W]  which is not a party to this 
complaint  to do anything. And I will only tell BPF to take such steps  or pay such sums  
as I think are strictly necessary to remedy the breach of contract by [W] for which BPF is 
legally answerable. For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think BPF needs 
to pay the cost of altering the kitchen so that it complies with Gas Safe regulations. The 
salespersons suggestion that Mrs B replace the two cupboards either side of the extractor 
fan hood seems sensible. Similarly, Mrs B may be able to pay someone to alter or move the 
existing cupboards or units. Im therefore satisfied that a money award is a fair and practical 
remedy in this case. And, importantly, it will bring some finality to this complaint.
As neither party has told me how much it thinks it will cost to alter the kitchen, I must, 
necessarily, paint with a broad brush. Mrs B has previously provided an invoice from the company that fitted the kitchen. In total, she paid £2,300. This included tiling, and appears to 
include VAT. She has also provided a quote from the same company for some remedial 
works dated 16 November 2020. The quote was for £1,170 plus VAT. This quote went up to 
£1,435 in January 2021 when more work was added. These quotes seem to me to be a 
good starting point. Removing and replacing two cupboards, or altering or moving the 
existing cupboards or units, would seem to be less work than that quoted for in 
November 2020. That said, if Mrs B needs to replace the cupboards, shell have to buy two 
new cupboards. According to the contract, the list price of the cupboards either side of the 
extractor fan hood was £354, although Mrs B paid £176.98. Taking all of this into account, 
and in the absence of any evidence that indicates the likely cost involved, Im minded to tell 
BPF to simply pay Mrs B £1,000 so that she can pay for the alterations. To be clear, if this is 
what I tell BPF to do in my final decision, and Mrs B accepts it, it will be the end of the matter 
 and it will not be revisited by myself or anyone else at this service regardless of the actual 
cost of the work.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments and evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 9 June 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPFs response to my provisional decision and subsequent email
BPF accepted my provisional findings that it should:
refund the cost of the island doors, the island end, and the cutlery door; and
refund the cost of the inspection.
But, as Ive explained above, it disagreed with my provisional finding that it should pay the 
cost of altering the kitchen so that it complies with Gas Safe regulations. However, it has 
since accepted my revised provisional finding that it should pay Mrs B £1,000 so that she 
can pay for the alterations.
Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision and subsequent email
In my email, which Ive included in full above, I summarised and addressed some of the 
points Mrs B made in response to my provisional decision. Mrs B also made the following 
points:
She mentions some of the problems she says shes had with this kitchen  and she 
says she doesnt think Ive upheld her rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA).
Mrs B says that every time she has work done to fix a problem, she has to get three 
quotes, take time off work, and fight W to pay the costs involved. Shes explained 
that shes self-employed  as is Mr B  and they dont get paid when they dont work. 
Mrs B says shes spoken to a solicitor who has questioned whether the kitchen is fit 
for purpose.
She has asked the inspector to clarify aspects of his report.
Mrs B says the plinth under the kitchen was bending outwards, so she removed it 
as it was sodden with water  and she has sent me photos of the plaster behind the 
fridge. She says she contacted the manufacturer of the fridge to ask it to replace the fridge  
which she says is rusted inside and leaking. However, the manufacturer says it is no 
longer under warranty.
Mrs B refers me to the inspectors comments about the freezer unit door being 
twisted and warped, corrosion to the fridge, and delamination of the fridge unit, and 
she asks: should these not be dealt with?
She repeats her objections to Ws allegation that she used a replacement unit to 
extend her kitchen.
Mrs B acknowledges that the inspector didnt clarify the smell in the kitchen. But she 
says he mentioned water damage, twisted and warped doors, etc. and questioned if 
a further inspection was necessary and asked that the Ombudsman issue further 
instructions as to this. Mrs B says shes provided photos of this damage but I didnt 
address this at all.
Mrs B says the fixing clips that damaged the dishwasher door were provided by W. 
And she says the door has already been replaced once due to delamination yet it 
has done it again.
She says there is much discoloration of our kitchen  and shes provided lots of 
photos to show this. Mrs B says Ive ignored our investigators report.
Mrs B says they fitted the replacements parts as they appeared to match  but they 
have since discoloured. And she says I need to take into account fitting costs for 
these items.
She has provided more photos, which she says shows the discoloration, bubbling, 
delamination of certain surfaces, bowing doors, and water damage.
The inspector wrote separately:
He says he writes at the bequest of [Mrs B], whose frustration [he] share[s], relating 
to some of [my] responses to his report.
The inspector says I have made my decision without actually visiting the premises 
and witnessing the issues for myself  and it had not occurred to [him] that anyone 
could, or would, make decisions without visiting the site. And he says he would be 
more than happy to meet up with [me] at the property to go through the issues one 
by one so that I can make a decision that better meets the facts of the case.
He says the issues are in plain sight and includes a list of problems.
Mrs B has also made further submissions:
Recently, Mrs B noticed some water around the fridge so she called the provider of 
her home insurance policy. A surveyor came to inspect the fridge and Mrs B has sent 
me a copy of the one-page form he completed. He has circled yes to indicate 
internal damage and no to indicate that there isnt contents damage. Next to the 
words, cause of damage, hes written: Natural breakdown of materials (failed rubber 
seal). The form doesnt say anything else. However, Mrs B says the surveyor 
commented on the volume of water inside the fridge and apparently told her the fan 
on the fridge is not kicking in. And Mrs B has sent me four close-up photos of the 
fridge  and an excerpt thats apparently from the surveyors report. She says she 
cannot send me the full report due to GDPR.
In response to my email, Mrs B repeated and reiterated a number of points shes 
made previously. She stresses that its her legal right to have the same amount of 
cupboard space whatever the alterations and that the existing cupboards cant be 
altered because it would look ridiculous. Mrs B says she will need new tiles  and 
the tiles she used initially have been discontinued  and the area will need to be 
made good. Most recently, Mrs B asked a master carpenter for possible solutions to 
the problem. He told her she had three options: (1) she could completely remove the kitchen and replace it with a kitchen from another supplier; (2) she could fit a smaller 
cupboard either side of the extractor fan hood, add a narrow larder unit, and then 
repair the rest of the kitchen; or (3) remove the two cupboards either side of the 
extractor fan hood, fit a fake overmantle/chimney in the space, and then repair the 
rest of the kitchen. Mrs B has sent me quotes for each option.
Mrs B has put forward other proposals  all of which involve BPF paying for a 
significant amount of work to be done that I didnt think it needed to pay for when I 
made my provisional decision. (Although Mrs B repeatedly refers to W in her 
correspondence.)
She now also asks for compensation for food lost, days off work, stress, injuries, 
etc. And she says she reserves the right to revisit this issue if any further health 
issues come to light.
Mrs B says Ive ignored 70% of her complaint points, and she says I told her to use a 
warranty for the fridge/freezer that she cannot.
Ive attempted to summarise, above and in my earlier email, the submissions Ive received 
from Mrs B as I want her to know that Ive carefully considered all the points shes made and 
the evidence shes provided. However, shes repeated and reiterated a number of points that 
she made previously, which I addressed in my provisional decision. So I dont intend to 
address the same points again  or those that essentially fall away in light of my final 
decision. Instead, Ive tried to concisely explain why the additional comments and evidence 
Ive received since I issued my provisional decision havent changed my mind.
As I explained in my provisional decision and my subsequent email: BPF is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by W  thats the limit of 
its liability; and, my role here is to decide whether I think it was fair for BPF to decline 
parts of Mrs Bs claim based on the evidence shes provided. Mrs B says she wants 
W to address all the problems that were highlighted by the inspector in his report. But 
the mere fact that theres a problem doesnt mean BPF has to pay to fix it. I must first 
be satisfied that the problem was caused by a breach of contract by W for which BPF 
is legally answerable. And in my provisional decision, and by reference to all the 
available evidence, including the inspectors report, I explained which problems I 
thought BPF had to pay to fix and which problems it didnt.
When I asked for an independent inspection, I made it clear what I needed from the 
inspector and why  and I think it was clear to all that I wouldnt inspect the kitchen 
myself. In his recent email, the inspector includes a list of problems but he doesnt 
identify the cause of those problems, or expand upon the comments he made in his 
report. For example, on the list of problems he mentions: Delaminating/chipped 
dishwasher door. He doesnt say more. But in his report, he refers to damage to 
dishwasher door, which he says was caused by the clips mounted either side. His 
report included two photos of the damage to the door and two photos of the clips 
that caused the damage. His report doesnt mention anything about delamination  
and the photos dont show any delamination. Based on the inspectors report, I 
provisionally concluded that the damage was caused by poor installation. He hasnt 
said anything in his email to change my mind. Similarly, in my provisional decision, I 
carefully analysed what the inspector said about the colour mismatch  and I 
highlighted some apparent inconsistencies in his report. In his email, the inspector 
says a camera cannot pick up nuances in colour or in scale and explains that some 
organisations  he specifically mentions the National House Building Council 
(NHBC)  dont accept photos as evidence because they can be manipulated. On 
the list of problems, he mentions: Discoloration of doors and panels and Different 
colour/style materials etc. throughout kitchen. But, again, he doesnt say more. He 
doesnt try to explain the apparent inconsistencies in his report. Nor does he say I 
was wrong when, in my provisional decision, I said: although I cant be sure, on balance, I think the inspectors conclusion is that the components themselves are not 
defective, they are just not well matched. In short, the inspector has not said 
anything in his email thats changed my mind about anything I said in my provisional 
decision. Likewise, Ive looked at the additional photos Mrs B has sent me  but they 
havent changed my mind about the likely cause of any colour mismatch.
To be clear, I didnt say Mrs B should make a claim on her fridge/freezer warranty. 
Instead, I said Id seen insufficient evidence to conclude that the goods supplied were 
not of satisfactory quality. Mrs B has since sent me a one-page form that was 
completed by a surveyor who has inspected the fridge. This clearly states that there 
is internal damage. But it says it was caused by a natural breakdown of materials 
(failed rubber seal). On its own, this simply isnt enough for me to conclude that the 
fridge supplied was not of satisfactory quality. I appreciate that Mrs B says the 
surveyor also told her the fan isnt working  and she has sent me what she says is a 
section of a report from the insurer, which also says the fan is not functioning  but 
he didnt mention this on the one-page form he completed at the time. And, again, 
the evidence supplied is not sufficient for me to conclude that the fridge supplied was 
not of satisfactory quality.
In my provisional decision, I explained that Mrs B had made it clear that she didnt 
want me to consider or comment on any injuries sustained or her current health 
concerns. She now says she wants me to award compensation for both. At this late 
stage, I dont think it would be fair or appropriate to allow Mrs B to amend her claim in 
this way. Nor do I think it would be fair to award any additional compensation for lost 
food or days off work. First, as Ive explained above, I dont think the available 
evidence is sufficient to conclude that the fridge supplied was not of satisfactory 
quality  so I dont think BPF needs to compensate Mrs B for any spoiled food. 
Second, I dont think it was necessary for Mrs B to take time off work to get the 
information I requested in my provisional decision  or that it would be appropriate, at 
this late stage, to revisit past efforts to rectify the kitchen to determine whether or not 
Mrs B needed to take time off work.
Finally, Mrs B has recently sent me some quotes from a local carpenter. As I dont 
think BPF needs to pay to fix all the problems with the kitchen, I dont need to 
consider, or comment on, every item quoted. Suffice it to say, Mrs B says it would be 
cheapest to remove the cupboard to the right of the extractor fan hood and replace it 
with the cupboard thats currently on the left, and then add a false overmantle with a 
fitted extractor fan and a splashback (so that no tiling is needed). The carpenters 
quote to build the mantle is £1,450. Mrs B has also sent me one example of an 
integrated cooker hood, which costs £189, and one example of a splashback, which 
costs £369.58. She says shell also need a small tin of paint, which would cost £54. 
In my email of 2 June 2023, I said that, in the absence of any evidence that indicates 
the likely cost involved, I was minded to tell BPF to pay Mrs B £1,000. Ive carefully 
considered the new information that Mrs B has provided. I can see that shes chosen 
brands that are mid- to high-end and more expensive than others. And the quote 
from the carpenter also seems to be more expensive than I would have expected 
given the invoice and quotes that I referred to in my earlier email. And its just one 
quote. In the circumstances, I still think that £1,000 will likely cover the cost of 
altering the kitchen to an acceptable standard.
All things considered, and for the reasons Ive given above, in my provisional 
decision and in my email of 2 June 2023, I think BPF needs to:
(1) refund the cost of the island doors, the island end and the cutlery drawer 
 W has told BPF that the cost of these items is £662.34;
(2) refund the cost of the inspection (£420); and, 
(3) pay Mrs B £1,000 so that she can pay for the kitchen to be altered so that 
it complies with Gas Safe regulations.So in total, I think BPF should pay Mrs B £2,082.34.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mrs B £2,082.34.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman