DRN-3116425
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of O, complains about how Allianz Insurance Plc dealt with a claim on its 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
O holds a mini-fleet insurance policy with Allianz. A van on the policy was involved in an 
incident with a third partys car. The third party said Os van reversed into them and 
damaged their car. Because of this the third party claimed on Os policy. 
Mr D disputed Os van had caused damage and provided dash cam footage of the incident. 
Allianz reviewed the dash cam footage and didnt think the claim was one it could defend if it 
went to court. Allianz therefore accepted liability for the claim. Mr D thought Allianz had 
accepted the claim too quickly and complained. Allianz reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. It said it had accepted liability after reviewing the dash cam footage and 
considering the legal opinion. It also said it could lead to increased claim costs if it delays 
accepting a claim.
Mr D didnt agree and referred Os complaint here. He said it wasnt clear from the dash cam 
footage if Os van had come into contact with the third party and there was no damage to Os 
van. He also said the £1,800 claimed by third partys insurer was excessive for the damage 
reported. Because of this he had an engineer to review the third partys car who estimated 
the repair cost to be £839.71. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
Allianz had acted fairly in accepting liability. However, he didnt think Allianz had done 
enough to check the amount being claimed by the third party. So, he recommended Allianz 
pay O £150 for the inconvenience it had suffered by having the third partys car inspected.  
Mr D didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He said it had cost O more than £150 
in his time sorting out the claim. Allianz also didnt agree, it said it had concerns about the 
claim costs and while it had used the engineers report Mr D provided, it was unfair to say it 
would have paid the full amount requested by the third party insurer. Allianz also said it was 
disputing the amount claimed and was still in discussions with the third party insurer. 
As neither party agreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Os policy, like most policies we see, give Allianz the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a 
decision O disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third 
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Allianz made a reasonable decision in doing 
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Ive considered Mr Ds points about Allianz settling the claim too quickly, but Im not 
persuaded this means Allianz did anything wrong. I say this because Allianz accepted 
liability after reviewing the dash cam footage. While there are differing opinions on whether it 
shows Os van coming into contact with the third partys car, Allianz considered this and 
obtained a legal opinion which said it didnt think this would be a claim it could defend if it 
went to court. Im therefore satisfied that Allianz took reasonable steps to review the liability 
of the claim. 
I can also see that the value of the claim and the personal injury claim is still being disputed 
as Allianz has some concerns over it. Allianz has said it had concerns even without Mr D 
obtaining an engineers report on the third partys car. I appreciate Allianz may have had 
concerns, but as Allianz hadnt informed O of this its had the unnecessary inconvenience of 
arranging an engineer to review its van and the third partys car. Im therefore satisfied its 
fair and reasonable for Allianz to compensate O for this unnecessary inconvenience and I 
agree that £150 is a fair amount for this. 
Allianz has also confirmed its not agreed a repair cost, or the personal injury claim on Os 
policy. As it has concerns about these, I agree its fair and reasonable for Allianz to dispute 
them. Once they have been settled if Mr D disagrees with the outcome, he would need to 
raise a separate complaint.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partly uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance 
Plc to pay O £150 for inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman