DRN-1627296
 
complaint
Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance ('PPI') 
policy in relation to a credit card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case. Where there is incomplete, 
contradictory or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based 
on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both 
sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Lloyds made Miss S aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and she 
chose to take it. 
I say that because Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the application form. To get the 
PPI, Miss S had to select it on the credit card application form. I have noted that the PPI was 
selected on Miss Ss application form. Had Miss S not wanted to take the PPI she could 
have left the box blank. There is no language in the documentation that states or implies that 
Miss S had to take the cover to get the credit.  
Miss S thinks she did leave the PPI box unselected. Miss S has told us the PPI was selected 
without her consent by the representative of the business. Ive thought about this. In this 
case I have some other evidence to consider. Ive seen a credit card statement from 17 
January 2000 which shows that Miss S was paying for CARDHOLDER PROTECTION 
PLAN. Ive seen this on a later statement too. So I think its more likely that Miss S would 
have been provided with these statements and would have been aware she was paying for 
this policy. So, if Miss S hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think her statements would have put 
her on notice she was paying for something she hadnt agreed to and she would have, most 
likely, raised this as an issue with Lloyds many years before she eventually chose to do.     
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Miss S aware the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure her agreement to take it out. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, and whilst acknowledging that things could have 
happened just as Miss S said they did, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Miss 
S aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. For example Miss S was eligible for the policy and Miss S was not affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Miss S told us that she had only modest sick pay. And Miss S told us she had little or 
no other means she could have relied on such that she might have had to rely on her partner 
to help make her credit card repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Miss S told us about, and would have 
reduced her reliance on whatever help her partner may have been in a position to offer her 
at such a time. So, thinking about all of this, I think Miss S could have found the policy 
useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies offering similar 
benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable. So having thought about 
everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Miss S.
As well as checking the policy was right for Miss S, Lloyds also had to give her clear enough 
information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Lloyds gave her was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better information 
wouldve made a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think Miss S 
has lost out as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman