DRN-3005166
The complaint
Mr B complains he was given unsuitable advice by Portal Financial Services LLP (PF) in 
2015 to transfer his Section 32 plan into a Flexi-Access Drawdown Plan (FADD). He says 
hes financially worse off as a result and has lost valuable pension guarantees.
What happened
Mr B was a member of the Royal London scheme and was invested in a plan with low 
exposure to the stock market. His plan offered him enhanced tax-free cash (ETFC) of 
37% of the fund value. In June 2015, his ETFC amount was around £9,354.
Mr B contacted PF in May 2015 to get advice about accessing the money he had in 
his plan. He was looking to make some home improvements and to repay money 
owed to his children. He and his wife were suffering from some health issues and 
he said the home improvements would help meet their ongoing needs. 
PF obtained details of Mr Bs transfer value from Royal London. His transfer value was 
around £25,069. The annual management charge (AMC) on Mr Bs plan was 1%. 
The retirement pack Mr B was sent by Royal London presented four options:
Option 1  Tax Free Cash of around £9,354 and a Single Life Pension (non-
escalating) of around £642 per year
Option 2  Single Life Pension (non-escalating) of around £1,033 per year
Option 3  Tax Free Cash of around £9,354 and an Open Market Option of 
around £15,715 which needed to be used to secure pension benefits with 
another insurance company
Option 4  Transfer Value of around £25,069
PF completed a fact find by telephone and noted the following about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time:
he was 57, married and looking to retire at 66;
both he and his wife had health issues;
he was in receipt of around £1,000 per month from state benefits which 
included Income Support and Disability Living Allowance;
he was servicing loans of around £3,000 to £4,000;
he owned a property which had an interest only mortgage on it. It was worth around 
£120,000, with a £90,000 mortgage on it;
he had no savings, investments or other disposable income. This was his only 
pension other than his state pension;
his attitude to risk (ATR) was Moderately Cautious.
PF sent Mr B a pensions pack in July 2015, included in it was a suitability report setting 
out its recommendations. PF advised Mr B to transfer the full value of his plan (option 4) 
into the FADD with Company A and to take 25% of the fund (around £6,267) as a tax-
free lump sum (TFC) before investing the residual money. The reason for the 
recommendation was to enable Mr B to access the TFC he needed and because he 
had no requirement for further income at that time.
A declaration was signed by Mr B on 28 July 2015 acknowledging he would lose his 
entitlement to the ETFC sum if he decided to transfer out of his current plan. He was 
also made aware that his entitlement to state benefits may be affected as a result of 
taking 25% TFC. The suitability report confirmed his benefits, particularly Income 
Support, would reduce on any savings above £6,000  by £1 for every £250 up to 
£16,000. Above £16,000 no more support would be provided. He was told to contact 
his local benefits office about this. He was also told there would be an early repayment 
charge on his plan. 
The suitability report explained there would be an initial charge of 5% for the advice 
provided by PF and this would be taken from the residual fund not the TFC. It also said 
that PF would also receive an ongoing adviser charge of 1% for conducting annual 
reviews. Further, Company A would receive 0.48% as an annual management charge 
(AMC). Company A also charged £75 for any ad-hoc lump sum (other than the TFC) or 
income withdrawals from the fund. Mr B signed a declaration on 28 July 2015 confirming 
he was aware of the charges. 
PF recommended Mr B invest his residual money in a moderately cautious portfolio 
in the following investments:
35% Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund
47.5% Dimensional Multi Factor Equity Fund
10% Henderson UK Property Unit Trust
2.5% Premier Pan European Property
5% Cash
The suitability report explained that Equities and Fixed Interest Securities were subject 
to market risk.
Mr B agreed to the recommendations and signed the application and declaration 
forms on 28 July 2015.
 
PF carried out an annual review in 2016. The review correspondence said Mr Bs fund 
had grown from £17,721.31 (after charges and taking TFC) to around £20,196 as of
29 September 2016.
PF completed a further risk assessment with Mr B in July 2016. It concluded then that 
he was a balanced investor. As a result, it recommended he sell his Premier and 
Henderson funds and invest as follows:
27.94% Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund
67.06% Dimensional World Equity Fund
5% Cash
In 2017 Mr B withdrew all his money from the FADD.
Mr B complained to PF that the transfer wasnt suitable because he lost access to a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) and ETFC of 37%. He also said as he had no 
capacity for loss, he shouldnt have been advised to invest in funds that carried risks.  
Mr B also said the transfer to the FADD meant he had to pay more in charges.PF responded and said Mr B was provided with suitable advice because he was looking 
to access cash immediately to pay off some debts and carry out some home 
improvements. It said taking his pension through FADD was the only way to access this 
cash without also taking an income. Furthermore, the recommended portfolio matched 
his ATR. In terms of the lost guarantees, PF said there was no Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension and the only lost benefit was the ETFC. However, if Mr B had opted to take the 
ETFC through his existing provider, his entitlement to benefits may have been affected. 
Therefore, the recommendation to take 25% TFC was more suitable. It said all the risks 
were explained within the suitability report.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. In January 2021, our investigator recommended 
that Mr Bs complaint was upheld. Our investigator set out the methodology for calculating    
Mr Bs potential loss to put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in, so far as 
possible, but for PFs unsuitable advice on the investments. The investigator selected a 
benchmark which he considered to be consistent with Mr Bs ATR.
Our investigator explained, in his opinion, the transfer was suitable given Mr Bs clear and 
definite need to access cash at that time. However, the investigator concluded that the 
investments PF recommended Mr B make, were not suitable because they were too high 
risk when compared to his attitude to risk (ATR).
Further, our investigator concluded that whilst the options given to Mr B included taking 
ETFC of £9,354 and that could have covered his home improvement costs and repaying 
his children, the suitability report said that he was only looking to withdraw enough money 
to cover his home improvements and to repay some debts. So, it didnt seem 
unreasonable that the adviser only recommended withdrawing enough to cover his 
immediate needs. 
Mr B said he spent £5,500 on kitchen improvements and the remainder of the money on 
white goods for the kitchen. Our investigator said that it seemed that Mr B changed his 
mind about how he spent this money  as he didnt repay the debts and spent more on 
the home improvements. However, in our investigators view, Mr Bs PF adviser could 
only rely on the information he was provided with at the time by Mr B  so he didnt think 
PF had done anything wrong in making the recommendation to transfer.
Our investigator said, if Mr B had opted to take the ETFC he would also have had to 
take an annuity with Royal London or on the open market, And within the fact find, it 
said that Mr B didnt want to take further retirement income at that time. 
PF didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the investments recommended 
were consistent with Mr Bs ATR. 
PF also said, in any event, when calculating loss in line with the investigators 
recommendation, there was no loss. This was because the amount Mr B withdrew from 
his scheme exceeded the amount he wouldve been entitled to recover if Mr Bs pension 
had been invested post transfer as per the benchmark set out in the investigators 
methodology.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view that the transfer was suitable for him. He said, 
through his representative, he would have waited to access his previous scheme if PF had 
clearly explained the benefits attached to his previous scheme. Also, as he was approaching 
retirement, it may not have been worth considering a transfer. He said PF failed to point out 
this important factor.Mr Bs representative also said that it didnt agree with PFs no loss calculation. It said it was 
not clear that PF had used the correct benchmark. It said the transfer in amount was 
£25,317.71, Mr B received TFC of £6,329.81 and PF took a fee of £1,266.59. Mr Bs 
representative said that PF should not have taken this fee. as the advice was unsuitable.
As agreement hasnt been reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PF had to provide information in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr B could 
make an informed choice about taking his pension. It also had to make sure that it was 
making a recommendation which was suitable for Mr Bs needs and circumstances.
Recommendation to transfer 
ETFC
The options presented included taking ETFC of £9,354, but this wasnt available if Mr B 
opted to transfer. He could only access the ETFC if he took an annuity at the same 
time. I think it wouldve been important to Mr B to take enough tax-free cash to meet his 
objectives of paying for his home improvements and repaying family debts. Afterall, the 
reason Mr B approached PF was to access a cash lump sum. 
I can see however that he was concerned about the impact on his benefits of taking his 
pension. Theres reference in the fact find to how it might affect his mortgage 
repayments and council tax reduction. 
If Mr B took a higher cash lump sum and the annual annuity, it wouldve had more 
impact on his benefits than taking a lower cash lump sum. Taking ETFC was not 
obviously, therefore, necessarily in Mr Bs best interests overall. Mr B was advised by 
PF that his entitlement to state benefits may be impacted by his decision to take TFC. 
PF recommended he contact his local benefit office about this. I havent been told he 
did.
Protected rights
PF said that Mr B didnt have a Guaranteed Minimum Pension from his section 32 plan. 
Mr B said, through his adviser, he did.
Theres reference in the paperwork sent by Royal London to Mr B to him having 
protected rights. Ive also seen paperwork showing Mr Bs protected rights from 1995. 
This said that he had a guaranteed minimum pension of £253.24.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not clear what the position was. I say this because the 
four options presented to Mr B by Royal London did not refer to these protected rights. 
However, my view is the same whether Mr B had protected rights or not. Ill explain 
why.
If Mr B had protected rights, I cant see that PF made it clear to Mr B what he would be 
giving up if he transferred. However, given the likely modest amount of protected rights 
involved and Mr Bs objectives and needs at the time, I dont think this wouldve been an important consideration in Mr Bs decision on how to proceed. 
FADD costs
The ongoing charges were higher for the FADD, by at least 0.48% per year. But, this 
didnt necessarily make the recommendation unsuitable providing the recommendation 
otherwise appeared suitable for Mr Bs needs, when compared to the other options 
available or remaining in his scheme. Given Mr Bs other objectives, I cant see that the 
recommendation was unsuitable based on costs grounds. 
Clear and fair information
The suitability report explained clearly to Mr B that he would be giving up the option to 
take ETFC if he proceeded with Option 4. It explained the costs of transferring to him. It 
explained that his benefits may be affected by taking TFC. But as Ive said, 
I cant see that PF provided Mr B with any advice about his protected rights in the section 32 
plan (if he had any) and what he wouldve been giving up. So, I have gone on to consider 
whether Mr B has lost out financially as a result of not being told about any protected rights 
he may have had.
Has Mr B lost out?
Mr B said he would have waited to access his previous scheme if PF had clearly explained 
the benefits attached to his previous scheme. Also, as he was approaching retirement, he 
said it may not have been worth considering a transfer. 
I think Mr B urgently wanted to take a lump sum from his pension to meet his objectives of 
carrying out home improvements and repaying family debt. He didnt want an income, 
because that would impact on his benefit entitlement. The FADD allowed him some flexibility 
going forward, which an annuity wouldnt have. Mr B later made use of this flexibility by 
withdrawing all of his pension from his FADD, an option he wouldnt have had if he had 
opted for options 1-3. .As, Ive said , I dont think the value of Mr Bs protected rights in the 
section 32 plan (if any) wouldve been a significant consideration in the decision he made to 
transfer. So, I cant see that Mr B has lost out financially as a result of not being provided 
with this information. Based on what Ive seen, even with this information, I think he wouldve 
transferred out as he had an immediate need to access the TFC and didnt want an income 
and the protected rights were likely modest in amount (if any). I think Mr B wouldve 
considered it worth giving up any protected rights, in the same way as he chose to forego 
the ETFC..
So, overall, I cant see that the recommendation was clearly unsuitable or that Mr B has lost 
out as a result of the advice he received from PF to transfer.
Advice fee
The advice fee was 5% of the transfer value, which in Mr Bs case was around £1266. 
He was clearly told about this in the suitability report. Mr B wanted advice on how to 
access a capital amount from his pension. On the basis that Ive found that the advice 
PF gave Mr B to transfer wasnt unsuitable for his needs, circumstances or objectives, I 
cant fairly say that it was inappropriate for this fee to be deducted.  
Attitude to Risk and Investment recommendations
When PF assessed Mr Bs ATR it asked him a number of questions. Mr Bs answers show 
that he was uncomfortable investing in the stock or property markets. He preferred safer investments, including bank deposits, compared to what he perceived as riskier 
investments. He had little experience of stocks and shares or property and he was anxious 
about making investment decisions. He was concerned about the volatility of stock market 
investments. Mr B was deemed to be a Moderately Cautious investment by PF.
Based on the responses to these questions, I agree with our investigator, I dont 
think the recommended investments were appropriate for Mr B. Its clear Mr B was 
looking for safer investments, such as bank deposits. PF recommended that Mr B 
invest 60% of his remaining money in equities and property, when Mr B had said he 
wasnt comfortable investing in either of these. 
Mr B also clearly didnt have the capacity for loss. He had a modest amount of equity 
in his home, was in his late 50s, in receipt of benefits, in ill health and had no other 
assets. This was his only pension. So, I cant see that the advice to invest in these 
particular investments at the point of transfer, which Mr B was clearly uncomfortable 
with, was suitable advice in his circumstances.
In July 2016, PF reassessed Mr Bs ATR. It changed from Moderately Cautious to 
Balanced. PF has not produced anything to demonstrate the basis of this reassessment or 
to show how or why Mr Bs circumstances might have changed in the interim. PF revised 
its recommendation, saying that Mr B should invest 67.06% in Equities, 27.94% in Bonds 
and 5% in Cash. I havent seen anything to show that Mr B had become any more 
uncomfortable with stock market investments by 2016. So, I dont think this was a suitable 
recommendation either.
How to put things right
Following our investigators view PF said it carried out a loss calculation using the 
methodology and benchmark put forward in that view. PF said the calculation showed 
that Mr B had suffered no loss because the recommended investments performed better 
than the comparative benchmark our investigator proposed based on Mr Bs ATR.
PF said Mr B withdrew the balance of the money invested in the FADD in two lots, in 
August 2017 and November 2017. The fair value of Mr Bs FADD based on the 
benchmark was £20,427.47 and Mr B withdrew £22,120.54, meaning he suffered no 
financial loss.
Mr B says, via his representative, that this no loss calculation is not accepted because its 
not clear if PF used the right benchmark.
PF has been asked to produce a calculation in a clear and simple format for Mr B. This 
service does not generally verify loss calculations, and I see no reason to do so here. If 
Mr B does not accept that his loss has been calculated in line with the methodology set 
out in this final decision, it is open to him to seek an independent view on this. 
I make the same order as our investigator in relation to how redress should be calculated. 
Ive explained why below.
To compensate Mr B fairly PF should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss 
and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable. PF should also pay any interest set out 
below.If there is a loss, PF should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. PF shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If PF is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr B would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
PF must provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PF considers that it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional interest
Aegon ARC 
pension surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per year on any 
loss from the end date to 
the date of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, PF should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. This applies to the advice fee.  If there is a large 
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all 
those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr B has clearly been caused some upset to his retirement planning as a result of the 
unsuitable investment advice he was given by PF. I consider an appropriate amount to 
acknowledge this is £250. This award is consistent with other awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right as I have 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman