DRN-4339801
The complaint
Miss M is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).  She says they 
shouldnt have lent to her as the loan was unaffordable. Miss Ms complaint was brought to 
our service by a representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss M took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, via a 
broker, to finance the purchase of a car. Miss M paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed 
£4,200, to pay the cash price of £4,600. The agreement required her to make 54 monthly 
repayments of £170.01. Miss M deferred a payment in September 2020 but made this up 
over the following months. In August and September 2022, her direct debits bounced and 
again she made up those missed payments in the months that followed. 
In December 2022, Miss M complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her 
because the loan was unaffordable. She said her income had been very low and unreliable 
at the time of the lending decision. And she said Moneybarn had verified her disposable 
income and it was very low.
In their response, Moneybarn said theyd conducted a full credit search and also verified 
Miss Ms monthly income using a current account analysis done by a Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA). Moneybarn added that they used data from the Office for National Statistics 
(ONS) to estimate Miss Ms level of non-discretionary expenditure. Overall they were 
satisfied theyd done enough checks and the agreement was affordable for Miss M.
Miss M remained unhappy so brought her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She said she didnt think Moneybarn had completed 
proportionate checks  but she thought if they had their checks would have shown the loan 
was affordable for Miss M. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss M disagreed. She said with the number of defaulted accounts she had and the amount 
due across those accounts it was irresponsible to lend to her even if the repayments 
appeared to be affordable from her income and expenditure. She added that a family 
member had been paying most of the repayments and that shed ended up returning the car 
before the end of the agreement. Finally she said that when she was arranging the finance 
the brokers representative suggested she speak to family members to ask if they could help 
with the money. She asked for a decision and the complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator - Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said theyd looked at Miss Ms credit file which showed that her existing 
borrowing levels were very low and there were no recent missed payments. They said the 
credit file showed Miss M had defaulted on some borrowing, the most recent of these was 
three months prior to her application, there were no County Court Judgments, and the 
amounts werent of concern.
Moneybarn havent provided a copy of the credit report they looked at  so Ive looked at the 
one Miss M provided. This shows Miss M had five defaults  one for water, and four for mail 
order credit. Two were registered in April 2018 and the other three in June 2019  just three 
months before Moneybarn decided to lend to her. The credit report suggests that the only 
active lines of credit Miss M had at the time were for water (a new account) and car 
insurance.
Moneybarn also said they carried out an income and expenditure assessment. They verified 
Miss Ms monthly net income at £1,050 using a CRA tool, and they estimated her non-
discretionary expenditure at around £527 using ONS data. They added on £71 for her 
borrowing commitments and around £137 to cover variations in estimates and calculated 
that Miss M had monthly disposable income of around £315  which was more than enough 
for monthly loan repayments of £170.
CONC allows firms to use statistical data in their affordability assessments unless they have 
reason to suspect that a customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than 
that described in the data. In this case, Miss Ms recent defaults suggested that Miss M 
might be in financial difficulties  and therefore that her non-discretionary expenditure might 
be higher than described in the data. In addition, the loan was for a period of nearly five 
years, and Miss M had a low income entirely from benefits. So Im not satisfied it was 
proportionate for Moneybarn to rely on the statistical data. I think they should have done 
more.
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Miss Ms 
income and expenditure to determine whether she would be able to make repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive looked at statements for Miss Ms bank account for the three months preceding his 
application to Moneybarn  June, July and August 2019. Im not saying Moneybarn needed 
to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other 
information, bank statements provide a good indication of Miss Ms financial circumstances 
at the time the lending decision was made.
The statements show Miss Ms monthly net income was around £975 per month. On top of 
her benefits income, she was receiving money from an individual  but shes told us that she 
was borrowing this and then repaying it each month. And she had receipts into her current 
account from her savings account  but these were offset in full each month by payments 
into her savings account. So Im satisfied Miss Ms only regular income was £975 per month.Miss Ms told us she wasnt paying rent  it was paid directly in housing benefits. Her 
statements show little in the way of regular expenditure  on average I can see around £30 
per month for mobile and broadband, around £40 for electricity and gas, and around £71 per 
month for car insurance. She doesnt appear to have been making any payments against her 
defaulted debts, and had no direct debits apart from her car insurance. Miss M was paying 
for food and petrol  on average spending around £300 - £400 per month on groceries, fuel 
and other essentials. 
This gives a total of up to around £550 per month of non-discretionary expenditure. 
Deducting this and £170 per month for Moneybarns loan repayments suggests it would 
have been reasonable for Moneybarn to decide Miss M had around £250 net disposable 
income for discretionary spending  and therefore that the loan was affordable for her.
I appreciate Miss Ms said she was told to ask family members to help with her finances. But 
looking at the figures set out above, it doesnt look like this would be necessary. I also 
realise Miss M wasnt making repayments against her defaulted debts  and that she 
borrowed from friends and family, occasionally used her overdraft, and rarely had money to 
spare in her current account. But I can see she was spending money on non-essentials, and 
withdrawing significant amounts of cash which also appears to have been for non-essentials. 
So, while I realise itll be disappointing for Miss M, I cant say Moneybarn should have 
decided the loan was unaffordable for her.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman