DRN-3941322
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Tyl wont 
reimburse a refund processed through its merchant terminal which it says it didnt authorise.
What happened
L operates a retail premises. On 1 March 2022 an employee of L was attempting to take a 
card payment from a customer. The customer took the card terminal in order to enter his 
PIN. The transaction failed and the customer did not complete the purchase. Ls employee 
became suspicious and checked the transaction, only to discover that the customer had 
actually processed a £1,000 refund to the card that had been entered. L reported the matter 
to Tyl almost immediately. 
Tyl said there was nothing it could do and that L was responsible for ensuring that refunds 
were processed properly.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators upheld the complaint. 
They thought that the processing of a refund in this way was a payment service under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) and, therefore, L could only be held 
responsible for a transaction it had authorised. The investigator was satisfied (based on 
CCTV evidence) that wasnt the case. They also thought that L hadnt breached the terms of 
the account by allowing the customer to take control of the terminal  as this was a common 
practice that enabled a customer to enter their PIN with a degree of privacy. 
So, the investigator recommended that Tyl refund L in full as well as refund any charges 
associated with the transaction.
L didnt raise any objection to the proposed settlement. Tyl didnt agree. It said that L had 
been in possession of one of its devices since 2020. The device came with a document 
which contained links to online guides and videos which explained the various features of 
the machine.
One video explains that L could provide different levels of authority to different staff 
members by creating individual profiles with different settings. One such setting is the ability 
to give refunds. Tyl say that had such controls been in place here, the fraud would have 
been prevented and therefore L was in breach of its terms (specifically clause 6.6).
Another article (seemingly accessed through several different links), highlights the risk of 
fraud involving customers cancelling card transactions and instead putting them through as 
cash transactions.
The article suggests the user is attentive when a customer is using the card machine and the 
receipts are checked after use. It also highlights the kind of fraud L fell victim to, explaining 
again that the ability to give refunds can be disabled for certain profiles.
Finally Tyl point to an email it had sent L which contained links to information about how to 
keep its card machine secure.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter carefully, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained 
why below.
- By providing merchant terminal services to L, Tyl was acting as its payment service 
provider.
- The refund was a payment transaction for the purposes of the PSR 2017.
- Under the PSR 2017 a payment service user isnt generally responsible for payment 
transactions it hasnt authorised.
- In this case, the CCTV evidence is consistent with Ls account of events. It shows a 
third party processing the transaction using the card terminal.
- The transaction was evidently not authorised by L, so, as a starting point, L should 
not be responsible for it, unless it can be shown that L acted with gross negligence or 
intent in failing to adhere to the terms of its account or Regulation 72, PSR 2017 
(which, among other things, requires payment service users to take all reasonable 
steps to keep personalised security credentials safe).
- Tyl, in its defence, seeks to rely on its terms, specifically clauses 10.3, 10.4 and 6.6 
of its Card Machine Hire Terms (the Terms) as well as information and warnings it 
says it has given to L.
- Clauses 10.3 and 10.4 of the Terms explain that any refund must be on the same 
card that was used to make the payment and that the merchant will be liable for any 
errors or failures when processing refunds. 
- But L didnt make the refund to a different card, a third party did. Neither did L make 
an error or fail in some way, it was subject to fraud. 
- So, I dont think those terms conflict with the PSR 2017 but, even if they did, the PSR 
2017 would take precedent. 
- Clause 6.6 of the Terms sets out that users must ensure that the card machines and 
equipment remain identifiable and accessible, and you shall: a. keep the card 
machines and equipment in your control, properly protected.
- The actions of Ls employee might have been slightly careless, but they were not 
grossly negligent. They gave the terminal to the customer for legitimate reasons and, 
though the actions of the customer were visibly inconsistent with just entering a PIN 
and they held onto the terminal for longer than might be expected, the fraudster 
deliberately distracted the employee and they had little time to react and prevent the 
fraud.
- Given the need to allow a card machine to be in the control of a customer to enter a 
PIN and the fact that in this case the card machine doesnt appear to have left Ls 
employees sight, I cant agree that clause 6.6 has been breached with gross 
negligence by the employees actions.
- Tyl also appear to argue that L breached its terms by failing to restrict the ability to 
give refunds to a senior member of staff. But, nothing within the information provided 
(which, in any case, does not form part of the Terms), shows that Tyl required the 
ability to give refunds to be limited to senior staff. Tyl only appears to suggest that 
this step is taken. So I cant agree that by failing to do this, clause 6.6 has been 
breached.- While Tyl has taken some steps to make customers aware of the risk of this type of 
fraud, its not particularly prominent information and takes the form of general advice, 
rather than specific conditions for operating the card machine. 
- So, Tyl havent demonstrated that L has failed with gross negligence or intent to 
adhere to the terms and conditions or Regulation 72 of PSR 2017.
- That means Tyl should refund L in full. 
- As it seems likely that L would have used the money for day to day expenditure, I 
think simple interest should be paid at 8% per annum from the date L was without the 
funds to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay L:
- £1,000
- Interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount from the date L was deprived of the 
funds to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
- Any charges associated with the transaction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman