DRN-3247082
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Ms S authorised the payments in question. So, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, shes presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice, Id expect 
Halifax to have systems in place to monitor for indications that its customers are at 
risk of fraud. In some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to 
make additional checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that 
failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Halifax liable.
The payments Ms S is seeking to recover from Halifax are two debit card payments 
made to Jubiter.com, for £1,600 and £2,700. Both were made in July 2019, around 
one week apart.
From what Ms S has told us, I do think she fell victim to a scam  as Ive seen scam 
warnings about the company shes told us directed her to make these payments. But, 
despite what shes suggested, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Jubiter was part of 
the scam. Rather, the information Ive seen suggests Jubiter is a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange, which the scammers likely directed Ms S to use to buy 
cryptocurrency. And that she was then either directed to transfer the funds onto the 
scammers, or otherwise tricked into granting them access to the funds. So I dont think 
the destination of the funds alone would reasonably have alerted Halifax that Ms S 
might be at risk from fraud.
Nor do I think the size of these payments would have appeared suspicious, given the 
level of monitoring and intervention its reasonable to expect from banks. The payments 
went to a legitimate trader, and were spread over several days  meaning Ms S had 
time in between to reflect and decide whether to make further payments. And I dont 
think the payments were so large as to reasonably warrant further checks. I consider it 
reasonable that Halifax simply acted on Ms Ss authorised payment instructions. 
Meaning I dont hold it at fault for not intervening or completing further checks at the 
point of these transactions.
Ms S is also unhappy that Halifax wont support her with a chargeback claim. This is a 
voluntary scheme whereby the card-scheme provider decides how to resolve payment 
disputes. Halifax isnt obliged to raise a chargeback claim, but Id consider it good 
industry practice to do so if a claim is likely to succeed.
As explained above, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Jubiter was part of the scam. Nor 
has Ms S submitted anything to show that it didnt fulfil its contractual obligations. I cant 
see, for example, that its been alleged or demonstrated that it didnt credit her Jubiter 
account in line with the payments she made. From what Ive been told, I consider it 
more likely the actions shes unhappy about were committed by the fraudulent company 
she was dealing with. And the actions of those not directly party to the payment arent 
covered by the chargeback scheme. The same is true of Section 75 claims under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  which, in any event, dont apply to debit card payments. 
Overall, I dont consider it likely that a chargeback claim against Jubiter would have 
succeeded, so I wouldnt have expected Halifax to raise one. 
Ms S also says she should be refunded in line with the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But the Code doesnt apply to debit 
card payments. It only covers (subject to the remaining terms of the Code) UK bank 
transfers. So this doesnt apply to Ms Ss fraud claim. 
Its clear Ms S has lost money to a scam, so I understand why she feels strongly about 
recovering this. But this loss was ultimately caused by the fraudsters, not Halifaxs acts or 
omissions. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman