DRN-1705434
 
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC said she was unlikely to be approved for a 
mortgage she was interested in applying for. She says her credit commitment arrears should 
be considered in the context of why they occurred, and her overall circumstances show 
she's a low risk. 
What happened
Mrs F's personal circumstances were such that some of her credit commitments were in 
arrears in early 2019. I won't go into the details of that here to protect her privacy but I've 
listened to the calls, and read and understood everything.
Mrs F spoke to Barclays about potentially obtaining a mortgage. She was told she was 
unlikely to be approved due to her recent poor credit issues, but was offered the opportunity 
for an application to be credit scored and passed to an underwriter. Mrs F decided not to as 
she didn't want the credit search impacting on her already problematic credit score.
Mrs F was approved for a mortgage by a non-mainstream lender at a much higher rate, and 
contacted her MP about what had happened. She says her MP recommended she contact 
Experian, and Experian told her she needed to challenge the decision with Barclays. 
Barclays explained the decision had been consistent with its policy and rejected her 
complaint.
Our investigator said Barclays hadn't done anything wrong as it had its lending policy, and it 
had explained she was unlikely to be successful before a credit search was recorded on her 
credit file. Mrs F didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs F wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered 
the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I'm not going to comment on whether Barclays would grant a mortgage to a young person 
with limited credit history, a small deposit and limited work experience, nor am I going to 
comment on why Barclays allows Mrs F to have a credit card with a reasonable credit limit 
but not a mortgage. Neither of those is relevant to whether or not Barclays should grant Mrs 
F the mortgage she wants.
It's not my role to tell a lender whether (or not) to lend to a particular consumer. Each lender 
has its own risk appetite. Mainstream lenders like Barclays generally don't like to see recent 
adverse credit when considering mortgage applications. Other (non-mainstream) lenders are willing to overlook that, but balanced against that is they then normally charge a higher 
interest rate to reflect the perceived higher risk (even if Mrs F doesnt see herself that way).
I appreciate Mrs F feels Barclays is being unfair. But lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement 
for the banks. Barclays doesn't have to offer a bespoke service to Mrs F to consider her 
application more holistically, it simply has to apply its lending policy fairly.
In this case, Barclays applied its lending criteria to Mrs Fs proposal. These criteria are 
commercially sensitive, so were unable to disclose them to Mrs F, but Im satisfied Barclays 
fairly applied them to the proposal. It follows that Im satisfied Barclays didnt act 
unreasonably in warning Mrs F that any mortgage application at that time was likely to be 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman