DRN-2619352
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the impact his credit card account with Barclays Bank UK PLC t/a 
Barclaycard has had on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H says his credit card account closed in 2016. However, despite the account closing he 
had arranged to pay off the outstanding amount via a payment plan with Barclaycard. When 
Mr H checked his credit file, he noticed his credit score was significantly low and this was 
because of this credit card account. Mr H says he was promised numerous times that having 
a repayment plan wouldnt impact his credit score. But when signing up to view his credit 
report, he noticed a default marker which Mr H says isnt right and would like for it to be 
removed.
Barclaycard say they agreed multiple repayment plans with Mr H dating back to 2011. And 
that the last repayment plan was cancelled in October 2015 as payments were missed. A 
default notice was issued in May 2016 and a default was then registered in June 2016. In 
March 2020, Mr H stopped making payments towards the account. Barclaycard said given 
Mr H experienced financial difficulties for a significant period, they arranged for this 
Barclaycard entry and the default from 2016 to be removed from his credit file.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. In summary, she said Barclaycard had made 
Mr H aware of the need to continue making the repayments. And that they had set out the 
consequences if he failed to make the repayments. She also said she thought it was fair for 
Barclaycard to remove their entry from Mr Hs credit file due to the difficulties he had 
experienced.
Mr H disagreed. He said the record hasnt been removed from his credit file. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say Im sorry to hear of the stress this issue has caused Mr H. And Im also 
sorry to learn of the financial difficulty Mr H has experienced in the last few years.
I can see from the information provided, that Mr H contacted Barclaycard in 2011 to let them 
know he was in financial difficulties. At this point, the notes show Barclaycard carried out an 
assessment of Mr Hs income and expenditure and agreed a repayment plan to allow him to 
repay the balance in an affordable way.
 
From 2011 to 2016 multiple repayment plans were set up between Mr H and Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard have provided us with copies of some of the correspondence that was sent to 
Mr H each time a repayment plan was set up. I can see these letters confirm that missed 
payments would be reported to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
I appreciate Mr H told Barclaycard he didnt agree to the repayment plans and that he didnt 
receive any letters from 2011. But Mr H has told us that he was promised numerous times 
that a repayment plan wouldnt impact his credit file. In addition to this, I can see from the 
account history statements, that there were times Mr H was making the required payments 
under the arrangements with Barclaycard and these were quite specific amounts. 
Additionally, the contact notes Barclaycard have sent us also make reference to the 
conversations they had with Mr H between 2011 and 2016 about the agreed payments hed 
make towards the account due to his financial circumstance. So, having considered all of 
this, I think its reasonable to believe its likely Mr H was aware of the repayments required 
from him. 
From the information available to me, I can see Barclaycard were sending letters about the 
repayment plans to the address they held for Mr H at the time. I appreciate Mr H says he 
never received the letters and its not entirely clear why that is. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest this was as a result of Barclaycards actions.
Barclaycard have provided us with a letter that was sent to Mr H in December 2014 
confirming a new arrangement to pay of £30 a month. The letter explained this arrangement 
would remain effective as long as all the reduced monthly payments were made on time and 
in full. Barclaycard have provided Mr Hs account statements and I can see Mr H made 
payments of £30 from December 2014 to August 2015. I cant see from the statements that 
Mr H made a payment in September and October 2015, so the payment plan was then 
cancelled in October. 
Following this, a default notice was issued in May 2016 and I can see this was sent to the 
address Barclaycard held for Mr H at that time. It set out that Mr H needed to make a 
payment of a certain amount by 17 June 2016. And failure to make this payment could result 
in further action being taken such as the account will be closed and details of the default on 
the account will be registered with CRAs. As the payment wasnt made, the default was 
subsequently registered in June 2016 and the account was closed.
I appreciate Mr H has since told us the default letter was sent to his previous address. I can 
see from the contact notes Mr H contacted Barclaycard in July 2016 to ask why he had 
received a default letter as he had already agreed an arrangement to pay of £30. Based on 
the available evidence, I think its likely Mr H was aware of Barclaycards intention to apply a 
default marker. 
Barclaycard have said theyve deleted their entry from Mr Hs credit file, so Mr H should no 
longer be able to see this on his credit report. Barclaycard have provided us with a 
screenshot showing the record has been deleted. Weve asked Mr H for a copy of his credit 
file so we can check this entry no longer appears. However, Mr H hasnt provided us with 
this. And has instead told us the entry does still appear. I appreciate everything Mr H has 
told us and I can understand his worry about a default appearing on his credit file. But in the 
absence of any documentary evidence from Mr H, I dont think its unreasonable for me to 
rely on what Barclaycard have provided and the reassurance they have provided us with. 
For the avoidance of doubt, if the record hasnt been removed as Barclaycard have said, 
then Id expect it to be removed.
Mr H has questioned the validity of the information provided by Barclaycard as he says the 
evidence provided by Barclaycard wouldnt hold up in court. I understand Mr Hs concerns, 
but Ive got no reason to doubt the validity of the information thats been given to us.Barclaycard have told us that although the account shouldnt be appearing on Mr Hs credit 
file, he is still liable for the outstanding amount. Theyve sent us internal screenshots to show 
that as of March 2020, the outstanding amount was £3,587.53. Barclaycard have told us Mr 
H can set up a repayment plan to repay this amount. But theyve also said they may transfer 
the debt to a third party to help recover it - Barclaycard have told us if they decide to do this, 
the account shouldnt be reported by the third party. Mr H should contact Barclaycard directly 
should he wish to arrange a repayment plan for the outstanding amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman