DRN-2876295
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) paid the maturity 
settlement of a joint endowment policy without her knowledge or consent.
What happened
Miss M took out an endowment policy in 1999 along with her partner at the time. The policy 
matured in 2008 but by then Miss M and her partner had separated.
Miss M has said that in 2008 the independent financial adviser (IFA) that had sold her the 
policy had informed her of its maturity, but she and her ex-partner couldnt agree an 
amicable split of the maturity proceeds. She has said the IFA had told her that if an 
agreement between them couldnt be reached the maturity proceeds could be held by Aviva 
until one of them passed away. Miss M has said she wasnt in need of the money so didnt 
try to reach an agreement with her ex-partner and decided not to claim the maturity 
proceeds thinking that Aviva would keep the money as her IFA had told her.
In 2019 Miss Ms ex-partner passed away at which point Miss M contacted Aviva to claim the 
proceeds of the matured endowment policy. However, she was told by Aviva the policy had 
already been paid out around the time of maturity.
Miss M has said this was a surprise to her as she had spent all these years thinking it was 
still being held by Aviva. She has said if the cheque had been made out to her and her ex- 
partner, in joint names, it shouldnt have been cashed as there was no joint account in 
existence, and she hadnt authorised any such payment. She therefore feels Aviva made a 
mistake in allowing only one of the names on the policy to take the full maturity sum.
Given how long ago the policy matured and was paid out Aviva wasnt able to provide much 
information. It could confirm however that the maturity cheque was issued on 30 December 
2008 made payable to both Miss M and her ex-partner and it was cashed on 7 January 2009 
for just over £11,000. It also found internal records on its system that showed the IFA had 
called Aviva on 5 January 2009 informing Aviva of the separation and stating the cheque 
would be returned. The records also showed an instruction received after the IFAs call 
stating that the cheque should not be cancelled, but there were no names attributed to this 
instruction.
Aviva stated that given the instructions it had received after the IFA had called and the fact 
that no other instruction was received before the cheque was issued, it had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and had issued the cheque correctly.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
wasnt satisfied there was a specific process at maturity of the policy and felt that Aviva 
should have required a signed form and identification of the payees before the payment was 
issued  none of which Aviva has been able to provide. He was also not satisfied with the 
note recorded after the IFAs message on 5 January 2009 and was of the view this wasnt a 
legitimate instruction.
Overall, he felt Aviva hadnt done enough to act after it had been advised of the separation 
and dispute by the IFA on 5 January 2009. He was of the view that this call was enough to 
prompt Aviva to ask for authority from both parties before proceeding with the payment of 
the policy. And he felt Aviva should have frozen the funds if it wasnt able to cancel the 
cheque.
I issued my provisional findings in early June 2021 where I explained why I didnt agree with 
the initial assessment by the investigator and why I thought the complaint couldnt be upheld. 
An extract is set out below and forms part pf this final decision:
The key question for me to decide is whether Aviva followed the correct procedures upon the 
maturity of the policy and in light of the information it was provided with at the time.
From the information provided to me it isnt clear whether Miss M had informed Aviva of the 
separation when it happened or whether she told it she had moved out of the address she 
had shared with her partner. It seems to me that she didnt and so this shared address would 
have been the only one Aviva held for Miss M. Therefore, without her telling it of the changes 
Aviva wouldnt have known that the proceeds had to be split. However, if Miss M did tell 
Aviva of the changes in her circumstances in good time before the policy matured this may 
impact the outcome of this final decision. However, I would need to see documented 
evidence of this before the final decision is made.
Currently, as Aviva wasnt aware of the separation when the policy was due to mature it 
seems reasonable to me at this stage that it sent the obligatory maturity letter to the only 
address it had on its system. While it cant provide the completed maturity form, because of 
how long ago the policy matured, Aviva has provided me with a copy of a maturity letter that 
would have been sent out at the time. On page four of this, section two section B, it clearly 
states that unless instructed otherwise Aviva will automatically issue a cheque and as the 
policy was held in joint name the cheque would be made out to both individuals.
Aviva has said it didnt receive a response to this letter and Miss M hasnt said she 
responded to it detailing an alternative payment method. Therefore, in line with the letter and 
terms and conditions of the policy the cheque was issued automatically to the joint policy 
holders and to the address it held on file.
Given Miss M didnt inform Aviva of any changes in her circumstances which naturally would 
have affected the payment of the joint policy its not unreasonable that Aviva didnt know any 
changes in the payment had to be made.
Further to this, the notes that Aviva has provided from its internal systems in relation to this 
policy state the following:
30/12/2008  internal record  cheque payment sent according to records
05/01/2009  internal records  IFA advised PHs have separated. Theyre sending 
the cheque back and will let us know when they decide how much money to send to 
each individually. Please cancel cheque and await confirmation of how to proceed.
05/01/2009  internal records  Please ignore this memo and END the case. This 
cheque should not be cancelled.
07/01/2009  internal records  cheque showing as cashed.
It can be seen that the adviser told Aviva that Miss M and the joint holder of the policy had 
separated on 5 January 2009, but this was after Aviva had sent the maturity cheque out. The 
adviser confirmed the cheque would be returned rather than destroyed. However, the 
cheque wasnt returned and was cashed two days later so its not unreasonable that Aviva assumed both parties had come to an arrangement and took no further action.
I also dont think Aviva acted incorrectly when it didnt cancel the cheque. Firstly, it would 
appear the IFA had said the cheque would be returned. And also, its likely cancelling the 
cheque would have taken several days because as the cheque had already been issued 
Aviva would have contacted the relevant bank
As well as this, the note on Avivas system which instructs the cheque should not cancelled 
must be taken into account. I know this cant be attributed to anyone which is poor record 
keeping on the part of Aviva and its vagueness makes deciphering this point difficult, but it 
does seem to be an instruction which Aviva followed. Because of how long ago this 
happened there isnt anyone that can shed more light on this particular issue but I would say 
it isnt reasonable to expect Aviva to have questioned this instruction in light of the earlier 
communication by the IFA. It isnt for Aviva to question any arrangements made by policy 
holder. All it can do is act upon instructions which it would appear is what happened here.
Regarding the cheque, Aviva has provided the account number and sort code for the 
account along with the cheque number and payee information confirming it was made 
payable to the joint names. Again, as mentioned above if no additional payment instruction 
were provided to Aviva there is no way it would have known to change how the policy was to 
be paid as established at the time it was taken. Also, while I know Miss M says there was no 
joint account and only a business account it is possible this is how the cheque was cashed  
but as I have no further details about this point I cant be certain.
However, in any event to whom the cheque was made payable is largely irrelevant, because 
the focus of this is whether Aviva had any reason to act differently in paying out the 
proceeds. And as I have stated I dont think it did. It was Miss Ms responsibility to inform 
Aviva of any changes in her circumstances which would have affected the policy she held 
with it at the time and I think its reasonable this policy should have been something she 
thought about at that time. Also, Aviva was told about the separation after it had happened 
and crucially after the cheque has been issued. Aviva did request different payment 
instructions be provided to it if relevant before the policy matured but nothing was submitted 
so it seems to have acted in line with its terms and conditions and automatically issued the 
cheque to both the policy holders. And given the cheque wasnt returned when the IFA had 
told Aviva it would be its not unreasonable it thought there were no further problems and 
therefore took no further action.
Aviva accepted my provisional findings, but Miss M did not. She provided the following 
comments:
She had moved shortly after the policy was taken out so Aviva would not be relying 
on the shared address from when the policy was taken out. She feels its reasonable 
that Aviva should have obtained both addresses to ensure both parties had access to 
the policy funds. She feels Aviva was aware she wasnt at the address it held yet 
made no attempt to contact her. 
The policy was administered through Miss Ms IFA who was aware of her new 
contact details so she assumed these would have been passed to Aviva.
She disagrees it was reasonable for Aviva to assume these issues were resolved. It 
had been advised two days before the cheque was cashed that there was a dispute 
by the IFA yet a following note states the cheque should be paid. This second 
instruction should not be treated as valid as there is no record of where it originated 
from. The delay in cancelling a cheque is not relevant. Aviva was aware of a dispute and 
should not have allowed the cheque to be cashed. By attempting to stop the cheque 
they would have been protecting both policyholders interests. 
It is not acceptable to allow poor record-keeping to be an excuse to incorrectly make 
a payment. As the dispute had not been settled, the IFA would not have made this 
call. Miss M also said if it had been the IFA, this would have been recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Aviva has confirmed it doesnt hold any further records apart from what was sent to us and 
its also confirmed that if a different address was held for Miss M then it would have used this 
and written to both addresses. I have seen only one other address in Avivas internal system 
notes so I can only assume Aviva wrote to this address as well but didnt receive a response 
so paid the maturity value of the policy in accordance with its terms and conditions as set out 
in the joint documentation. 
Miss M hasnt specifically stated that she informed Aviva of a change of address but rather 
Aviva should have attempted to get a new address for her. But this isnt realistic unless 
Aviva had been informed of the change in circumstances before the policy matured and 
neither party can provide confirmation of this.
Also Miss M seems to be relying on her IFA having told Aviva of the separation but it is 
wrong for her to assume this. It was her responsibility to inform Aviva of this, or at the very 
least check the IFA had told Aviva about the change in circumstances in good time  not 
after the policy had matured and the cheque had been issued because it was obviously too 
late by that point.
I disagree that the second note recorded in Avivas systems should be treated as invalid. As 
I have already commented this is bad record keeping on the part of Aviva but at the same 
time it cant be ignored. These were instructions to Aviva which Aviva followed. And again, 
unless Aviva were told anything different it acted in accordance with the information it had at 
the time. Aviva was also expecting the cheque to be returned so when this didnt happen its 
reasonable Aviva thought any personal issues between the policy holders were no longer a 
problem - it wasnt for Aviva to check and pursue the policyholders to find out their personal 
arrangements  this was for the policyholders to tell Aviva.
Ultimately it doesnt appear to me that Miss M made Aviva aware of the change in her 
circumstances before the policy matured. If she had there is no record of this so I cant 
safely conclude Aviva acted incorrectly. Aviva sent out the maturity letters in accordance 
with the information it had. Aviva was told of a change after the policy matured and the 
cheque was issued but understandably this was too late. It was also told that the cheque 
would be returned because of the separation but again this never happened so it wasnt for 
Aviva to assume the policy holders were still having problems.
Fundamentally it was the responsibility of Miss M, or anyone else she deferred this to 
responsibility to, to ensure Aviva was fully informed of all correct details. And given 
everything I have seen I dont think she did this. Therefore, taking everything into account 
there just isnt enough for me to conclude Aviva acted incorrectly at the point the policy matured and therefore it would be unfair of me to instruct it to pay out the maturity proceeds 
again.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman