DRN-3691339
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a personal loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B arranged the loan over the internet in January 2011 and was sold PPI at the same 
time.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B applied for the PPI over the internet. So there was no direct contact with any 
Santander staff. As such Im satisfied that this was a non-advised sale, meaning that 
Santander did not have to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs needs.
However, Santander still needed to provide Mrs B with sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Santander has provided screenshots of what Mrs B would have seen as she progressed 
through the online application process.
There is a section for PPI which gives basic information about the main benefits of the policy 
and then asks an applicant to choose yes or no to either request or decline the cover. 
There is nothing on this page about the limitations and exclusions contained within the 
policy.
A few pages further along, there is summary of the policy. It explains that the summary only 
provides the key facts and that the full terms and conditions can be found in the policy 
document  but it doesnt provide a link to the policy document. 
Neither of these pages contains information about pre-existing medical conditions being 
excluded. This would have been important information for Mrs B as she had a number of 
health conditions at the time.
I also agree with our adjudicator that the cost information is insufficient. From what I can see, 
the cost of the policy is not mentioned during the online process and it does not refer an 
applicant to where they can find this information.
I take the view that Mrs B would not have purchased the policy if she had been aware that 
her pre-existing medical conditions werent covered. I dont think shed have found the rest of 
the benefits of the PPI sufficiently attractive to outweigh the shortcomings in her particular 
case. If she had been aware of the cost, she would not have found it value for money in her 
particular circumstances. It follows that I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. So Santander should:
Pay Mrs B the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8%.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
It can also deduct any amounts its already paid regarding commission and profit 
share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay fair 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman