DRN-1319771
 
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc. Their 
complaint falls under four broad areas:
Until around 2014, as premier customers Mr and Mrs S had become accustomed to 
three-monthly visits to their home by a senior HSBC representative. Since then 
HSBC hasn't invited them to meet and discuss matters, instead relying on letters 
from it and its solicitors.
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs S were looking to repay the HSBC mortgage by 
raising funds elsewhere, but shortly before completion they were told they'd have to 
repay their unsecured loan as well due to HSBC's all monies charge.
In 2017 HSBC threatened legal action to take possession of Mr and Mrs S' property 
which they say led to them accepting an offer below market value. They say it also 
meant they had to accept the terms of that offer which didn't give them enough time 
to source a suitable rental property to move into, so they're now renting somewhere 
unsuitable for their needs.
When the mortgage was redeemed in 2018 HSBC didn't insist the loan be repaid, 
which means Mr and Mrs S were left paying interest on that loan whilst having 
surplus funds in their current account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an interest-only mortgage with HSBC for which they'd signed an 'all 
monies charge'. The mortgage totalled around £368,000 and the term ran until the end of 
2008.
In April 2007 Mr and Mrs S borrowed £335,000 (unconnected to their mortgage) on a short 
term basis that was due to be repaid in August 2008. That money was to build a cottage in 
their garden which Mr and Mrs S moved into. I understand the titles were split, finance was 
raised against the cottage with a different lender and the cottage was then sold in 2014 for 
£650,000.
After the mortgage term had come to an end, HSBC agreed a further term to allow them time 
to sell the property. Mr and Mrs S signed two mortgage offers on 12 April 2009 which set out 
that their total mortgage of just over £366,000 was to be held on an interest-only basis and 
was fully repayable in one year and six months.The new mortgage term came to an end in November 2010 and since then the HSBC notes 
show Mr and Mrs S have been promising to repay the mortgage and loan debts (totalling 
around £700,000) by selling their property. It seems Mr and Mrs S' property had been on the 
market (on and off) since 2010, with the latest listing being in March 2018 for £850,000.
In July 2017 HSBC issued final demand letters to Mr and Mrs S saying if the debt 
wasn't repaid then it would be looking to enforce its security. Mr and Mrs S said they'd be 
marketing their property in the spring of 2018 and would then repay the debt.
From the archived information available it seems Mr and Mrs S' property went on the market 
in March 2018 for £850,000 and in July 2018 they told HSBC they'd accepted an offer of 
£830,000, with an anticipated completion date in October 2018. In September 2018 Mr S 
emailed HSBC to confirm matters were progressing with exchange due in late October / 
early November and completion before end of the year. 
The sale went through, but in error HSBC didn't include the separate loan account on the 
redemption statement so Mr and Mrs S' solicitors only repaid the mortgage.
In the months after completion HSBC spoke to Mr and Mrs S about their intentions with the 
loan account as the balance was overdue. Mr and Mrs S said they were in rented 
accommodation, so they didn't want to use their available funds of £425,000 to repay the 
loan at that time as they'd need to use those to buy a new property if their tenancy wasn't 
extended.
Unhappy with everything that happened Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC. It rejected the 
main thrust of their complaint, but offered £500 compensation for the error it made in not 
including the loan in the 2018 redemption statement. Our investigator thought that was a fair 
offer. Mr and Mrs S didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Were 
impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this means is that 
we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions 
on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked and answered.
I've noted Mr and Mrs S' comments about there being no meeting with them or with 
HSBC whilst we've been investigating the complaint. As I said, we're an informal service and 
we decide cases based on the information put forward by the parties. If we feel we need 
anything further from either side then we'll ask for it, and if we feel either party has struggled 
to express themselves in writing then we give the option for them to record their submissions 
orally, either by sending us a voice recording, or by speaking to the investigator assigned to 
the complaint. Having considered everything I'm satisfied I can fairly decide this complaint 
without needing any further information or oral submissions from HSBC or Mr and Mrs S.I know from Mr and Mrs S' recent submissions that they consider this to be a very 
straightforward case and they're right, it is. But what they're not right about is the outcome. 
It's a very straightforward case where HSBC only made one mistake, and that was not 
including the loan in the 2018 redemption statement.
It's not my role to tell HSBC how to run its business. If HSBC chose to no longer offer routine 
home visits to Mr and Mrs S then that was its decision to make. I wouldn't interfere with that. 
At the time those visits were withdrawn Mr and Mrs S were already many years late in 
repaying the debts they had with HSBC, and had been stating their intentions to sell their 
house for many years. The records show that back in 2010 Mr and Mrs S asked for another 
two years, saying they'd accepted an offer the year before but it had fallen through. The 
notes say they were "aggressively marketing the property again..." The request was turned 
down.
Over the years HSBC agreed to accept payments for a three-month period at a time to allow 
the property to be sold, with the letters about that being clear that the debt repayment was 
overdue and "It is your responsibility to ensure that the full balance is repaid as soon as 
possible." HSBC didn't have to allow Mr and Mrs S that time to try to sell their property,  as it 
was within its rights to seek possession of the property as soon as the term ended in 2010. It 
also didn't have to allow the situation to continue to drift indefinitely.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs S were looking to raise funds against the property to repay the 
HSBC mortgage and to reduce the loan. Whilst Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that they only 
found out just before they were due to complete that HSBC would only release its charge if 
the loan was repaid as well I can't hold HSBC liable for that. The first HSBC knew about the 
intention to repay the mortgage was on 1 November 2016 when Mr and Mrs S' solicitor 
asked for a redemption statement. HSBC provided the redemption statement (including the 
loan debt) on 7 November 2016 so there was no delay by HSBC in letting Mr and Mrs S 
know about its requirements. I understand Mr and Mrs S incurred costs due to the abortive 
attempt to refinance the property, but I can't hold HSBC liable for that for the reason I've 
explained. And as HSBC held an 'all monies charge' it was allowed to insist Mr and Mrs S 
repaid all the debts they held with it before releasing the charge it held on their property.
It doesn't matter how long Mr and Mrs S had been HSBC's customers, or that they'd never 
missed any payments (other than the most important ones, of course, which were to fully 
repay the debts they owed within the timeframe set out in the contracts they entered into). 
HSBC had no reason to meet with Mr and Mrs S to discuss their overdue debts, or to 
discuss other options with them. The simple fact is Mr and Mrs S had promised to repay over 
£700,000 they'd borrowed from HSBC, but they still hadn't despite so many years having 
passed since the debts became overdue. As I said, HSBC was within its rights to pursue 
possession of Mr and Mrs S' property back in 2010, when the mortgage term ended. That 
things continued for so long shows remarkable patience and goodwill on the part of HSBC.
But by 2017 that patience had run out and HSBC decided it had to move things forward as 
the property was still unsold, and the debts were still outstanding. HSBC notified them of its 
intentions mid-2017 and Mr and Mrs S put their property back on the market in Spring 2018. 
The archived advertisement and brochure from the time indicates it was on the market for 
£850,000. In July 2018 an offer was accepted for £830,000, a sale which eventually 
completed a few months later. Mr and Mrs S have said their house was sold at well below 
market value but in reality a house is only worth what a buyer is willing to pay for it. Here the 
property had been on and off the market for nearly a decade without a sale completing, and 
this time it was on the market for about four months before the accepted offer was made.
In any event, HSBC did nothing wrong in insisting the debt was repaid and if the only means 
Mr and Mrs S had to do that was to sell the property then that was what they needed to do. As I said, HSBC had been remarkably patient for many years and had allowed plenty of time 
for Mr and Mrs S to sell their property without those time pressures.
The only error HSBC made, as I said, was in not including the loan debt in the redemption 
figure it provided to the solicitor in 2018. And for that omission HSBC offered Mr and Mrs S 
£500 compensation which I consider is a very fair offer. I say this because there was no 
reason why Mr and Mrs S couldn't have repaid the loan themselves from the surplus funds if 
that's what they wanted to do. Just because HSBC didn't insist Mr and Mrs S' solicitor do it 
as part of the removal of its charge, doesn't mean the loan had to continue to run (incurring 
interest). All Mr and Mrs S had to do was contact HSBC once the mortgage was repaid and 
say they wanted to also repay the loan, and that could have been dealt with. It would be 
highly inappropriate for me to order HSBC to cover any additional interest Mr and Mr S 
incurred on the loan due to them choosing not to do that.
In summary, I'm satisfied:
HSBC did nothing wrong in no longer offering home visits to Mr and Mrs S, and it 
didn't have to meet to discuss matters (rather than relying on letters from it and its 
solicitor).
HSBC did nothing wrong in November 2016 when it told Mr and Mrs S that they 
would also have to repay the loan, and it did so as soon as it was aware of their 
intentions.
HSBC had been patient in not pursuing matters sooner and had given plenty of 
notice over the years that the debt needed to be repaid. So it did nothing wrong 
when it decided to move things forward in 2017. HSBC isn't responsible for the sale 
price    Mr and Mrs S achieved, nor is it responsible for the rental property (or 
location and functionality of it) they moved into.
HSBC made a mistake when it didn't include the loan account in the 2018 
redemption statement, but the £500 it's already offered for that omission is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint in the sense I consider HSBC UK Bank Plc made a fair offer of 
compensation. I leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide if now - on reflection - they wish to 
contact HSBC directly to accept that offer. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject 
my decision before 19 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman