The complaint
Mr B complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd gave him incorrect information 
when he applied for a mortgage which meant he incurred unnecessary costs.
What happened
Mr B wanted to purchase a property under a shared ownership scheme. He approached 
London and Country to assist him with obtaining a mortgage for him. The first property Mr B 
wanted to buy fell through, so he looked at alternative properties. 
Mr B found a new property and London and Country provided him with a "decision in 
principle" in November 2019 which gave an idea of how much he may be able to borrow 
based on the information he'd previously provided. Mr B paid £300 to reserve the property. 
However, the rental payment due under this particular shared ownership scheme was higher 
than that on the original property and London and Country hadn't taken this into account. 
This meant London and Country was unable to secure a mortgage for Mr B for the amount 
he needed and the purchase fell through. Mr B complained to London and Country.
London and Country agreed its advisor should've checked whether the rental amount was 
different for the new property. So it offered to refund the property reservation fee of £300 and 
pay Mr B a further £100 in compensation. But it wasn't willing to pay anything further as it 
said Mr B had proceeded without a formal mortgage offer in place.
Mr B didn't accept this and referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. Our investigator thought that what London and Country had offered was fair, 
so he didn't think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr B didn't agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it's been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked at the decision in principle provided by London and Country and I think it makes it 
clear that any borrowing will still be subject to a number of other factors, and is not a 
guaranteed acceptance of a mortgage. There were still a number of reasons why an 
application for borrowing may be declined. So it's always possible that Mr B wouldn't have 
been able to secure funding for other reasons.
However, I also agree London and Country should've checked with Mr B to see if anything 
had changed since he first spoke with them before issuing the decision in principle. And had 
it done so, it would've found out that Mr B wouldn't likely be able to borrow the amount he 
DRN-1748939wanted to as the rental payment required for the new property was higher than originally 
discussed. 
Our role is to put right any financial loss caused by a business' mistake. In this case London 
and Country has already refunded the property reservation fee of £300 that Mr B paid. And 
Mr B has confirmed that the money he paid to solicitors has also been refunded. In his initial 
complaint to London and Country Mr B said he wanted the difference between what he was 
told he could borrow and what he could borrow. But I don't think it's fair to ask London and 
Country to pay this, as this isn't something he's lost out on as it was money he wanted to 
borrow. Considering everything, I'm satisfied that London and Country has compensated Mr 
B for any financial loss it has caused.
I can also make an award for the distress and inconvenience Mr B has suffered because of 
the mistake. It must've been frustrating for Mr B to find out he couldn't borrow what he 
needed to. But it seems London and Country told him relatively soon after it realised he 
wasn't able to borrow what he needed. And taking this into account, I think the £100 it's 
offered is fair in the circumstances.
Mr B was also concerned that this may've had an effect on his credit history. But London and 
Country has confirmed it didn't carry out any credit checks or submit any applications when 
issuing the decision in principle. So I'm satisfied this has had no impact on his credit file.
Mr B has also told us he's concerned  this mistake may happen again. But it isn't our role to 
tell businesses to change their practices. That's for the industry regulator. We can only put 
right individual mistakes businesses have made. And as I've explained, I'm satisfied London 
and Country's offer does that in this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that London and Country's offer is fair and reasonable and I don't require 
it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman