DRN-4405232
The complaint
Mr C complains about advice he says he received from an authorised individual at True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM). He says he received unsuitable advice to 
switch his pension and has suffered a loss as a result.
What happened
Mr C brought his complaint to us jointly with his wife about advice they say they received 
from Mr H to switch their pensions from Prudential to a fund managed by another TPWM 
entity (the True Potential fund). This decision relates only to Mr C and his pension.
Mr C says that Mr H had been his adviser for some time with another regulated firm. But at 
the end of June 2021, Mr H contacted him to say that he was moving to TPWM. Mr C says 
that Mr H advised him to move his pension to the True Potential fund because he said it had 
a better performance than his existing Prudential fund and would allow Mr H to continue to 
service it and benefit from access to an online portal.
Mr C says that he held two meetings with Mr H and that, based on Mr Hs advice, he agreed 
to make the transfer. Mr C says that Mr H carried out all the arrangements for the transfer 
without his further involvement.
Mr C complained to TPWM a short time later when he says he realised the True Potential 
fund was riskier and had performed much worse than the Prudential fund.
TPWM says that Mr H had only provided information  not advice  about the True Potential 
fund. It says Mr C had submitted the application to transfer the fund after receiving a direct 
marketing offer sent to him by TPWM. TPWM said that in making the application, Mr C 
clearly acknowledged that it was a non-advised sale as this was clear from the paperwork. 
So it said that it wasnt responsible for Mr Cs unhappiness with the fund performance.
The broad agreed timeline is as follows:
2 July 2021  Mr C received a direct marketing offer email from TPWM relating to the 
True Potential fund.
14 July 2021  Mr Cs client portal with TPWM was activated. Mr C says this was 
done during the second of two meetings with Mr H (the other taking place a week 
earlier). TPWM doesnt dispute that this meeting took place on 14 July 2021.
20 July 2021  Mr C emailed Mr H to say:
We have discussed the transfer scenario to True Potential following last 
weeks meeting and I would like you to proceed with the transfers of both 
mine and [Mrs Cs] prudential pensions. Let me know if you require any other 
specific instruction.
22 July 2021  The application to switch Mr Cs pension was submitted online. IT 
records show that this was submitted via Mr Hs computer at his office.
TPWM says the fact that the application was submitted using Mr Hs computer doesnt 
indicate that this was an advised sale or that Mr H arranged it. TPWM says it asked Mr H 
about the circumstances of the application and he confirmed that he allowed Mr C to submit 
the application via his work computer because of issues that Mr C was having with his 
mobile phone making the application. TPWM also says that Mr H wouldnt have been able to 
submit the application without Mr Cs password details.
Mr C doesnt agree. He insists that Mr H advised him to switch funds and that he had no 
involvement in the application after the 20 July 2021 email which he says evidences his 
agreement to Mr Hs recommendation. He says he never used Mr Hs computer to submit 
the application and was working at his own business premises on 22 July 2021. Mr C says 
that Mr H created and had access to their client log in details from the previous meeting on 
14 July 2021 and so used these to submit the application. Mr C also says that Mr H was 
motivated to enact the transfers in order to earn a significant commission from TPWM.
When the matter was referred to our service, one of our investigators felt it should be upheld. 
But, after TPWM raised jurisdiction objections, it was looked at by another investigator. That 
investigator decided that we did have jurisdiction to consider the complaint because, in his 
view, TPWM was responsible for arranging the pension switch. But, looking at the merits of 
the complaint, he did not think it should be upheld because the True Potential fund was 
broadly similar to the previous Prudential fund in risk profile and therefore wasnt unsuitable 
for Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree and I then reviewed matters. I issued a provisional decision on 29 
September 2023. My provisional decision was that Mr H had likely given Mr C advice and 
made arrangements for the pension switch. I also said that, although Mr H had failed to 
follow certain procedures, TPWM was still responsible for his acts by way of apparent 
authority. And I didnt think the advice to switch pensions was suitable and so TPWM should 
pay Mr C compensation for his losses.
Mr C agreed with my provisional decision but TPWM didnt. In summary, it said:
Mr H cant be said to have advised Mr C as no suitability report was prepared. This 
was a requirement for suitable advice under the regulatory rules as well as Mr Hs 
contract with TPWM.
If Mr H provided the advice without a suitability report, then he was in breach of his 
contract with TPWM. And just as would be the case with appointed representatives, 
TPWM is not responsible for acts of Mr H where he has acted outside of the authority 
conferred on him.
Mr C would have known that advice was only authorised by TPWM if it was 
accompanied by a suitability report. This was made clear in TPWMs Terms of 
Business which stated All charges will be agreed with you in advance and set out in 
your Personal Illustration, Suitability Report and Application Form.
Mr C was not a layman  he was involved in financial services and would have 
known that advice  if it was authorised by TPWM - needed to be documented. Mr C 
also didnt follow data protection procedures if he shared log in details with Mr H. So 
this all made the accuracy of his version of events doubtful.  Mr C received text messages and emails that referred to the opportunity as a direct 
offer -and would have known it was non-advised when he created the portal log in 
details.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive looked at all the evidence and arguments. Having done so, I still believe that we have 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint. My findings regarding jurisdiction remain as in my 
provisional decision, but I have supplemented them (where necessary) to deal with the 
additional points made by TPWM.
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at. 
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that: 
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
At the time of the events complained about, TPWM was an authorised person (also referred 
to as a firm in regulators rules). That means it could carry out regulated activities without 
being in breach of the general prohibition.
TPWM had a number of advisers, one of which was Mr H who joined TPWM in March 2021 
and was registered with the regulator as a person dealing with customers for TPWM. 
Mr H was a self-employed agent of TPWM.  This means Mr H worked under the terms of an 
agency agreement with TPWM rather than as its employee.  It isnt in dispute that Mr H was 
authorised by TPWM to advise on investments on its behalf. 
So, taking into account the above, to decide whether TPWM is responsible for this 
complaint, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr C has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did TPWM accept responsibility for those acts?
What is the complaint?
Mr Cs complaint is about the advice he says he was given by Mr H to switch his pension 
from Prudential to the True Potential fund. I think its reasonable to say that Mr C is unhappy with all acts undertaken by Mr H in this regard, including the arrangements he says Mr H 
made to complete the investment. 
I know that Mr C has also said hes unhappy about the True Potential fund performance. But 
fund performance isnt something I can look at. But, clearly, if TPWM is responsible for the 
complaint and the advice was unsuitable, the fund performance will impact compensation.
Were the acts Mr C complains about done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
This is the crux of the current dispute. 
Regulated activities are specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO) and include:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment (Article 53 RAO).
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or 
relevant investment (Article 25 RAO).
At the time, the regulated activity of advising on investments was defined in Article 53 RAO 
as follows:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor,  and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The PERG section of the regulators handbook sets out guidance from the FCA on the 
difference between advice and information. At the time, PERG 8.28.1G said:
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures.
TPWM says this was a non-advised sale and that Mr C submitted the application himself 
after receiving information from Mr H and the direct marketing offer. TPWM largely relies on 
Mr Hs testimony and the fact that the application was made in a secure portal in its rejection 
of the complaint. 
However, having looked at all the evidence, I think Mr Cs assertion that he was advised to 
switch his funds is more compelling  and that Mr H did more than just provide information.
There is no formal paperwork evidencing advice. In its response to my provisional decision, 
TPWM says this is crucial because the regulatory rules in the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) set out that advice must be given by way of a suitability report. But 
COBS sets out what firms should do  not what constitutes advice under the RAO. As set 
out above, no element of the definition of advice in Article 53 requires a suitability letter or for the advice to be set out in writing. And I think the circumstances need to be looked at as a 
whole in making a decision about what happened and what version of the events is more 
likely  Mr Hs or Mr Cs. 
I find TPWMs reliance on Mr Hs testimony about matters to be disproportionate in light of 
the verifiable facts about how the application was processed. TPWM acknowledges that its 
records show that Mr Hs computer was used to submit the pension switch application via 
the portal. I dont find it credible that this was because Mr C had no other means to submit 
the application and so made his way to Mr Hs office to use Mr Hs computer to do so. This is 
what Mr H alleges happened. This simply doesnt make sense to me  especially as Mr C 
has provided copies of emails he was sending at the same time as the application was being 
processed. As Mr C has said to us:
Please see the attached e mail that I sent on that same morning at 10.50am to one 
of the finance companies that we deal with.
This e mail was sent from my work computer in my office at 10.50am. This means 
that I would have needed to send this e mail and then drive to [Mr Hs] office, log in to 
the client site and then complete a 33 page application form (see attached ) all in the 
duration of four minutes. As you can see from the e mail my colleague (and only full 
time employee) was on holiday at the time and I would not have scheduled to be out 
of the office at any point that week.
Mr Cs email to Mr H dated 20 July 2021 is also helpful. He refers to discussions taking place 
about the funds and ends it: let me know if you require any other specific instruction. This 
indicates that matters were left with Mr H  there is certainly no reply from Mr H to say that 
Mr C needed to complete the application himself and that he was not the person to receive 
any instructions at all as this was a non-advised sale.
TPWM says that Mr C would have seen some disclaimers about the pension switch being a 
non-advised sale when signing up to the portal and having received emails. That may or 
may not be the case  but I ultimately think Mr H submitted the application for the switch (not 
Mr C) and so Mr C wont have seen any of the disclaimers on the application at the time of 
the specific application or had the time to appreciate the implications of any disclaimers he 
might have previously seen. 
Mr C says that Mr H was motivated to recommend and complete the switch because he 
stood to earn a significant commission. TPWM has not confirmed how much Mr H stood to 
earn from the switch. Despite my repeated requests for information about this, TPWM has 
simply said that as a result of Mr Cs dissatisfaction it did not pay Mr H any money for the 
switch. But that indicates that Mr H would have (if Mr C had not complained) been due some 
form of payment and one of the metrics for calculating this was the fund provider. So, 
although I cant draw any firm conclusions about what Mr Hs motivations may or may not 
have been, I think the fact that he would benefit financially from Mr Cs switch to the True 
Potential fund cant be ignored and was likely a factor in his actions.    
Mr C says that he created and shared his portal log in details with Mr H at the meeting on 14 
July 2021. Whilst its not good practice to share log in details in this way, I think its plausible 
that this is what happened. And this is what allowed Mr H to complete submit the application 
on 22 July 2021 for Mr C.
Overall, taking into account all of the above, I find Mr Cs testimony about what happened at 
the time and the circumstances surrounding the pension switch more credible than Mr Hs. 
And so I am of the view that Mr H recommended the pension switch. And that he also 
carried out the arrangements for the switch. Giving advice and making arrangements for the pension switch are both regulated activities. As such, Im satisfied that this complaint 
involves a regulated activity.
Did TPWM accept responsibility for those acts?
The first thing to establish when answering this question is what capacity Mr H was acting. 
At the time in 2021, Mr H still had approved roles with another firm. However, he was 
authorised by TPWM in March 2021 and I have no reason to doubt that Mr H told Mr C that 
hed moved to TPWM by the time of the meetings in July 2021 especially as TPWM says 
that bulk letters were sent to Mr Hs clients about the move on 30 June 2021. So, Im 
satisfied that in relation to the matters that Mr C has complained about, Mr H was acting in 
the capacity as an authorised person with TPWM - not any other firm.
But that doesnt mean that TPWM is automatically liable for Mr Hs acts. I must still look at 
whether TPWM accepted responsibility for the acts in question. Doing this requires analysis 
of common law agency principles.
Actual authority
I would usually review TPWMs whole agency contract with Mr H to assess exactly what it 
authorised Mr H to do. We havent been provided with a full copy of the contract  but 
TPWM has provided extracts. And those extracts appear to show that it required its agents 
to set out any advice by way of a suitability letter. No suitability letter was produced by Mr H 
for Mr C and so I think this was a breach of the agency agreement. As such, I cant conclude 
that there was actual authority in this case. To this extent, I agree with TPWMs submissions 
following my provisional decision.
Apparent authority
But notwithstanding that Mr Hs actions were not authorised in his agreement with TPWM, it 
could still have given apparent authority. This arises when the principal represents to third 
parties through words or conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the 
third party reasonably relies upon that representation. The essence of apparent authority 
isnt concerned with what was actually agreed between the parties (for example by way of 
the agency agreement), but rather, how the relationship between those parties appeared to 
third parties. In this complaint, Im concerned with how the relationship appeared to Mr C.
The case law indicates that I must look to see whether:
TPWM made a representation to Mr C that Mr H had TPWMs authority to act on its 
behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about; and
Mr C relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now complains 
about.
Did TPWM represent to Mr C that Mr H had the relevant authority?
Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this complaint, TPWM did represent to Mr C that 
Mr H had the necessary authority. I say this because:
TPWM sent or allowed Mr H to send bulk letters on 30 June 2021 setting out that he 
had moved to TPWM and could provide financial advice in that capacity. TPWM authorised Mr H to give investment advice on its behalf. TPWM arranged for 
Mr H to appear on the FCA register in respect of TPWM.
TPWM held itself out as an independent financial adviser firm that gave advice and 
offered products from the whole of the market including the True Potential fund. 
No information was provided to clients that only advice set out in suitability letters 
was approved by TPWM. I dont think the fact that TPWMs Terms of Business refer 
to its charges being set out in suitability reports would reasonably have put Mr C on 
notice that Mr H needed to provide him with a suitability report in order for TPWM to 
be responsible for Mr Hs acts.
TPWM used Mr Hs relationship with Mr C to send the direct marketing offer to Mr C 
which Mr H then advised Mr C about.
It was in TPWMs interest for the general public, including Mr C to understand that it 
was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am satisfied 
that TPWM intended Mr C to act on its representation that Mr H was its financial 
adviser.
Did Mr C rely on TPWMs representations?
Clearly, Mr H did not provide written advice relating to the fund switch, but that doesnt mean 
that he didnt recommend it or that Mr C didnt rely on that recommendation as one being 
made by Mr H as a TPWM adviser. 
Ive taken account of the fact that Mr C is himself FCA authorised. But I understand that this 
is in relation to motor vehicle finance.  And I dont think this means he knew or ought to have 
known about the documentation required for pension advice under the regulatory rules. 
Mr H was Mr Cs trusted adviser and I think that, following being told that Mr H had moved to 
TPWM, Mr C proceeded on the basis that Mr H was acting in every respect as the agent of 
TPWM with authority from TPWM so to act. And I think Mr C would have trusted Mr H was 
acting in his best interests when making any recommendation  even one made orally rather 
than in writing. It is on that basis that Mr C proceeded to instruct Mr H to complete the fund 
switch in his email of 20 July 2021.
My decision on jurisdiction
So, for the above reasons, my conclusion there was apparent authority in this case. As such, 
TPWM is responsible for the advice and arrangements that Mr C has complained about and 
our service does have jurisdiction to consider this complaint and so Ive gone on to consider 
the merits below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, TPWM has not provided any comments on the merits of 
the complaint. So my findings below remain the same.Im satisfied that Mr H advised Mr C switch his pension from Prudential to the True Potential 
fund. So was this advice suitable?
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes include 
pension funds.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. In 
summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: the consumers 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their financial 
situation; and their investment objectives.
As mentioned above - Ive taken account of the fact that Mr C is himself FCA authorised in 
relation to motor vehicle finance. But he didnt have experience in pension investments and I 
think he would have relied on advice from Mr H about switching funds. 
Mr C had some other assets, but this was his only pension provision. He was approaching 
retirement and I dont think its disputed that he was someone who had a cautious attitude to 
risk.
Mr Hs advice was clearly deficient in the manner in which it was given  there was no fact 
find or suitability letter - but that doesnt necessarily mean that the recommendation to switch 
to the True Potential fund was unsuitable.
Our investigator believed the True Potential fund to be of a broadly similar cautious profile to 
Mr Cs previous Prudential fund. TPWM is also of this view and says that the respective fund 
performance differs only because no two funds are invested in exactly the same way and the 
True Potential fund is unitised rather than smoothed. 
Mr C says he wasnt advised that the True Potential fund was a unitised fund and that it is 
actually higher risk than the Prudential fund. Hes provided a letter from his current adviser to 
support this latter assertion  although I note that the new adviser has based his opinion on 
a slightly different Prudential fund.  
Ive looked at these arguments and also taken account of the fact that when Mr C began to 
express dissatisfaction with the True Potential fund, TPWM said that another of its advisers 
told Mr C in October 2021 that the True Potential fund was riskier than was suitable for 
someone in Mr Cs position. So my view is that its reasonable to conclude that the True Potential fund wasnt suitable for Mr C. And I think its important to point out that even if I 
accept that the two funds were broadly similar, there is still the issue of why it would be in 
Mr Cs best interests to switch from one fund to another similar fund? In other words, I cant 
see any material benefit to the recommendation. 
So, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the recommendation to switch funds was 
unsuitable.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Had he not received the unsuitable advice, I think Mr C would have remained with his 
previous provider, however I cant be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the 
previous policy would have been worth. Im satisfied what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when 
he invested.
Im aware that Mr C has been unhappy with the True Potential fund for some time and yet 
only recently switched away from the fund back to the Prudential. So Ive considered 
whether he has failed to mitigate his losses. 
But Mr C was invested in a mainstream fund that was intended to be a long term 
investment. Mr C has told us that he was waiting to see how his complaint progressed and 
was also wary of doing things without seeking advice from Mr Hs previous firm which he 
initially found difficult to obtain. Overall, I dont think his delay in switching out of the True 
Potential fund should impact the compensation calculation.
What must TPWM do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, TPWM must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
TPWM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, TPWM should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If TPWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either TPWM or Mr C dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr C 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
TPWM should also pay Mr C £150 for the undoubted distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by the unsuitable advice and his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TPWM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. TPWM should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
True 
Potential 
fundNo longer in 
forceNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr C's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. TPWM should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the True Potential fund should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the True Potential fund should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TPWM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, TPWM will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr C's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean that Mr C 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman