DRN-3297917
Complaint
Miss F has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) didnt properly explain the 
effect an arrangement to repay her overdraft could have on her ability to obtain credit in the 
future.
Background
Miss F switched her RBS current account to another bank using the current account 
switching service in 2019. At the time Miss F switched her account she had an overdrawn 
balance on her RBS account and as she no longer had her main account with RBS the 
overdraft balance became repayable in full. Miss F called RBS to discuss her options to 
repay the outstanding balance and was offered an arrangement to repay the overdraft over 
14 months. Miss F accepted the arrangement to pay and completed it, but she was later 
unhappy to learn that the arrangement may have impacted her ability to obtain credit. 
Miss F complained to RBS about what had happened. RBS didnt agree that it had done 
anything wrong. Miss F remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service.   
Miss Fs complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that RBS 
had done anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly. Miss F disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider her case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss F was told that RBS would report that her overdraft had entered 
an arrangement to repay on her credit file before she agreed to repay her overdraft with such 
an arrangement. I know that Miss F says that this wasnt enough and I can appreciate why 
she believes that RBS could have been provided her with more information about the longer 
term impact this would have on her ability to obtain credit in the future. 
But the truth is each lender will have its own criteria for assessing the information held by 
credit reference agencies and the weight it places on any arrangements to pay, when 
deciding whether to lend. And some lenders will view the same information differently from 
others. 
So while I appreciate what RBS said in its final response letter about not being asked how 
specific credit reference agencies would report matters, I dont think that it was in a position 
to advise on this or more crucially tell Miss F how other lenders would view the arrangement 
to pay when assessing any application for credit. All RBS could do is tell Miss F that it would 
record the arrangement to repay on her credit file, thats what it did here and Miss F did 
agree to the arrangement.
Im sorry to hear that Miss F is having difficulty obtaining a mortgage. But if I were to ask 
RBS to amend Miss Fs credit file in the way that she has asked, in circumstances where 
she used the arrangement, this would require RBS to record that Miss Fs overdraft was 
settled in full and more than a year before it was. And I think that it would be unfair to RBS 
and Miss F, unreasonable in its logic and inaccurate if I asked RBS to amend Miss Fs credit 
file in this way  as that clearly doesnt reflect what actually happened here. 
By asking RBS to do this, Id be asking it to record inaccurate information. I think that 
recording this wholly inaccurate information would arguably be counterproductive and not in 
Miss Fs interests or that of any future lender   especially as it would place Miss Fs in a 
position where it would appear as though she didnt have to repay this debt with the 
assistance of an arrangement to pay (when she did) and potentially mislead a future lender 
about this. 
So overall and having considered everything and while I do sympathise with Miss Fs 
position, I dont think that RBS has acted unfairly and Ive not been persuaded to uphold 
Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss F. But I hope that 
shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman