DRN-3613885
The complaint
Mr H complains that Asgard Financial Services Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says he 
couldnt afford the loan and it shouldnt have been lent.
What happened
Asgard lent a loan for £3,500 in December 2016, the loan was repaid over 24 monthly 
instalments of £203.11. Mr H said the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation and a 
holiday. Theres still an outstanding balance on the loan.
Our adjudicator thought Asgard didnt do enough before agreeing to lend and asked it to 
remove interest fees and charges so that Mr H only repays the principal amount he 
borrowed. Asgard disagreed that its checks werent enough but offered to accept a payment 
of £3,217 which includes a write off £283 from the principal borrowed.
Our adjudicator put the offer to Mr H and explained that the offer from Asgard was more 
generous than she had recommended. Mr H didnt accept the offer, he said he had a severe 
gambling problem and Asgard should write off any outstanding balance.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Asgards checks suggested that Mr H was reliant on credit based on the number and 
frequency of high cost loans showing on his credit file. It would have been reasonable for 
Asgard to have taken its checks further in the circumstances. Ive taken into account 
Asgards point that Mr Hs loans were in order and he was taking out this loan to consolidate 
his other borrowing. However, I think it was have been reasonable for Asgard to have been 
curious about why Mr H needed to borrow so often even though it looked like he was 
maintain his repayments.
Further checks would likely have shown Mr H was gambling and Asgard shouldnt have lent 
in the circumstances.
When we think a complaint like this should be upheld, it is usually fair for the consumer to 
repay the capital they borrowed, and our recommendation is for the interest, fees and 
charges to be removed. This is what the adjudicator has recommended and Asgard has 
made an offer that puts Mr H in a position better than the adjudicators recommendation.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs point that because of his severe gambling he should 
never have been given this loan. As stated above further checks would likely have revealed 
this to Asgard but Im also mindful that it didnt carry out those checks and so didnt see the 
gambling on Mr Hs bank statement, I havent seen evidence to show that it had actual 
knowledge of Mr Hs gambling at the time, for example Mr H telling Asgard he had a 
gambling problem, that may have made the lending reckless. 
From what I can see, Mr H has been making the loan repayments and the overall 
circumstances dont lead me to think the capital write off will be appropriate in these 
circumstances.
I think Asgards offer is fair in the circumstances and will remind Asgard to treat Mr H 
positively in financial difficulty and agree a suitable repayment plan if Mr H needs it.
In summary, when reconstructing Mr Hs circumstances at the time, Asgard shouldnt have 
lent to him but in my opinion the lending wasnt reckless and its fair for Mr H to repay the 
capital. Mr H can contact Asgard directly to accept the offer.
Putting things right
Asgard should ensure interest, fees and charges arent added to Mr Hs loan amount and it 
shouldnt charge sums it has offered to write off.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Asgard Financial Services 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman