DRN-4310618
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited defaulted his accounts after writing 
to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr J had student loans with Erudio. He deferred repayment each year, as his income didnt 
meet the threshold to begin making payments. Erudio had been contacting him by email.
In 2020, Mr J told Erudio that they had an old address on file where he was not residing. He 
was happy for them to continue writing to that address for the moment as it was a family 
members address, so he knew his mail was getting sent somewhere. But he was moving 
soon, so hed need to update them with his correct address. However, Mr J forgot to update 
Erudio, and in the meantime the family members property was sold on.
In 2021, Erudio wrote to the old address about deferment. It didnt hear back and the 
deferment period ended. The new residents returned Erudios post to it as Mr J did not live 
there, but Erudio continued to write to that address. It did not perform any checks or traces 
to see where Mr J really lived, nor contact Mr J by phone or email. It sent the default notice 
to the address it had been informed Mr J was not contactable at, and defaulted the accounts.
Eventually, Mr J found out what had happened and complained. Erudio said it was Mr Js 
responsibility to update his address, and it was now its process to communicate by post. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to look at things 
afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr J and Erudio a provisional decision on 17 August 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
My role here is to look at not just the letter of the law and regulations, but also at what is 
good industry practice and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It seems that both sides share some responsibility for what happened here. I accept Mr J 
made an oversight and forgot to update his address. Its an understandable mistake  one 
might not remember every single company in ones life when moving home. But it did cause 
Erudio to write to the wrong address.
Mr J received correspondence about deferment by email for some years, so it seems he was 
expecting to hear from Erudio the same way in 2021. But Erudio sent things by post instead. 
I accept that if the address had been correct, Mr J wouldve most likely got the letters. But 
I also accept Mr J made a reasonable assumption that he would be contacted by email as he 
had in previous years, whereas Erudio didnt communicate in the expected manner. I think 
that Erudios unannounced change in communication method also factored into Mr Js 
deferment being missed.
Erudio did not take any reasonable steps to check that it was writing to the correct address, 
or that Mr J had actually received its correspondence. Indeed, Mr J has provided a recording 
of his call with Erudio from the previous year, where he explained that the address on file 
wasnt the right one, he was moving shortly, and he was only keeping it on file for now so he 
knew his post was going somewhere until hed moved. Erudios notes also reflect that the 
address needed updating once hed moved. 
But even when Erudio hadnt had any reply from Mr J and critical deadlines were looming, it 
continued to send letters without checking things. Mr J had deferred every year and this was 
most unusual, and Erudio knew it was in its customers best interests to fulfil his deferment. 
Erudio could have checked Mr Js address  a standard industry practice, or spoken to Mr J 
by email  as it had done successfully in previous years, or called him. Erudio may not be 
strictly required to use contact methods other than post. But I dont think its actions or 
inactions here constituted good industry practice or a reasonable approach to the situation, 
not least when it knew the address on file was not up to date. It wouldve been much more 
reasonable for Erudio to check Mr Js address or try to reach him by email or phone.
Perhaps most importantly, the new residents returned Erudios post multiple times, so Erudio 
reasonably knew it had been writing to the wrong address. Yet it went on to write to there 
and there only, even sending the default notice to that wrong address and going on to 
terminate the accounts, while knowing that Mr J most likely didnt know what was going on 
and hadnt been given the proper opportunity to get things back on track. It follows that this 
default was unfair.
I acknowledge that Erudio did send Mr J a couple of text messages around the start of the 
deferment period. But these mostly just set out that Erudio had an online portal. And given 
how serious the situation became  not least when the accounts were approaching a default 
and Erudio knew its key correspondence had been going to the wrong address  Erudio 
should have done more to make Mr J aware of what was going on.
So while I agree that Mr J shouldve updated his address, I accept that was a genuine 
oversight. And I think Erudio also caused things to go wrong  especially when it knowingly 
sent key correspondence to the wrong address. The question, then, is what I think might 
have happened differently had things gone right.
Mr J has provided evidence showing that his income was below the threshold in 2021 and 
afterwards. And he successfully deferred every year before this incident. So I think that had 
Mr J received Erudios key correspondence, he would have applied for deferment.
Since both sides share some responsibility for things going wrong, I think the fair way to 
resolve this is to treat the situation as if things had gone right  i.e. to put the accounts in the 
position they wouldve been in had Mr J been aware of their status and been able to apply 
for deferment.Another way to think about this is that a key tenet of these student loans is that Mr J would 
be able to defer repayments until he had a certain income. I must consider whether it would 
be fair for Mr J to be made to repay his loans before he had the appropriate income to do so, 
just because of a potential oversight on his part, compounded by Erudios lack of reasonable 
care or forbearance. I dont think that would be fair in this case. I think its much fairer to try 
to put things back to the way they shouldve been.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. Ill talk about their responses below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J agreed with the provisional decision.
Erudio did not. It raised a number of arguments.
Erudio pointed out that it used to send the deferment application by post, too. That may well 
be, but the fact remains that it stopped sending the emails it used to. It also pointed out that 
Mr J had been late in the past even when he was sent correspondence by email, so it said 
we could not argue beyond doubt that the lack of emails was the main cause of him missing 
the deadline in 2021. But Erudio has misread the provisional decision. I never said that the 
lack of emails was the main cause of Mr J missing the deadline, let alone beyond doubt. 
I simply noted that it was likely a factor, which is still the case.
Erudio argued that because Mr J had deferred on time in prior years, it showed he knew 
what the deferment deadline was in 2021. Its argument is poor. For one thing, it pointed out 
just above that Mr J was late in the past  which would suggest, by its own reasoning, that 
he was not certain of the deadline every year. And just because he remembered to defer in 
previous years, it does not follow that he was fully aware of the deadline for 2021. It also 
does not relieve Erudio of its own obligations, such as in keeping him updated.
Erudio argued that because its initial deferment correspondence was not returned, it 
suggests Mr J received it. Again, this argument is not logical. That was not Mr Js up-to-date 
address  which Erudio knew at the time  and Erudio has provided no evidence to show 
that Mr J actually received that post. Its more likely that the residents of that address simply 
did not return the post at first. Or its possible that Erudio failed to log the returned post at 
first, or that it got lost in the postal system either on the way out or the way back, and so on. 
I am not satisfied that Mr J received that deferment correspondence. And I find that by the 
time post started getting returned not long after, Erudio was reasonably aware that he was 
not getting its letters. So it acted unfairly and unreasonably in continuing to knowingly send 
all its correspondence to the wrong address and in defaulting the account while it reasonably 
knew its customer hadnt been getting the proper updates.
Erudio said that the only reason mail failed to reach Mr J is because he failed to update his 
address. But that is clearly untrue. Hed told Erudio the address was out of date, Erudio 
failed to take any reasonable measures to get the up-to-date address or to contact Mr J 
directly by phone or email, and most importantly Erudio did not act when its post was 
returned and it reasonably knew Mr J couldnt be contacted there.Erudio argued that its only responsibility was to issue a deferment form. But once again, this 
is a very poor argument. It still has the other responsibilities and obligations of a financial 
business, including things like treating customers fairly and sending key correspondence to 
the right address when its informed it has been using the wrong one.
Erudio said its not its process to trace addresses. I am disappointed to see it still trying 
arguments such as this. As I noted before, it could have called or emailed. And it should be 
familiar with our services approach by now, as well as with its obligations to treat customers 
fairly. It should avoid putting processes over people, and it cannot treat customers unfairly 
just because its process is to do so. There will be occasions where it must depart from its 
process in order to treat a customer fairly.
Erudio disagreed with my depiction of these loans, arguing that customers can choose not to 
defer. But it remains the case that deferment is a key feature of these student loans. Indeed, 
deferment was even made effectively automatic for newer student loans. And the function of 
the deferment is such that customers dont have to make repayments until they have the 
appropriate income. The fact that customers can choose to pay anyway does not change 
that. And in a case about student loans, its only right that I take the full context of these 
loans into account.
Erudio argued the account defaulted because Mr J didnt make payments. But it also 
defaulted because Erudio knowingly sent the default notice and other key correspondence to 
the wrong address and didnt take any reasonable efforts to make sure Mr J knew what was 
happening, in breach of its obligations.
Erudio said it had sent evidence that Mr J knew he didnt have a payment plan in place. This 
does not appear to be in the evidence it sent. But regardless, I dont see that Mr J needed to 
have a payment plan in place as he was eligible to defer.
Lastly, Erudio argued that Mr J failed in his obligations. I already accepted that he failed to 
update his address. But Erudio also failed in its obligations, and in a significant fashion  
ultimately, it defaulted an account after knowingly sending the required correspondence to 
the wrong address. So things need to be put right.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to take such actions as are necessary to rewind the 
current position and effectively reinstate Mr Js loans. This includes honouring the original 
terms and conditions (which may involve writing off the loans when Mr J reaches a particular 
age), unwinding the default and arrears and ceasing any current action to pursue them, and 
removing any related negative information from Mr Js credit file.
It also means allowing Mr J to make backdated deferment applications covering 2021 to 
now, with a new deadline starting from at least two months from the date of this final 
decision. And it means Erudio considering and processing these applications as if they had 
been made before the original deferment deadlines. I would advise Mr J to make sure that 
he has given Erudio his latest contact details now, to make sure he applies within the new 
deadline, and to look out for correspondence about the matter.My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint, and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman