DRN-3833827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc provided atrocious service after Mr G tried to make a 
high-value transfer from their current account - its process is not fit for purpose.
What happened
Mr G wanted to move £19,984.64 from his Santander current account to a savings account 
on 3 August 2022. The transaction was flagged for additional checks by Santanders fraud 
prevention team. There followed a number of unsuccessful calls between the parties over 
the next four days. As the amount was credited back to Mr Gs account on 4 August 2022, 
he tried to set up the transfer again and at this stage his account was blocked. 
Mr G says he had to spend an inordinate amount of time resolving the issue. And he 
suffered further inconvenience and embarrassment when his card declined at three different 
retailers weeks later. Mrs G also had to make a credit card payment from another source on 
Mr Gs behalf. He avoided any charges but he is concerned about the potential impact the 
situation might have had on his creditworthiness. 
He adds that he offered to discuss ways Santander could improve the customer experience 
in such circumstances but it ignored this offer. This is not the first time he has had problems 
with large value transfers. He says the £80 compensation Santander paid to him is not 
enough and asks for £205 to cover not just this problem, but also a similar situation in June 
that he did not complain about.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He said Santander had made no 
error by stopping the payment for further checks and blocking the account, but it should have 
processed the payment by the end of the next working day, as it said it would. However, he 
felt £80 compensation fairly recognised the inconvenience and the loss of interest this delay 
caused. He explained the block wasnt lifted as Mr G did not complete the call on 6 August 
2022. He said as Mrs G made Mr Gs credit card payment there was no impact on his credit 
file and we do not consider potential impacts when we make awards.
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans review. They said the investigators assessment 
was not comprehensive, but selective. They set out a number of issues they feel the 
investigator either ignored, omitted or captured inaccurately. These included the fact Mr G 
initiated all the calls and only hung up once on 4 August 2022; the investigators stated 48 
hours to process the payment is nonsense; the sequence of events on 3 August 2022 has 
been misunderstood; Mr G did not misunderstand what he was told on the phone; Mr G did 
not fail to comply with any of the banks requests  had he done so the payment would not 
have gone ahead on 6 August 2022. They feel Santander did not warn them about the 
implications of the block and the impact it had on them has not been duly considered by this 
service. They complained not only to request more compensation but to see if the customer 
experience could be improved without compromising the banks needs. Finally, they think 
compensation should be awarded based on a binding scale to avoid any lack of clarity about 
why certain amounts are awarded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and thought carefully about all of Mr Gs comments. I mean no discourtesy by 
this, but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules 
allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
I have listened to the calls between Mr G and Santander from 3, 4 and 6 August 2022.
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Santander was late to review Mr Gs payment, it has accepted this 
and has apologised. But I cant find fault in the fact the payment was initially stopped for 
further checks and a block later applied to the account. The bank is obliged to have systems 
and processes in place to protect its customers money. I can see Mr G found the questions 
he had to answer very frustrating, and akin to interrogation, but that does not mean I can find 
they were asked in error. I find the banks staff always tried to explain why it had to ask for 
the information.
I agree with the investigators analysis that Mr G was not promised a call back on the 3 
August 2022 so I do not find a bank failing there. I can see that Mr G experienced delays as 
he was transferred between departments on the calls and I understand this was frustrating, 
but equally I can see Santander acknowledged this would have caused Mr G some 
inconvenience in its final response letter. 
Similarly Mr G feels strongly that Santander did not warn him that the block was not being 
lifted. But I dont think he gave it the chance to as the call had to be terminated by the bank 
after it had warned it would do this if Mr G continued to treat the adviser as he was. I find it 
was the fact he opted not to change his approach, and complete the call, that meant the 
block was not lifted at this stage. And when considering the impact the block remaining had 
on him (the embarrassment of three declined transactions in different retailers and the 
related inconvenience) I have to consider that he could have prevented this had he 
continued with the call. The adviser had made clear at the outset that once all security 
checks were complete the block could be lifted.
The call on 6 August 2022 was difficult but I have seen no evidence that the bank was doing 
anything other than following its standard processes. I understand Mr G feels the banks 
policies and processes for managing high value transfers are sub-standard, but that is not 
within our remit. It is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to review the 
process, polices and systems across the industry. Our role is to check that the bank has 
followed its processes and policies and applied them correctly in the circumstances of an 
individual complaint. 
With regards Mr Gs point about potential damage to his credit rating, as this did not 
materialise it is not something we would consider. That is not to say I dont understand the 
point he is making, rather to clarify that we look to make sure the bank makes good any 
actual detriment it has caused, and there was no damage to his file as he made alternative 
payment arrangements.
With regards the appropriate level of compensation I agree the £80 Santander has paid is 
fair. I have thought about the impact and duration of the issue in August 2022 and the 
inconvenience this caused, also the fact Mr G lost two days interest. Mr G said there should be a binding scale to regulate compensation awards. As our investigator has already sent a 
link to how we approach payments for distress and inconvenience I will not repeat that here.
I cannot consider compensation for the June incident he references as he did not complain 
to Santander about this. If he decides to, and is unhappy with its response, he can bring that 
to this service as a separate complaint.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman