DRN-3794479
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA UW) approved 
repairer caused damage to the rear windscreen and rear parking camera on his car when 
they repaired it following a claim under his after the event insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in an accident. Its not clear who he contacted to make a claim, but 
it is clear he was sold an after the event insurance policy underwritten by AA UW and 
claimed under this for the repairs to his car. 
When Mr D got his car back after the repairs he found that the heated rear windscreen 
wasnt working properly, as only the bottom few bars came on. And the rear parking camera 
wasnt working at all. He contacted the repairer straight away and took the car back in the 
next day. The repairer was busy and Mr D had to go back a couple more times. But, 
eventually, the manager at the repairer said these problems were nothing to do with the 
repairs and were probably down to wear and tear. 
Mr D complained to AA UW. They checked with their repairer and told Mr D they agreed with 
them that the problems were nothing to do with the repairs. They told him he could provide 
them with evidence that their repairer caused the problems, which they would then consider.
Mr D asked us to consider his complaint about AA UW. One of our investigators did this. 
Initially, she didnt think it should be upheld, as she didnt feel there was sufficient evidence 
to show that AA UWs repairer had done something wrong. But, when Mr D provided a 
photograph of a damaged wire running from the dashboard to the rear parking camera, 
which he felt was damaged by the repairer, she changed her mind and said his complaint 
should be upheld. She said AA UW should pay for the heated rear windscreen and rear 
parking camera to be repaired and pay Mr D £100 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
AA UW doesnt agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theyve suggested the problems with the rear windscreen and the parking camera could be 
down to a previous repair following a claim under Mr Ds car insurance policy or due to wear 
and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. AA UW are responsible for the actions of their 
approved repairer. And, Im quite surprised AA UW havent at least accepted it is most likely 
the repairer caused the problems with the parking camera on Mr Ds car. I say this because 
the repairs their repairer carried out involved work around the area where the wiring for both 
the heated rear windscreen and rear parking camera is located. And Mr D has provided a 
photograph showing a damaged wire to the parking camera. AA UW have also suggested it 
was nearly two months between the repairs to Mr Ds car and him raising the issues with the 
rear windscreen and parking camera. But, whilst it may have been nearly two months before 
he raised the issues with AA UW, it is clear from what Mr D has said that he raised them with 
the repairer more or less straight away. 
Im persuaded by Mr Ds testimony that the heated rear windscreen and the rear parking 
camera were working fine following previous repairs and in the run up to the accident, which 
led to the repairs to his car by AA UWs approved repairer. I say this because I dont think it 
is at all likely that neither were working and Mr D had just left them and then happened to 
have an accident and saw the opportunity to get them fixed without it costing him anything. It 
is much more likely that in carrying out fairly extensive repairs to Mr Ds car, AA UWs 
repairer damaged or disturbed wires to both the rear windscreen and rear parking camera 
and that this led to them not working. I think the photograph Mr D has provided of the 
damaged wire to the parking camera supports this view. 
And I agree with our investigator that the problems caused by AAs repairer caused Mr D 
distress and inconvenience and that he should receive compensation to reflect this. And I 
think the £100 she suggested for this is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that because I think AA UWs approved repairer was responsible for the 
fact the heated rear windscreen and rear parking camera on Mr Ds car stopped working 
properly, I consider, as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ds complaint, AA UW 
should pay for them to be fixed. 
Mr D has told me he fixed the camera by buying a new one and using the wire with it to 
replace the damaged wire. Hes said this cost £30 and he bought a new camera as he 
wasnt sure whether the existing camera would work after hed replaced the wire. Hes 
explained he could have bought just the wire for £15. Mr D has said hell provide the invoice 
for the camera. But, as the amount is small and I accept his testimony on this point, I think 
AA UW should pay him £15 to cover the cost of the new wire. 
Mr D has told me he hasnt had the heated rear window fixed, as he isnt able to do this 
himself. So, AA UW can either arrange for this to be done for Mr D and pay for it or they can 
get Mr D to provide an estimate for the work and then approve this and reimburse Mr D 
when hes paid for it and sent them a copy of the invoice. 
AA UW must also pay Mr D £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced as a result of the problems with the heated rear window and parking camera. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint about AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited and require them to do what Ive set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman