DRN-3903737
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T say Calpe Insurance Company Limited wrongly avoided Mrs Ts motor 
insurance policy, asked her to refund its full outlay on another drivers claim and failed to 
advise her of the policys standard £3,000 excess. 
What happened
Mr T (a named driver on the policy) had an accident in August 2021 that he accepted was 
his fault. In checking the claim, Calpe found that Mrs T hadnt declared his motoring offences 
from 2019. Mrs T said Mr T was driving on an international licence at the time. When the 
DVLA issued a UK driving licence to him without any comment in 2020, they assumed it had 
disregarded the offences, so they didnt need to be declared. 
Calpe said Mrs T had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the facts, so it avoided the 
policy (treated it as though it had never existed) and retained the premium. It required Mrs T 
to refund the cost of the claim, which was £3,702,15. Mrs T and Mr T said they had no idea 
that the excess payable on the policy was £3,000, and they said no-one had explained what 
the extra £702.15 was for. They also said they were misinformed about the policy being valid 
(when that wasnt correct) so they cancelled their new policy only to find theyd been driving 
uninsured. They said theyd faced huge stress and anxiety due to Calpes actions.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She thought Mrs T had been 
asked a clear question about motoring offences when buying the policy - and hadnt taken 
reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation. The investigator thought it was a 
qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  as she thought Calpe had shown it wouldnt 
have offered cover had it known the facts. She also thought Mrs T had acted deliberately or 
recklessly, as she was aware of Mr Ts motoring offences. She said the issue of not being 
told about the policy excess was irrelevant, as Mrs T was liable for the full cost of the claim. 
In subsequent correspondence, Mrs T said she thought either the DVLA or Calpe was to 
blame for what had happened. She said Calpe should have checked with her after the policy 
was taken out that it was all in order. She repeated that she and Mr T would never have 
agreed to a £3,000 policy excess - and that they werent aware his 2019 offences counted. 
She also queried how the investigator could have said Calpe had done nothing wrong, when 
one of its advisors had told Mrs T the policy was valid when it wasnt.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, partly upholding the complaint, along the following lines:
CIDRA
I said that under CIDRA, an insurer has to show that there was a misrepresentation and that 
the consumer failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts. It then has to 
show that the misrepresentation made a difference to the insurer (that it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation). If so, I said the action the insurer can take depends on whether it can 
show the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, as opposed to merely careless. 
I said I thought Calpe had shown that Mrs T was asked a clear question about motoring 
offences when she applied for the policy in 2020 - and that she gave an inaccurate answer. 
The question asked was whether she or Mr T had any driving convictions, endorsements, 
penalties, disqualifications or bans in the previous five years. Mr T had three endorsements 
on his driving licence from 2019. As Mrs T knew about them but didnt declare them, I said I 
didnt think she took reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation. I also said I didnt 
think it was  reasonable for Mrs T to assume that Mr Ts recent motoring offences didnt 
count, instead of checking with the DVLA or Calpe.
In terms of whether Mrs T had made a qualifying misrepresentation, I noted that Calpe had 
said it wouldnt have offered the policy to her and Mr T had it known about the offences. But I 
didnt think Calpe had shown that it wouldnt have offered cover had it known the facts. 
Without sufficient evidence on that point, I didnt think Calpe was able to show there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. I said that unless an insurer can show it wouldnt have offered 
cover to a consumer, under CIDRA it cant take any action against that consumer. So, based 
on the details I had at the time, I said I didnt think Calpe was entitled to avoid the policy.
The policy excess
I noted that Calpes outlay on the claim was £3,702.15. I said if the policy was in place, it 
was for Calpe to cover the claims cost - minus any agreed policy excess. I noted that the 
agreed policy excess in this case was £3,000. Although Mrs T said she and Mr T were 
unaware of that, I said I thought the policy excess was made clear to them from the outset.
I noted that the Welcome letter sent to Mrs T by the broker when she bought the policy said 
she should read the enclosed Statement of Fact carefully - and let the broker know if there 
was anything incorrect in it, as it could lead to the policy being cancelled or avoided. I noted 
that the Statement of Fact said Mr T had no offences on his driving record and that the policy 
excess was £3,000. It also required Mrs T to confirm in a declaration that she was aware she 
had to pay the £3,000 policy excess on every claim made on the policy. The broker also 
provided the Policy Schedule. It also referred to the £3,000 policy excess, as did the brokers 
Statement of Demands and Needs. I noted that a sheet in that document headed Important 
note said - in capital letters and bold print.- that the policy excess was £3,000. 
 
I said I didnt think a reasonable consumer could have failed to note all the references to the 
£3,000 policy excess. I pointed out that the policy booklet explains that Calpe provides value 
for money by asking consumers to pay a higher than usual policy excess. I said I thought 
Mrs T could have asked the broker about alternative options and that I didnt think the broker 
/ Calpe could have done any more to highlight the excess. So I said that in my opinion it was 
fair and reasonable (and in line with the policys terms and conditions) for Calpe to require 
Mrs T to pay the £3,000 policy excess towards the full cost of the claim. 
Responsibility for the situation
I said I didnt agree with Mrs T that either Calpe or the DVLA was responsible for the position 
she and Mr T had found themselves in. I said I thought Calpe was entitled to rely on the 
details Mrs T gave it about driving offences in response to a clear question about them. I 
also said I thought most reasonable consumers would have checked with the DVLA about 
whether recent driving offences committed in the UK on an international driving licence 
counted or not. I said I couldnt see why Mrs T and Mr T thought it was reasonable simply to 
assume that such offences didnt need to be declared, when a consumers driving history is 
so important in assessing risk for insurance purposes. 
Poor serviceI noted that Calpes file showed that on 29 November 2021 the broker told Mr T that cover 
was still in place, as at that point the broker was unaware of the policy avoidance. But on 3 
December 2012, the broker advised that there had been no cover in place from 1 December 
2021. I also noted that Mrs T said she didnt get the email Calpe said it had sent to her on 1 
December 2021 about the avoidance  and I couldnt see a note about the email in Calpes 
notes. I said that if one of Calpes advisors had told Mrs T the policy was in place when it 
wasnt, it was an error on Calpes part. I said I could see why Mrs T and Mr T would have 
been concerned about it, as there can be serious consequences from driving uninsured. But 
I pointed out that there were no consequences for Mrs T and Mr T  and that we cant 
consider compensation for situations that might have happened but didnt. 
 
In summary
I said that based on the information Id seen so far, I was minded to uphold the complaint in 
part, as I dont think Calpe had shown it had the right to avoid the policy. I was minded to 
require Calpe to remove all references to the avoidance on databases and to recover only 
the policy excess (rather than the full cost of the claim) from Mrs T.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs T said every other insurer 
shed used had contacted her to check that the details shed supplied online were correct. 
She said Calpe should have checked Mr Ts licence details in advance. And she said she 
wasnt happy with the insinuation that she had deliberately not read the details provided 
before taking the policy out. 
Calpe replied to the provisional decision by providing evidence that if it had known Mr T had 
two serious endorsements on his licence,  it would not have offered a policy to Mrs T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It would have been preferable had Calpe provided the evidence we requested at an earlier 
stage. But Im satisfied that it has now shown that it wouldnt have offered Mrs T a policy, 
given Mr Ts endorsements, in line with its underwriting criteria. So I think Calpe has shown 
that there was a qualifying misrepresentation, which under CIDRA means it was entitled to 
avoid the policy.
I think it was reasonable for Calpe to decide that Mrs T acted deliberately or recklessly (not 
caring whether she gave Calpe the right details or not, and not caring whether it was 
important to Calpe to have the correct information from her). If theres been a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, under CIDRA an insurer is entitled to avoid the policy 
and retain the premium. So I think Calpe acted reasonably in doing that here.
Had the policy been in place when the incident occurred, Mrs T would have had to pay the 
£3,000 policy excess (for the reasons set out above) but Calpe would have covered any 
extra costs incurred on the claim. Unfortunately, the avoidance of the policy means that its 
treated as though it was never in place  so Calpe isnt required to pay any of the claim. I 
think that means its reasonable for Calpe to require Mrs T to pay the whole cost of it.   
Mrs T and Mr T are very distressed about what has happened, and theyve found 
themselves in a difficult financial position as a result of the accident and the policy 
avoidance. I think Calpe is likely to be willing to discuss with Mrs T arrangements for the 
repayment of the sum its owed by her. But I dont think it acted unreasonably in avoiding the policy or in retaining the premium. It seems the broker (rather than Calpe) gave Mrs T the 
wrong information about the policy being in place. But even if Calpe misled her, nothing 
happened as a result of Mrs T and Mr T driving uninsured. So despite their unfortunate 
situation, I dont think compensation for distress and inconvenience is relevant in this case.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman