DRN-3797787
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) unfairly rejected his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
What happened
In March 2022 Mr M paid £1,249. On his Barclaycard credit card for an electric scooter. Mr 
M says the electric scooter wasnt as described as it only achieved a maximum of 15 miles, 
nowhere near the advertised range of 60 miles. Mr M contacted the retailer for a full refund 
within 14 days.
 
The retailer agreed to arrange for the scooter to be collected but said Mr M would be 
responsible for the cost of the return delivery and it would test the scooter for faults before 
approving a full refund. Mr M and the retailer were unable to arrange a suitable collection or 
drop off time, because he wasnt available during the week and although he agreed to drop 
the scooter off, the retailer didnt open at weekends to receive it. Unhappy with the retailers 
response Mr M raised a dispute with Barclaycard to get a refund for the transaction.
Barclaycard said it was unable to pursue a chargeback as the retailer had accepted the 
return and Mr M still had possession of the electric scooter. It said Mr M hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation for a valid section 75 
claim. It asked Mr M to provide an independent inspection to confirm the battery wasnt 
performing as expected/was faulty, Mr M didnt provide one, so Barclaycard rejected his 
section 75 claim.
 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr M complained to Barclaycard. It accepted there were delays 
in updating Mr M about his claim, it credited £25 to his account and refunded a total of 
£63.54 of interest charges to reflect this. But Barclaycard said it hadnt made a mistake with 
the outcome of Mr Ms section 75 claim. Mr M remained unhappy; he brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there 
was sufficient evidence to show the electric scooter didnt perform as expected. She said the 
retailers 14 day return policy only applied to the return of unused items. So didnt think 
Barclaycard were unreasonable in declining Mr Ms section 75 claim. 
Mr M disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75. 
There is no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and if there is a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good practice for a chargeback claim to 
be made. 
Barclaycard considered the dispute under the chargeback Visa scheme, but the rules require 
that the goods be returned, here the retailer accepted the return, but Mr M was still in 
possession of the scooter, because they were unable to agree a collection/drop off time. So, 
I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake when it didnt progress a chargeback because the 
scooter hadnt been returned.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
 
14-day return policy
Mr M says the retailer is in breach of contract because it should have allowed him to return 
the electric scooter, within 14 days for a full refund without any questions, but instead the 
retailer said he would have to cover the delivery costs. And insisted on testing the battery to 
confirm a fault and said the refund might be subject to deductions for wear and tear and any 
damage. The 14-day policy on the retailers website says;
Returns
Our policy lasts 14 days. If 14 days have gone by since your purchase, 
unfortunately, we cannot offer you a refund or exchange.
We DO NOT accept returns of used products. To be eligible for a return, your item 
must be unused and in the same condition that you received it. It must also be in 
the original packaging. You will be responsible for the costs of shipping the item 
back to us.
The retailers online terms and conditions confirm it can inspect the product and if 
no fault is found, make deductions for any loss in value. The website also outlines a 
6-month warranty and says it will refund the costs of shipping if after inspection a 
battery fault is confirmed. Mr M used the scooter, so I dont think the retailer was in 
breach of contract for not approving a full refund within 14 days, without having the 
opportunity to inspect the scooter or for asking Mr M to cover the cost of the return.
battery range performance
Mr M says he was looking for a long-range electric scooter for his commute to work, a round 
trip of 23 miles. He says he selected the model because it was advertised online as 
achieving 60 miles range on a single charge and getting up to 33 mph top speed. Mr M tried 
the electric scooter on a few occasions, and he said that after charging, the battery would 
quickly discharge and was only able to achieve ranges between 11-15 miles. Mr M says the 
long range was misrepresented to him and says he wouldnt have bought the scooter if he 
had known it wouldnt cover enough range for his commute.
It is not my role to determine the outcome of a section 75 claim, that is something 
Barclaycard has considered. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint to do this, I have to take into account the relevant law, which 
includes section 75 and consider the evidence Mr M provided to Barclaycard in support of 
his claim.On the retailers website I can see Mr Ms model specification says the scooter can travel up 
to 62 miles on a full charge. The retailer explained the range can be affected by several 
factors such as, rider style, rider weight, the scooter settings, speed, incline, terrain and 
weather conditions. In an email the retailer noted Mr M had said he charged the battery to 
54.4 volts, which it said was only 60-70% charged, so would affect its performance. In 
response Mr M said he then fully charged the scooter but was still unable to achieve a range 
anywhere near 62 miles. The retailer offered to test the battery performance, but the parties 
were unable to agree a suitable drop off/collection of the scooter.
Other than what Mr M told us, Ive not seen any supporting evidence to confirm the scooter 
can only achieve between 11-15 miles, so I cant reasonably say the scooters performance 
was misrepresented to him or that the scooter wasnt as described.
  
Even taking into consideration the variables that can affect the range, there is a significant 
difference between the mileage Mr M says he was able to achieve and the expected long 
range. Which might suggest a fault/performance issue with the battery. Barclaycard said 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the battery was faulty and asked Mr M for an 
independent report to confirm a fault. Mr M hasnt provided any supporting evidence in to 
confirm the battery doesnt perform as expected or is faulty, so Im not persuaded the battery 
is faulty.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but taking everything into account Im 
unable to conclude that Barclaycard acted unreasonably in rejecting his section 75 claim, 
due to the lack of supporting evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the retailer.
Barclaycard accepts there were delays in updating Mr M about his claim. And I think the 
refund of interest charges and the payment of £25 fairly reflects this, so I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman