DRN-1669695
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a minor accident in his car. He reported the incident to Aviva, and he 
held the other driver completely at fault. Aviva did advise at that stage that the claim maybe 
settled 50/50 but it said it would investigate the matter. 
Mr R said the other driver reversed into him when he was established on the road. The way 
the claim was handled was looked at under a separate complaint which awarded 
compensation to Mr R for the way Aviva handled the claim. As liability wasnt finalised at that 
stage Aviva said it would continue to investigate and would get an engineer to look at the 
impact damage between the vehicles in order to help establish liability.
However, Aviva went on to decide liability on a split liability basis (50/50). It felt that both 
parties were reversing at the point of impact so it didnt feel it could defend Mr R if the matter 
went to court. 
But when our investigator looked into things for Mr R he upheld his complaint. Although he 
understood Avivas position he didnt think it had done what it said it would do when the 
previous complaint was finalised or investigate the claim sufficiently. And as he thought this 
prejudiced Mr Rs position he thought the claim should be marked non-fault.
Aviva didnt agree. It said that it wasnt the role of this service to decide liability and so the 
matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
As Aviva has highlighted it isnt the role of this service to decide liability as that is a matter for 
the courts. And Aviva has the right to take over the settlement of the claim which is what it 
has done in deciding to settle Mr Rs case on a split liability basis. 
But this services general approach is to look to ensure that insurers act fairly and 
reasonably in deciding whether to settle or pursue a third party. We expect insurers to make 
a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident.
Ive carefully considered how Aviva has handled this claim and, as it has acknowledged,  
there are aspects of its investigation that are limited. Id expect it to have gained an account 
from the third party in order to advance the claim and to be fair to Mr R. But it didnt and 
Mr R has said the third party admitted fault at the scene. And Mr R has maintained that he 
was established on the road when the other driver reversed into him. From the area of 
damage to Mr Rs car that was possible, and Aviva chose not to get an engineer to look at 
this possibility either, even though it said it would.
Although I cant comment on liability as Aviva has pointed out, but I can comment on its lack 
of investigation. Even before making my final decision Aviva was asked again if it had any 
account from the third party, anything at all, and it said it didnt. As such, I cant conclude that 
Aviva undertook a reasonable investigation and it is possible this has prejudiced Mr Rs 
position. I find it difficult to say that Aviva has acted fairly when it doesnt even have an 
account from the third party, and it couldve undertaken other basic investigation steps 
before concluding liability.
So, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Aviva to mark the claim as non-fault.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to mark the claim as non-fault.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman