DRN-2883245
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) reduced the credit limit on his credit card 
account and refused his application to increase it.
What happened
Mr B says a different business reported incorrect information on his credit file and as a result 
BoS reduced his credit limit on his credit card account. He says he asked BoS to increase it, 
but it refused which he says is unfair and doesnt recognise that he has always made 
required payments. Mr B says BoSs decision has caused him stress and worry.
BoS says its entitled in line with account terms and conditions to reduce a credit limit and 
refuse a customer request to increase it. It says it reduced Mr Bs credit limit to £850 and 
says it noticed a number of recent credit applications on Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoS acted in line with the account terms and conditions and had explained why it 
made the decision.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says BoSs decision makes no sense and says he has 
been a good customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mr Bs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that BoS can 
review a credit limit at any stage and if necessary, reduce it. So, Im satisfied that BoS hasnt 
made a mistake and was entitled to reduce the credit limit. Im also satisfied that its up to 
BoS when exercising its commercial judgement to decide what its customers credit limits 
should be and that a customer doesnt have the right to decide what that limit is. It follows 
that I think BoS was also entitled to refuse Mr Bs application to increase the credit limit.
I appreciate BoSs actions may cause Mr B inconvenience but that doesnt mean I cant fairly 
conclude BoS made a mistake. And I have explained I think its up to it to decide on such 
matters. I can see that BoS has fairly explained why it made its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman