DRN-2509583
The complaint
Mr H complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires treated him 
unfairly and caused him severe distress by transferring his account from the specialist 
team which supports vulnerable customers, to its collections team. Mr H also complains
Birmingham Midshires hasnt responded to his subject access request (SAR); it sent him a 
final response letter when he hadnt complained and gave our service incorrect information. 
What happened
Mr H currently has a buy-to-let mortgage which he took out in August 2008 over 20 years. 
At the time of the event complained of, he had two mortgages with Birmingham Midshires.
Around September 2018, our investigator resolved another complaint between 
Birmingham Midshires and Mr H about the way hed been treated. They found Mr H 
had explained several times that he had a mental health condition which caused him to 
swear and become aggressive if he was distressed. At the same time, he was 
experiencing financial difficulties and had told Birmingham Midshires he was suicidal.
Our investigator thought Birmingham Midshires had treated Mr H unfairly and 
shouldve supported him. The complaint was resolved informally as it agreed to refer 
Mr H to the customer priority team (CPT) and pay him £2,000 in compensation. So 
whilst Ive had regard to that complaint, this decision is only about whats happened 
since.
Mr H has said in July 2019, he spoke to his usual contact within the CPT and explained he 
would be in a position to pay off his outstanding mortgage on one property and start 
paying towards his mortgage and the outstanding arrears on the other in three to four 
months. Hes told us hed agreed to get in touch before then if there were any problems 
otherwise, he didnt think he needed to. Birmingham Midshires has said it had no further 
communication with Mr H after this call. Due to this and the arrears on the account, it 
instructed a field agent. And following a call in October 2019 (during which it says Mr H 
became aggressive), it transferred his account to collections. It also started repossession 
action in December 2019.
Mr H thinks Birmingham Midshires had already removed his account from the CPT before 
the call in October 2019 and in any event, he says it didnt tell him in a clear or 
appropriate way. Hes said Birmingham Midshires hasnt treated him fairly as a vulnerable 
customer and this has had a severe impact on his mental health.
Birmingham Midshires has accepted it shouldnt have removed Mr Hs account from the 
CPT and moved it back around December 2019. It also offered him £250 to make up for 
things.
Mr H didnt accept this amount and asked us to look into things. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. She listened to the calls and thought Mr H reasonably assumed he didnt 
need to call back until he started receiving an income. She thought Birmingham Midshires 
had acted prematurely in instructing the field agent; had delayed us looking into things; 
and had given us inaccurate information. She thought it should pay Mr H £450 in 
compensation. Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. So the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. I explained I thought 
the complaint should be upheld in summary because:
Although the requirements on Birmingham Midshires arent the same as if Mr H had a 
residential mortgage, Id thought about whats fair and reasonable to make my 
decision. And I didnt think it had treated Mr H fairly as a vulnerable customer or 
respond to his needs with sensitivity and flexibility. 
I thought Birming Midshires unreasonably removed Mr H from the CPT because of his 
mental health condition and the way he communicated. And I didnt think it 
communicated this decision to him in an appropriate or sympathetic way which caused 
him significant distress.
I didnt think Birmingham Midshires had made reasonable attempts to contact Mr H 
before deciding communication had broken down. So I thought it unfairly instructed the 
field agent and started its collections procedure when it did.
Having listened to the relevant call recordings, I wasnt satisfied Mr H had stopped 
engaging with Birmingham Midshires but instead reasonably thought he didnt need to 
be in contact for some time.
I thought Birmingham Midshires had delayed us looking into things unnecessarily. And 
considering Mr Hs circumstances  and that repossession action had started  I 
thought the delay wouldve added to an already stressful situation for him.
I thought Birmingham Midshires actions wouldve caused Mr H, as a vulnerable 
customer, a great deal of stress and anxiety which he wouldve found very difficult to 
manage.
Overall, to put things right in this case, I thought Birmingham Midshires should pay Mr H 
an additional £500 on top of the £250 it had already paid (so a total of £750). I also 
thought it should ensure his account is handled by the CPT; and relevant information 
about his condition and practical adjustments needed should be added to his account. 
Having considered Mr Hs complaint about Birmingham Midshires handling of his SAR, I 
didnt think Birmingham Midshires needed to compensate him any further to put things 
right.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Mr H 
said he accepted my provisional decision but questioned whether things had been looked 
at fully  specifically in relation to whether Birmingham Midshires had learnt from what had 
happened previously. Birmingham Midshires let us know it accepted my provisional 
decision and the CPT is already actively reviewing Mr Hs account.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. I understand Mr H has questioned whether 
Birmingham Midshires has learnt from whats gone wrong in the past. And as hes been 
treated unfairly again (which has led to this complaint), I can see why hes questioned this. 
But whilst I had regard to whats happened previously, my decision was about whats 
happened since his previous complaint only. And Im satisfied the conclusion Ive reached is 
enough to put things right for whats gone wrong here. 
As I have given direction to Birmingham Midshires regarding how it should manage Mr Hs 
account going forward to ensure hes treated fairly, I expect it will respond to his needs more 
appropriately. So for the same reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and 
direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to put things right by:
Paying Mr H £500 on top of the £250 its already paid him.
Ensuring Mr Hs account is handled by the customer priority team until his health or 
financial circumstances improve. If the decision is made to move his account, it needs to 
give Mr H a clear and advance explanation of the reasons why.
Adding relevant information to Mr Hs account  based on what he shares and subject to 
his permission  setting out details of his condition and practical adjustments needed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman