DRN-3959765
The complaint
Miss O complains that London General Insurance Company Limited declined her claim on 
her motor warranty. 
What happened
Miss O had a motor warranty that was underwritten by London General. In March 2022 she 
made a claim after the engine management warning light came on and she noticed a rattling 
sound coming from the vehicle. 
She took it to a repair garage and they identified that the timing chain was broken. London 
General authorised this repair under the warranty. 
In May 2022 the repair garage contacted it again and said they had found a further fault with 
the VVT unit and solenoid. However the additional repairs were declined by London General 
as it said theyd been caused by the vehicle being driven while it had the first fault. And it 
said this was specifically excluded under the warranty. 
Miss O didnt think this was fair. She complained but London General didnt uphold the 
complaint. So she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator thought London General had acted unfairly by declining the claim. She 
thought Ms O had taken reasonable action by driving the car to the garage once the warning 
light came on, so the second part of the claim should be covered under the warranty as well. 
She thought London General should accept the claim and settle it in line with the warranty 
terms and conditions. 
Miss O accepted our investigators outcome. However London General didnt. It said the 
warning light and rattling sign should have alerted Miss O to the problem and she shouldnt 
have driven the vehicle after this. And by doing so, she caused the additional damage. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
London General has relied on the following term in the warranty to decline the second part of 
Miss Os claim:
What is not insured? Mechanical Breakdown that causes damage to another Covered 
Component is not included if it is reasonable for us to conclude that further damage has 
been caused by your failure to take preventative steps or to notify us after the initial failure of 
a component (for example, the vehicle being driven with a defective part/warning lights being 
illuminated) and any loss arising from: excluded parts; incorrectly fitted parts; faults present 
at purchase
Its said that the second damage found to the VVT unit and solenoid was caused by the 
damage from the initial claim. And if the car hadnt been driven when the fault became 
apparent then the damage wouldnt have been caused, so no cover applied.
Ive considered the circumstances and the policy term and I dont think this is a fair 
application of the exclusion. The term states specifically that cover doesnt apply where it is 
caused by your failure to take preventative steps or to notify us after the initial failure of a 
component
Here, the failure of the timing chain was only apparent when the warning light came on and 
the car started to make a rattling noise. At this point Miss O only drove the vehicle to the 
repair garage in order for it to be assessed. And I think this is a reasonable step to take in 
order to ensure the issue is addressed. I therefore dont agree its fair for London General to 
say she failed to take preventative steps, as she stopped driving the vehicle, other than to 
take it to a garage. 
Further, it was only at the point the warning light came on that she could have known there 
was a fault with the timing chain. And its not known whether the further damage to the 
vehicle had already been caused before this point. Especially as the only journey taken after 
this was to the garage. So I dont think London General has enough information to say that 
by Miss O driving to the garage, this caused the additional fault. 
Based on this, I dont think London General has acted fairly by applying the exclusion in the 
circumstances. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should cover the costs for the 
repair of the second fault, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the warranty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Os complaint and direct London General 
Insurance Company Limited to cover the cost of the repair to the VVT unit and solenoid in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the warranty,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman