DRN-3426928
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited wouldnt deal with her subsidence claim 
under her home insurance policy.
Mrs T is represented by her daughter Mrs W but for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to 
Mrs T throughout.
What happened
Mrs T discovered cracking at her property and contacted her current insurers to make a 
claim. Her current insurers noted that Mrs T had claimed for subsidence before under a 
previous policy with Aviva. It said the damage was clearly linked to the original claim and 
that Aviva hadnt dealt with the original claim repairs correctly. The existing insurer referred 
to The Association of British Insurers (ABI) domestic subsidence agreement. Within the 
agreement it says:
Question 27 - Inadequate repairs - Previous Insurer
What action should be taken where the present insurer is notified of a claim where it is 
evident that continued damage is due to inadequate repairs undertaken by a previous 
insurer?
Answer
Where it can be clearly established that inadequate repairs and/or design were undertaken 
and the previous insurer can be identified then the claim should be referred back to them. In 
circumstances where the previous insurer cannot be identified then the claim should be 
handled under the terms of the Agreement.
So, Mrs T made a claim to Aviva saying this claim was all linked to the previous claim. Aviva 
didnt accept this. It referred to another part of the ABI agreement that says:
If you discover subsidence damage after changing your insurance provider:
If you change insurer and then discover subsidence damage, the ABI's subsidence claim 
handling agreement will help determine whether your previous or current insurer should 
handle your claim. The decision will be based on the amount of time that has passed 
between you switching insurer, discovering subsidence damage, and notifying your insurer:
if the date of notification is within eight weeks of changing insurance provider your 
previous insurer will handle your claim
if the date of notification is between eight weeks and one year of switching provider then 
your previous and current insurers will share the cost of your claim
if the date of notification is more than a year after you switched insurers your current 
insurance provider will deal with your claim.
As Aviva wasnt the current insurer it said it didnt have to deal with the claim. It said the 
current insurer needed to in line with the above section of the ABI agreement. Unhappy with 
this Mrs T brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint against Aviva. He said despite his requests for details 
there was a lack of evidence to support Avivas stance that the claim needed to be dealt with 
by the current insurers. He pointed out that Aviva hadnt accepted the current insurers 
invitation to jointly inspect the damage. He said the evidence provided by the current insurer 
to show that the damage was all linked to the previous claim was persuasive. He said 
damage wouldnt have reappeared in the same place after such a short time if Aviva had 
carried out effective and lasting repairs. Based on this he felt that question 27 of the ABI 
agreement should apply in this case and Aviva should deal with the claim. He said Aviva 
should also pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs T by 
the way Aviva had poorly handled the claim.
Aviva didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration and disappointment at not having her claim dealt with. 
Shes had continuous cover throughout and the ABI agreement is in place to avoid 
customers not getting valid claims dealt with and resolved. The agreement is there to protect 
customers and insurers. Both the insurers in this case are ABI members so the agreement 
applies to them.
I accept this is a rare and therefore slightly more complex situation. This is a further/follow up 
claim for the same issue  subsidence.
Its clear that both insurers feel strongly that the other ought to be stepping in and dealing 
with it but that should have been dealt with between the two insurers rather than leaving 
Mrs T to complain to this service.
Its accepted that while the policy was with Aviva Mrs T did make a previous subsidence 
claim that Aviva accepted and dealt with. That claim settlement was concluded in 2018.
Avivas experts S has been back to the property and inspected the recent claim damage. It 
said: 
The damage includes diagonal and tapered cracking mainly to the rear wall. This is the 
largest crack, and is a new crack in this wall, no previous repairs have been undertaken in 
this wall.
Review of the settled claim confirms all the mitigation has been completed and the utility 
[room] was stable prior to repair.
Therefore, the damage reported is new damage. The new damage should be referred to 
the current insurers rather than the now previous insurers who no longer insure the 
building.
It reiterated its position that the ABI agreement section it referred to is the one that applies. It 
said the current insurer needs to deal with the claim.
The current insurers expert W also inspected and said:Our position is that the previous insurers (and their adjusters) did not properly 
diagnose/resolve the original subsidence problem and this is therefore a matter for them to 
reconsider.
They [Aviva] originally thought there was a clay shrinkage problem due to vegetation, 
attempted to pursue vegetation control measures which proved unsuccessful and although 
originally not believing there was a drain leakage issue, they then concluded that drain 
repairs had solved the problem.
The monitoring readings that have been supplied are also incomplete as no visits were 
carried out between June 2017 and December 2017 and there were still signs of movement 
occurring.
For example, one of the monitoring locations showed 2mm opening from March to April 2017 
and 2mm of closure from April to May and others show around 0.5mm opening June 2017 to 
December 2017. Our adjuster has asked Avivas adjuster repeatedly for an explanation for 
this, but none has been provided.
Importantly, it is also the case that although the cracks were repaired at the conclusion of the 
original claim, the cracking now present is in the same locations.
It is inconceivable therefore that we are now dealing with a new cause of subsidence.
It is usual practice in such circumstances for the previous insurers just to reopen their files 
and resolve matters as required by the ABI Subsidence Agreement, but Aviva are refusing to 
do so.
We should also add, the very purpose of Question 27 in the agreement is to avoid exactly 
this situation and so not to provide an incentive to all insurers just to repair cracks, leave the 
problem unresolved in anticipation that a later insurer will have to resolve the problem 
instead.
In its inspection report W said:
We are concerned with the rear projecting part of the garage/utility where there is clear 
evidence of previous repairs carried out. 
On the right hand side of the garage/utility there are only 1mm wide cracks, but in places 
where previous repairs were clearly undertaken. These are visible both internally and 
externally.
In terms of the cause W said neighbours were persuaded to reduce their vegetationIt 
seems surprising therefore that S went to the trouble of persuading neighbours to reduce 
their vegetation if it was not implicated. The present damage has occurred during a very dry 
spring/summer and we wonder if the ongoing movement is due to shrinkage of the sub-soils 
due to the remaining vegetation.
W also said Aviva originally decided The ultimate conclusion was that the problem was due 
to leaking drains, although the initial drainage investigation did not reveal any leakage.
The current insurer provided a complaint summary and said it held the strong opinion the 
claim was consequential of inadequate repairs by Aviva. Instead the current insurer said 
the cause is in fact related to clay soil shrinkage caused by vegetation as they [Aviva] 
believed originally.W questioned the original monitoring and pointed out that local vegetation is still in place. 
This evidence is more persuasive than the limited details provided by Aviva. 
There was a debate between the two insurers experts S and W around the ABI agreement 
question 27. In correspondence S acting for Aviva said:
If they (the other insurer) show the repairs were defective and this is the reason for a further 
claim then, their right, under the ABI it would come back to Aviva.
In discussion with the current insurer W said Initially, S failed to recognise that the ABI 
Subsidence Agreement could apply, but he had now eventually done so.
The current insurers did show that it had tried to work with Aviva to agree a way forward, but 
it does appear Aviva attempted to shut down the discussion.
Aviva is aware of this services approach to making sure following a claim that repairs are 
lasting and effective. The claim it dealt with previously wasnt completely concluded until 
2018 and the damage returned in 2020. I think its hard for Aviva to argue that there isnt a 
direct link and I think if it had evidence to show there was no direct link it would have 
provided this to support its position. Instead it has maintained the same line about the time 
limits around the ABI agreement and not done the joint inspection the current insurer offered. 
I dont think Aviva has acted reasonably.
So, I think the ABI agreement here dictates that Aviva needs to step in and deal with the 
claim. I think the evidence from the current insurer, the lack of details from Aviva and the 
timeline shows that the previous repairs were inadequate.
It is clear the claim being declined, and the time delays involved have had an impact on Mrs 
T and her health. Aviva hasnt handled the claim well and so £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
Deal with the claim
Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Deal with the claim
Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman