DRN-3074641
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as R has complained about PIB Risk Services Limited (trading as 
PIB Insurance Brokers) in connection with its motor fleet insurance renewal. 
 
Mr B, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf.  
What happened
R is a haulage company which operates a fleet of vehicles. PIB is an insurance broker and 
intermediary which acted as agent for R in connection with its fleet insurance.  
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Rs fleet insurance policy was due for renewal on 
22 May 2021. R asked PIB for its claim history in order to search the market for alternative 
cover so it could ensure it was getting the best price at renewal - 
R received the claims history on 17 May 2021. It complained that it hadnt been given 
enough notice of the claims history and therefore it couldnt find alternative cover and had to 
accept a higher premium with its current insurer through PIB. 
R was also unsatisfied with PIBs general handling of the renewal process and the claims 
which appeared on its claims history.  
 
PIB says they allowed enough time for the renewal to take place and the increase in 
premium was due to the previous claims history, which they expected and had previously 
warned R about. PIB also said that once the renewal quote had been provided by the current 
insurer and the claims history was received, they searched the market with 17 other insurers 
for alternative cover, however, apart from the current insurer and two others, a no quote 
response was returned.  
 
PIB said the no quote was due to the claims history but R didnt think this was accurate and 
said the other insurers didnt quote because it was too close to the renewal date.  
 
R was also unsatisfied that the new terms were not received from PIB until after the renewal 
date. PIB said the cover was being amended due to an additional vehicle being added to the 
policy. PIB said they forwarded the documents to R within a few days of receiving them from 
the insurer. 
Following the renewal process, Mr B wanted to change to a new broker because he was 
unhappy with the service R received from PIB but, he felt that PIB was making this difficult 
for it. PIB said because R entered into a credit agreement to pay for the renewal policy they 
required Mr B to sign the credit agreement to release payment to the current insurer before 
the change in broker could take place.  
 
R wasnt satisfied with PIBs response to its complaint and so it brought it to our service.  
 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint. He felt that PIB had kept R sufficiently informed 
about the renewal activity and informed R that it should expect an increase in premium due 
to the previous claims history and therefore didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
R didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.  
 
Mr B feels very strongly about what has happened and the way in which the renewal was 
handled. I want to assure him Ive read and carefully considered everything hes said. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to what has been said, but the purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by R, and PIB, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.   
 
Information on previous claims  
 
R says the delay in receiving the claims history meant it couldnt search the market for 
alternative quotes based on its requirements.   
 
Following a meeting with R on 10 May 2021, I can see that PIB requested the claims history 
from the current insurer. The claims history was received on 14 May 2021, and it was sent to 
R the next working day, 17 May 2021. I cant see any evidence of delay in forwarding the 
details of the claims history to R and in any event, R didnt present any alternative quotes 
even after receiving this information.   
 
There was also a duplicate payment on Rs claim history which it thinks would have 
impacted the quotes it received. Although the duplicate payment wasnt recovered until after 
renewal, I have seen a copy of the risk presentation and emails which were sent to the 17 
insurers during the market exercise. PIB did make them aware of the error with the duplicate 
claim. Even though PIB incorrectly said the payment had already been recovered when it 
hadnt, I havent seen anything to persuade me that the duplicate claim would have impacted 
the quotes R received.  
 
Timing of renewal 
 
R said that PIB was not acting in its best interest to secure a competitively priced policy at 
renewal by leaving the process very close to the renewal date. R says it was left with no 
alternative but to renew with the current insurer at the increased price in order to keep its 
business going.  
 
I understand that the renewal of the policy was agreed very close to the renewal date so I 
can see why this may have caused frustration and worry for Mr B.  
 
R says the delay impacted the price it paid for the insurance. In order to uphold Rs 
complaint on this part, I need to be satisfied that the timing of the renewal has caused a loss 
to R. I only have Rs comments to suggest that it did but theres no evidence other than Rs 
comments to support that it was the reason for the increase in price. Both parties have said 
there was an expectation for the premium to increase because of the previous claims history 
so I cant fairly conclude that the renewal date was the reason for the increase in price. 
 Following PIBs market exercise, 17 insurers returned a no quote. I have seen the 
responses received from insurers  where a reason was provided for no quote, the insurers 
said they were not quoting because of the previous claims history. None of the insurers that 
refused to quote said theyre not quoting because of the tight time frame. R has suggested 
this to be the case, but Ive not seen any other evidence to support its view.  
 
I also understand that R is unsatisfied with the timing of when the new terms were received. 
PIB said the delay was due to the policy being updated. They also explained that the new 
terms were forwarded to R upon receipt from the insurer and the cover was fully in place 
from the date of renewal. I cant see any evidence of delay in forwarding the new terms to R. 
 
Changing brokers  
 
R felt that PIB was holding it back from switching to a new broker. PIB said the insurer 
required payment in order to release the broker from its duties. It is reasonable that the 
insurer would have required payment for the work completed before a change in broker 
could take place. I haven't seen any evidence to support that PIB was unnecessarily 
delaying R from changing brokers.  
 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome R was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, Im not going to require PIB to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman