DRN-2058689
The complaint
Mr P says Gain Credit LLCs (trading as Lending Stream) affordability checks were not truly
reflective of his situation and the interest was too high. Mr P says he got into trouble with
managing his debts which meant he had to keep taking numerous loans to make ends 
meet.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Mr P agreed with our 
adjudicators opinion. But Lending Stream disagreed for a number of reasons. The complaint 
was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream had treated Mr P fairly when it provided the first four
loans. However, the adjudicator didnt think the fifth loan, and any subsequent loans,
shouldve been approved.
The adjudicator felt that by loan five, proportionate checks would most likely have shown
Lending Stream that Mr P was having problems managing his money as he had a significant
number of outstanding short-term loans with Lending Stream and other businesses.
By loan 6, our adjudicator thought that a pattern of lending had been established which
shouldve indicated to Lending Stream that Mr P was unable to sustainably repay his loans.
Mr P appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings.
Lending Stream didnt accept our adjudicators findings and it made a number of points,
including it believed the information it gathered showed that these loans were suitable for
Mr P. Also, it gave us some further information about the checks it carried out for loans 
12-15. Lending Stream was satisfied he had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan
repayments he was committed to making.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website. And having done so I'm still intending to uphold the
complaint but I've provided some further information.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
                - If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall
pattern of lending increase Mr Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or
otherwise harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Lending Stream, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks in order to figure
out whether Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr P
could sustainably make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the
case.
Mr P didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I make no finding on the
checks carried out for these loans or whether it was fair and reasonable for Lending Stream
to have provided them to Mr P. But as they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had
with Lending Stream, so I have taken them into account when considering his later loans.Loans 5 to 11.
For loans 5  11, Lending Stream has told us it relied on the information Mr P told it about
his monthly income and expenditure. Lending Stream also completed credit checks with a
Credit Reference Agency for each loan and the data it received was factored into its
consideration of Mr Ps monthly credit commitments. In addition to this, Lending Stream
considered the Office of National Statistics (ONS) using national averages for non-credit
commitment expenses such as; food, utilities and travels expenses.
National averages, while they may play a part, they are not necessarily reflective of an
individual customers circumstances. I say this while mindful of the fact that Lending Stream
itself will accept that its customer base isnt made up of consumers with average
circumstances but those who typically  for whatever reasons  have had difficulty managing
previous credit. Equally, while again credit checks can play a part in any affordability
assessment, there are some limitations such as at times a delay of between 4-6 weeks for
new information to be recorded. This can mean the results of any credit check may not be an
up to date reflection of a customers financial position at the time the check is carried out.
But, in any event, I dont think Lending Streams checks went far enough when it provided
loan 5. I think the terms of Mr Ps loans, the number of loans he had taken and the size of
each monthly repayment seemed to be increasing with each new loan in my view meant that
Lending Stream shouldve carried out a full review of Mr Ps finances. This is so Lending
Stream could gain an accurate understanding of Mr Ps actual financial position in order to
see whether he was in a position to take on this loan. By now, this shouldve included asking
to Mr P to verify some of the income and expenditure declarations he had made. Lending
Stream didnt do this, so I dont think its checks went far enough when loans 5 to 11 were
approved.
Loans 12 to 15
Lending Stream has additionally queried the affordability checks it carried out on Mr Ps later
loans. It says that it requested and reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for loans 12 - 15 and if
these checks werent proportionate has questioned whether any amount of affordability
checks would be deemed to be proportionate to the circumstances.
Lending Stream has provided us with evidence that it used open banking for loans 1215.
This gave it read-only access to Mr Ps bank statements. I do acknowledge that having read-
only access to Mr Ps bank statements wouldve given Lending Stream a significant amount
of additional information about whether Mr P was in a position to afford to meet the loan
repayments he was being asked to commit to. And from the information Lending Stream
gathered, it considered that Mr Ps loans were affordable.
Lending Stream tells that it uses the bank statement information for three months prior to the
application was considered and it then utilised all information for at least two full months prior
to the date of application. When looking at Mr Ps monthly income and expenses, it identified
Mr Ps income and expenses from the full month preceding the month of his application in
June 2019. Whilst some of the information showing on Mr Ps bank statements was already
categorised, Lending Stream then classified the categories as discretionary and 
nondiscretionary and then considered Mr Ps typical monthly expenses.
Lending Stream has provided a breakdown for each expense it considered when analysing
Mr Ps bank statements. I can see it compared the information Mr P told it and adjusted
these figures using ONS averages as well as including Mr Ps other typical expenses such
as for shopping and restaurants, to name a few. There was a separate category for Mr Ps
credit commitments.Lending Stream says it reviewed Mr Ps bank statements. But it hasnt provided us with bank
statements that it had access to. Instead, it has provided us with a spreadsheet which
contains Lending Streams analysis of the bank statement. That said, Ive not seen anything
to suggest that it isnt reflective of what Mr Ps bank statements are likely to have shown.
And in these circumstances, Ive considered the information on this basis.
It appears that Lending Streams checks were more robust than the ones it had carried out
for Mr Ps previous loans. But while some of the overall expense figures used, werent
unreasonable, I can see Mr P made a significant amount of cash withdrawals in the months
leading up to his twelfth loan application. And these withdrawals averaged nearly half of
Mr Ps monthly income. Whilst I have limited information about the nature of these cash
withdrawals, I can see these withdrawals were regular. And as the amount of these
withdrawals was significant enough to impact on Mr Ps ability to make his loan payments
going forward, I think that this was something that needed further clarification and
consideration.
Its also clear from the spreadsheet Lending Stream has provided that it was aware that Mr P
was aware of these cash withdrawals  as its recorded that these were around £600 (at the
time of loan 12). However, following its analysis it seems to have used a utilized value
which is significantly less then what it actually saw. There is no explanation of this  and
indeed, this doesnt really seem to be taking Mr Ps actual financial position into account as it
seems that Lending Stream has undervalued these withdrawals, without even knowing what
these funds were withdrawn for, when deciding whether the loan was affordable.
Bearing in mind the amount of the withdrawals, this was Mr Ps twelfth request for a loan and
hed already exhibited a pattern of taking out new loans shortly after, or even before,
previous ones had been repaid, I think that Lending Stream needed to get a reasonable
explanation regarding these withdrawals in order for its checks to have been proportionate.
As Lending Stream did not obtain this explanation before providing loan 12 or any of Mr Ps
subsequent ones, I find that the checks it carried out for loans 12 to 15 werent reasonable
and proportionate either.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks on loans 5 to 15 have indicated to Lending
Stream that Mr P would have been unable to sustainably repay the loan(s)?
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint about his fifth loan as he thought additional checks
would have likely shown that Mr P held two other outstanding short-term loans with other
lenders in addition to the two outstanding loans already held with Lending Stream  which
suggested Mr P was having problems managing his money.
Having reviewed the information we have on file about Mr Ps circumstances which includes
reviewing his bank statements from the time that loan 5 was approved, I can see he had
taken out two loans with two other short-term lenders prior to his fifth loan with
Lending Stream and these loans were due to be repaid at around the same time as his
monthly commitments to Lending Stream.
In addition to this, Mr Ps third and fourth loans were still running and had only been open for
around one month. This meant by loan 5, Mr P would have had five outstanding short-term
loans. And knowing this I think Lending Stream ought to have concluded that it was unlikely
that Mr P would be able to repay this loan or any further loans without having to borrow
again. So I dont think that Lending Stream shouldve provided this loan, or any later loans.
I would point out as well, that at the time loan 5 was granted, Mr P had additional monthlycredit commitments for credit cards and for personal loans totalling around £394 meaning his
repayments towards all of his credit commitments was actually more than half of his monthly
income. This is without considering his regular living costs. So Im satisfied that this all
shows loan 5 to have been unaffordable for Mr P and it follows that I find that Lending
Stream would more likely than not have discovered this had it carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 15 because
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case in the next section.
Thinking about the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of
lending increase Mr Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some
other way?
In addition to assessing the affordability of each individual loan provided to Mr P by Lending
Stream, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending. Bearing
in mind the short-term purpose of this type of credit and the relevant rules, guidance and
good industry practice at the time, it seems to me that there may come a point at which a
lender should reasonably question whether continuing to offer further short-term loans to a
customer who appears to be persistently reliant upon them was unsustainable or otherwise
harmful.
So Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ps borrowing history, to see if there was a
point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending was
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. So this means from this point onwards if Mr P
continued to take loans, without any significant decrease and / or gaps between loans this
service thinks this demonstrates that Mr P wasnt in a position to sustainably repay his
lending. And I think Lending Stream shouldve realised this at the time it provided loan 6.
I say this because:
Mr P was into his seventh month of owing Lending Stream money. He now had four
loans running at this point, and his overall indebtedness had increased to the largest
amount he owed so far. In my view, this demonstrates he was not making any
headway in his need for further assistance.
Mr Ps first loan was for £200 and loan 6 was for £120  although loan 6 was for a
smaller amount the monthly repayments that Mr P was committed to making where
nearly three times bigger. At this point Lending Stream ought to have known that
Mr P was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to
meet an ongoing need.
From loan 6 onwards Mr P was regularly providing with a new loan within a week or
so of settling a previous one.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan
15 was taken out 14 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a similar amount as his
first. Mr P had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending
Stream over an extended period.
And I would point out that just because Mr P repaid some of his loans early is not a sign that
these loans were actually affordable for him. After all, if Mr P was borrowing from other
lenders, in order to fill a hole left in his finances by repaying these loans then Mr P wasnt in
a position to sustainably repay his borrowing.
Did Mr P lose out as a result of Lending Streams shortcomings in relation to loans 6 to 15?I think that Mr P lost out when Lending Stream provided loans 6 to 15 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing
him to take expensive credit over an extended period of time and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr
Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high 
cost loans.
Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here
that leads me to conclude Lending Stream acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in
some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on page
two of this decision, I think that Lending Stream unfairly gave Mr P loans 5 to 15. So, Im
upholding Mr Ps complaint about these loans and Lending Stream should put things right
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr P responded with the following 
points for me to consider;
 
At the time of applying for the first loan, Mr P was making payments towards other 
short term lenders.
The payments for loans 14 and 15 were made in full and have now been repaid.
Mr P has told us that large cash withdrawals taken during the time of loan wouldve 
been for rent, petrol, and groceries.
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt comment on loans 1-4 in my provisional decision as there appeared to be no dispute 
that Lending Stream had done something wrong when these loans were provided. However, 
in response to my provisional decision Mr P has raised further concerns about his initial loan 
and that he was already borrowing from other short-term lenders at this point.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said about his outstanding short-term loans alongside the 
results of the credit check which Lending Stream completed for his first loan. But this new 
information hasnt changed my decision. 
The credit check results show Mr P had 9 active accounts at the time he applied for loan 1. 
However, Lending Stream didnt know, from the overview it has provided, what these 
accounts were for  so they couldve been payday loans but equally they couldve been 
credit cards, personal loans or a mobile phone bill. However, at that point, I dont think 
Lending Streams checks needed to go further to verify the information that Mr P had 
provided.
 
This was the start of the lending relationship, so Lending Stream had no lending history to go 
by, and the credit check showed no concerning information. Therefore, I dont think Lending 
Stream would have been aware that Mr P was borrowing from other short-term lenders at 
the start of the borrowing relationship. However, in my provisional decision, I have already explained the reasons why I think Lending Stream needed to complete more detailed checks 
from loan 5, and that, had it done so, it wouldnt have provided that loan.
 
With regards to Mr Ps last two points, the information he has provided relates to loans which 
Ive already decided should be upheld and I explained my reasons for doing so in the 
provisional decision. I already think Lending Stream shouldnt have approved them. So, I 
havent considered these points further but acknowledge that Mr P says loans 14 and 15 
have now been repaid.
Lending Stream didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons, and I still think it was 
wrong to have provided Mr P with loans 5  14. 
Putting things right
Mr P says hes repaid loans 14 and 15 so Lending Stream need to be mindful of that when 
working out the redress below. However, Ive kept in place the original redress in case there 
was an outstanding balance. However, if there is no outstanding balance, because Mr P has 
repaid the loans then Lending Stream is not able to make any deductions from the refund.  
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 5 to 13;
pay interest of 8%* simple a year for loans 5  13 on any refunded interest and
charges from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all unpaid interest and charges applied to loans 14 and 15. Then rework
these loans as if all repayments made by Mr P went towards the principal sum he
borrowed. If this results in Mr P having made overpayments, then these 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8%* simple interest from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement. If however, Mr P hasnt already paid enough to 
clear the principal sum he borrowed then Lending Stream can, if it wishes use any 
refund due from loan 5 to 13 to offset any outstanding principal.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file about loan 5;
remove all entries about loans 6 - 15 from Mr Ps credit file. The period of time Mr P 
owed Lending Stream money means that any information still recorded about 
these loans is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending
Stream must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman