DRN-2935531
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited agreed to a loan shed applied for as she 
said it was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In January 2018, Miss N took out a £5,000 loan with Everyday, with repayments of £307.29 
a month. Miss N, in her application said she was living with her parents, had been working 
for her employer since 2001. And the loan was to be used for debt consolidation.
Miss N said Everyday shouldnt have approved the loan as it wasnt affordable when all of
her circumstances were taken into consideration. Miss N complained to Everyday as she 
didnt think theyd done enough to establish her true situation. Miss N said she couldnt 
afford the loan repayments, and Everyday had acted irresponsibly in lending to her.
Everyday said theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks that showed the loan
was affordable. And said that Miss N had a 14-day cooling off period to change her mind if 
she didnt think she could afford the loan. Miss N wasnt happy with their response and 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday had carried out a credit search, checked Miss Ns last bank 
statement and used industry standard checks for details to calculate her income and 
expenditure at the time of the application. He said these showed Miss N had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments. He didnt ask Everyday to do anything 
differently.
Miss N didnt agree, she said shed other commitments that Everyday had seen but didnt 
consider, in particular her rent. And this showed Everyday hadnt carried out proper checks 
when agreeing to lend to her. Miss N asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss N would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss N 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Miss N required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Miss N. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Miss N herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Miss N had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
her.
Everyday said Miss Ns credit file didnt show she was having any difficulty in repaying
her existing financial commitments. It showed she had a loan, a mail order account, public 
utilities and a communications supplier. And that there had been five credit enquiries in the 
preceding six months. Everyday also saw Miss Ns latest bank statement. And from this 
information they calculated shed a monthly income of around £2152, consisting of a monthly 
salary, child and working tax credit. As Miss N said she lived with her parents, Everyday 
didnt make an allowance for rent. Her monthly credit commitments were £497.35 and for 
day to day living expenses they used a standard industry percentage calculation compared 
to Miss Ns income that allowed for monthly outgoings of £753.20. Everyday understood the 
loan was to be used for consolidation of borrowing, and this would suggest Miss Ns credit 
commitments would be reduced. Everyday calculated this reduction to be £144.31. Taking 
all of this into account they said this would have left Miss N with a disposable income of 
£965.75. Taking the new loan commitment of £307.29, this would have left Miss N with 
£658.46 disposable income. Based on their affordability assessment Everyday deemed the 
loan was affordable.
Ive looked at the application data, and credit information Everyday would have seen, 
including Miss Ns bank statement. And their calculations appear to be reasonable and in 
line with this information, apart from Miss Ns rent. I can understand Everyday not including 
an amount for rent as Miss Ns application says shes living with her parents and the 
transactions on her bank statement arent identified as being for rent. But our investigator in 
speaking to Miss N found there was a monthly payment of £1,399 for her rent, and also that 
shed received housing benefit of £1,004.20. This meant Miss N had an additional 
expenditure of around £395. If Everyday had included this amount in their assessment, as it 
was information available to them, this would have left Miss N with around £263 in 
disposable income. With this amount of disposable income, I think Everyday would have still 
deemed the loan to be affordable for Miss N.Miss N has also said she has the expense of private nursery fees, but from what Ive seen 
these costs are being covered by her former partner. The £1,000 showing on her bank 
statement from her former partner wasnt included that I can see in Everydays affordability 
assessment. The statements also show income from on-line transactions but again these 
werent considered as they arent a regular income.
Miss N has said her income was payable only for term time, I havent seen anything to show 
me that Miss N ever made Everyday of this. And I cant say that Everyday did anything 
wrong by not taking into consideration something they were unaware of.  
I know Miss N will be disappointed in my decision but the information, and evidence, that 
Miss N gave to Everyday suggested that she could sustainably afford the loan repayments. I 
think Everyday was entitled to rely on that information and conclude that they should lend to 
Miss N. So, I dont think the loan was lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman