DRN-3774094
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr B entered into a 3-year conditional sale agreement for a used car with 
Moneybarn. The car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of about 
41,500.
In November 2021 Mr B experienced a knocking noise from under the car so took it to his 
local garage and had both front springs replaced at his own expense. Mr B says the garage 
advised him that the car had excessive corrosion on the underside and had also said they 
thought it would be unlikely to pass an MOT in the future. Photos of the underside were 
taken.
Mr B complained to Moneybarn about the corrosion as well as the state of the shock 
absorbers and track end rods. Mr B explained that he had to change the front springs and 
asked to reject the car due to its condition. 
The car was taken back to the supplying dealer who agreed to replace the steering and track 
rod ends under the warranty. However, the dealer said the corrosion was only surface rust 
and so not a concern. They said the car was roadworthy having passed its MOT in June 
2021 without any advisories. 
Mr B complained to Moneybarn that the dealer didnt agree about the excessive corrosion 
and he didnt consider that Moneybarn had fully addressed his complaint. Moneybarn 
partially upheld his complaint based on there being some inherent or developing faults at the 
point of sale and said it was sorry Mr B had had some dissatisfaction with the car. However, 
Moneybarn said it noted the necessary repairs had now been carried out and the car 
returned. It paid Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
also for the delay in responding to his complaint but didnt agree to take any further action.
Mr B was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld.  He said although he 
accepted from the photos that the underside of the car was corroded this wasnt unusual for 
a car of that age. He also said that the evidence didnt support the car had excessive 
corrosion at its point of supply to Mr B as it had passed its MOT in June 2021 with no 
advisories which it wouldnt have done if it had not been in a roadworthy condition. 
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the garage that had carried out the 
repairs had said the corrosion was excessive and that the car would fail a future MOT. Mr B 
said he had taken the car for a new MOT in May 2022 and although it had passed, there 
were advisories due to its corrosion. He said hed raised the corrosion within the first three 
months of acquiring the car and so it must have been present at the vehicles point of supply. 
Mr B said it wasnt fair that he faced future expensive repairs because he had the car on a 
three-year credit agreement.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr B is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of about 41,500. 
So, some issues of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. However, Ive 
seen that Mr B raised issues with the car a few weeks after he had acquired it. He had 
experienced a knocking noise and taken it to a local garage who had repaired the front 
springs. It was when these repairs were carried out that the corrosion to the underside 
was brought to Mr Bs attention.
Mr B has supplied a number of photos that show there is corrosion present on the 
underside of the car and while Im aware the garage told Mr B this was excessive I 
havent seen that it provided a report to Mr B to that effect. Ive also seen that the 
supplying dealer disagreed that the corrosion was excessive and said it didnt impact on 
the roadworthiness of the vehicle.
Mr B says it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn to have arranged for the car to 
be independently inspected, but I disagree with that view. This is because I dont think the 
evidence supports the view that the corrosion was excessive at the point of supply of the 
car to Mr B. 
I accept the photos clearly show corrosion to the underside of the car but the issue for me 
is whether this is excessive and beyond what would normally be expected in a car of that 
age. The car is used and so the presence of corrosion wouldnt be unusual and therefore 
wouldnt always be considered as a fault or make the car of unsatisfactory quality. It had 
passed its MOT in June 2021 with no advisories which it wouldnt have done if the 
corrosion had been excessive and significantly impacting on any parts of the car. And as 
this MOT had been carried out only around four months before the car was acquired by 
Mr B, I think its reasonable to say that the corrosion wouldnt have changed significantly 
in that time.  Dont think the corrosion would have developed and become excessive by 
the time Mr B was supplied with the car.I appreciate Mr Bs concerns that the corrosion will deteriorate further and may lead to 
expensive repairs being needed to the car, but I havent seen any evidence that this is the 
current position. Ive seen that the car passed its new MOT in May 2022 although I accept 
that this time with advisories. However, while the corrosion to some parts was noted, it 
also states on the MOT that these parts are not seriously weakened by it. So, while I 
agree that over time repairs may become necessary due to this corrosion, the timeline for 
that is unknown and would be in the future. And with a car of this age, I think a 
reasonable person would expect that type of repair and maintenance to arise over time. I 
cant say on the evidence I have seen that the car isnt as durable as would be expected. 
As the evidence, including the new MOT, dont support the car had excessive corrosion at 
its point of supply to Mr B, then I dont think Moneybarn was obliged to seek an 
independent review as to its condition.
In regard to the repairs that were carried out under the warranty, I accept this is evidence 
that the car did have faults at the time Mr B acquired it. But although the car was faulty 
this doesnt necessarily mean that he has the right to reject it and cancel the agreement. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the retailer does have a right to carryout repairs 
which here it did at no cost to Mr B. I understand that these repairs were successful, and 
the car returned to Mr B. So, Im satisfied that these issues with the car were resolved.
Ive seen that Moneybarn paid Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience and 
distress at having to deal with the faulty car and also for delay in responding to his 
complaint. I think in the circumstances this amount is fair and I wouldnt ask it to do more.
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Mr B, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
As set out in the reasons above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman