DRN-3299494
The complaint
Mr G and Ms G are unhappy with the private medical insurance they had with Vitality Health 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms G had private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality. The policy 
included the Vitality programme, which allows customers to accumulate points which could 
lead to discounts upon renewal or other benefits. One aspect of this is logging exercise data 
on the Vitality app which could then earn points.
Ms G is unhappy because she has experienced issues with the Vitality app which has 
impacted her ability to earn points. She is also unhappy with the time it had taken to resolve 
these issues and the poor communication from Vitality. 
Ms G contacted Vitality in 2018 to report problems using the Vitality app. Vitality confirmed it 
would consider data that came through the Apple health app and advised Ms G to check her 
member zone for eligible devices. 
Ms G got in touch with Vitality again in June 2019, due to issues syncing to the app. Vitality 
helped Ms G sync the app and the data started coming through so she could receive her 
points. Vitality also agreed to add the previous six months points she wouldve accrued once 
she sent in supporting screen shots of the Apple health data. It said it couldnt add data 
further back than six months but did agree to add an additional 200 points to resolve this. 
In January 2020 Ms G experienced issues syncing to the Vitality app again. She provided 
screen shots again of her data, but Vitality said there was an issue with formatting and 
partnering with certain apps. This issue was dealt with under a separate complaint. 
Ms G continued to have issues in May 2020 with syncing to the Vitality app. Vitality offered 
to manually change her status to gold at this time.
Vitality requested access to Ms Gs device via a screen sharing facility, which it confirmed 
would be view only access and she would always remain in control. But Ms G didnt want 
to do this as she had concerns over the process, following advice she says she received 
from Apple. 
Vitality offered £50 compensation for the problems, but Ms G remained unhappy. She 
cancelled her policy via her direct debit because she couldnt get hold of Vitality and moved 
to a different insurance provider. Ms G referred a complaint to this service explaining the 
time and stress this has caused her. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. Based on the evidence he explained he 
wasnt able to fairly conclude where the fault lies with the problems with the app Ms G was 
experiencing. But he thought Vitality acted reasonably at attempting to resolve the issues, so 
Ms G hadnt lost out on the points and any potential discounts or benefits. 
Ms G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. In summary she said: 
The investigator hadnt taken account of her nightmare journey 
The £50 compensation wasnt enough to cover the time she had spent on this matter 
She was unhappy with the way her complaint was handled and she said there were 
faults within Vitalitys final response letter. 
So now the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Ms G has made reference to another complaint regarding a data breach, but this hasnt been 
considered as part of this complaint at this service.
Its not in dispute that Ms G was experiencing continued problems using the Vitality app. I 
can see from the submissions that the synchronization process between the Vitality app and 
Apple devices requires users to follow multiple instructions and do updates overs specific 
timeframes in order for the data to pull through. Rather than the data transferring over 
automatically.  
Vitality has acknowledged it isnt a convenient process and explained unlike some of the 
other activity tracking partners, the activity data from Apple devices isnt automatically sent 
through to them. Instead, Apple have given them permission to retrieve very specific 
information from their app. So whilst I appreciate its not ideal, Vitality are restricted by the 
specifications of Apples product and have to work within those parameters. All Vitality 
customers have to follow the same synchronization process. 
In Ms Gs case the cause of her repeated issues with app remains unclear. Vitality offered to
investigate the issue using a screen sharing service. I think this was a reasonable request 
and one I would expect in the circumstances. 
But Ms G didnt allow it the access to her device that it required. Whilst I understand Ms Gs 
personal reasons for not wanting to do this, it meant she continued to experience problems. 
It was Ms Gs choice not to allow Vitality the required access. And I dont think there was a 
reasonable alternative Vitality could have offered to allow it to investigate the problem here. 
It mustve been frustrating for Ms G to suffer so many technical issues with her app. Its clear 
to see the time she has spent contacting Vitality for assistance. So Im pleased that despite 
knowing the cause of the issue, Vitality manually added additional points to Ms Gs account, 
so she didnt lose out on potential discounts or benefits. Ms G was then upgraded to gold 
status, so I dont think she has been treated unfairly. 
Ms G is unhappy with the time she spent having to send over screenshots of her exercise. 
Although I understand this wouldve been time consuming, I think this was a reasonable 
alternative offered by Vitality to try and assist Ms G and ensure she wasnt losing out. 
I note Ms Gs comments about the handling of her complaint and the content of Vitalitys final 
response letters  which she says is incorrect and offensive. Although I appreciate some of the facts around communication and Ms Gs availability to speak may still be unclear, I dont 
consider Vitalitys responses to be unreasonable. 
Vitality offered £50 compensation for any errors in its communication throughout the 
process, which I think was reasonable. I appreciate the time Ms G spent herself trying to 
resolve the problem with the apps, but without knowing the cause of the problem it wouldnt 
be fair to ask Vitality to compensate her for this lost time. 
I think both parties here have done what they could to try and resolve Ms Gs technical 
problems and ensure she didnt miss out. Its a shame Vitality couldnt resolve the problem, 
but in the absence of access to Ms Gs device, I dont think this is unreasonable.
To summarise, despite not knowing the cause of Ms Gs technical issues, Vitality still always 
attempted to resolve Ms Gs technical problems and provided advice on how to prevent 
these happening in the future. It also manually added points and updated her status to gold, 
so she didnt lose out on any benefits. So overall I dont think Vitality treated Ms G unfairly. 
I know this will be disappointing to Ms G, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Vitality to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman