DRN-3641359
The complaint
Mr S complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) incorrectly cancelled his direct 
debit for his credit card account with them, resulting in an adverse entry being marked on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr S says he discovered his direct debit payment to his credit card account hadnt been 
collected in August 2021 and following a telephone call with Nationwide he was initially told 
this was cancelled because the direct debit was dormant. Mr S says after further complaints 
to Nationwide who had also informed him the direct debit was cancelled by his bank, he was 
finally told it was an error by Nationwide themselves. 
Mr S says although Nationwide have since arranged to remove the adverse credit marker on 
his credit file caused by its mistake, and paid him £125 by way of compensation, this doesnt 
go far enough to reflect the upset and trouble this has caused him. Mr S feels Nationwide 
shouldnt have suggested it was his error and its actions should be referred to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Nationwide says it accepts it made a mistake when it initially told Mr S the direct debit was 
dormant and then told him it had been cancelled by his bank. Nationwide says it has 
apologised, paid Mr S £200 in total for these errors and corrected the adverse entry on his 
credit file. Nationwide feel this is a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while accepting Nationwide had made a mistake it had apologised for that, 
corrected Mr Ss credit file and adequately compensated him. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to learn his direct debit to his credit 
card account had been cancelled without his knowledge, and then to be initially told 
incorrectly by Nationwide it wasnt their mistake. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwides steps to put things right and the 
level of compensation it has paid is fair and reasonable here. 
The first thing to say is Nationwide have accepted it has made mistakes here. Firstly, when it 
misinformed Mr S in a telephone call, the direct debit to his credit card was dormant and 
then compounded the problem after Mr S complained, by informing him the direct debit had 
been cancelled by his bank. Nationwide have since accepted it incorrectly cancelled the 
direct debit and to put things right have apologised, refunded late fees and interest, removed 
the adverse entry on his credit file and paid him a total of £200 by way of compensation.
Mr S is concerned Nationwide could have made such an error even after he complained, 
and it should have investigated the matter more thoroughly at the start. Mr S believes this is 
a serious mistake and it should be escalated further, and additionally the compensation 
doesnt reflect the trouble and upset this has caused him. 
I understand the points Mr S makes here and I can understand he feels strongly about what 
happened here and there isnt any question that he has been inconvenienced. That said my 
role is to determine if Nationwide have done enough to put matters right once a mistake like 
this occurs. 
Unfortunately, its fair to say from time to time mistakes can be made and its not my role to 
penalise businesses when it happens, but to see steps are taken to put things right and an 
appropriate level of redress is paid. Without trying to minimise the frustration this matter 
would undoubtedly have caused Mr S, there are occasions when individuals within a 
business will make a mistake and this is only put right once further evidence is provided by a 
third party, as it was here. 
From the information I have seen Nationwide passed the details of the issue to its root cause 
and quality assurance team to see if improvements can be made to its service, so its 
reasonable to say it has taken this matter seriously. I am satisfied that is sufficient level of 
escalation, given the nature of this complaint, but if Mr S feels he wishes to refer the matter 
to the FCA he is free to do so, but he should bear in mind it wouldnt ordinarily consider 
individual complaints of this type. 
I can also see Nationwide has taken steps to correct the adverse entry on Mr Ss credit file 
and I can see no evidence to suggest Mr S had been affected financially during the period 
this entry appeared on his credit file, and its not possible for me to consider what might have 
happened if the matter hadnt been resolved as Mr S refers to, after all it was corrected. 
As far as the compensation of £200 is concerned, while Mr S doesnt feel this goes far 
enough, as I have said earlier my role isnt to penalise businesses. With that in mind I am 
satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, and I also note the 
late payment fee and interest was also refunded by Nationwide here. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman