DRN-3437752
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) declined her claim 
for damage caused by water ingress following heavy rainfall. Miss Ps policy provided cover 
for both buildings and contents.
What happened
Miss P claimed under her policy after rainwater overflowing the gutter damaged the interior 
of her home. Miss P appointed a roofer to deal with the immediate problem and AA 
appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
The loss adjuster reported that the damage was due to long term water ingress through a 
gap in the guttering, not caused by a one-off storm. Miss P provided her roofers report 
which stated that the gutter had become blocked during the severe weather when sand and 
cement washed off her neighbours roof. The roofer reported that the blockage caused the 
rainwater to overflow the gutter and drain down the wall, causing interior damage.
AA remained of the view that the damage was not caused by a one-off event because the 
weather conditions at the time didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. It declined cover 
under the policy and Miss P complained.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint. She thought AA had unfairly declined Miss Ps 
claim because it didnt take into consideration the rainfall over the full day or other definitions 
of a wet storm. She also said the gap in the guttering AA referred to was a design issue 
which had been there for many years without incident. Therefore, our investigator thought 
the storm was the most likely cause of the damage. She recommended that AA consider the 
claim under the remaining terms of the policy and pay Miss P £200 compensation.
AA didnt agree. It said the policy clearly stated the definition of a storm and the weather 
conditions didnt meet that definition. AA also said there was no evidence of damage which 
was caused by a storm. It pointed out that interior damage would usually be considered 
under accidental damage cover, which Miss P didnt have.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
My remit is to look at whether AA declined Miss Ps claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and whether it was fair to do so in the circumstances.
AA declined Miss Ps claim for damage to the interior of her home following heavy rainfall for 
the following reasons:
The rainfall didnt meet the policy definition of storm conditions.
There was no evidence of damage which could be attributed to a one-off storm event 
in any case.
The surveyors report concluded that the interior damage was the result of an 
ongoing cause, which is not covered under the policy.
Was there a storm?
The policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as: a) Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots 
(55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale; b) torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; c) snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) 
in 24 hours; or d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
Looking just at the rainfall  the dispute cause - weather reports from the days before Miss P 
noticed the damage show that rainfall reached a maximum of 5.8mm per hour and a total of 
41.8mm over 24 hours. As the recorded levels fell short of the policy definition of a storm, Im 
satisfied that AA fairly declined the claim for the reason it gave.
Was there damage consistent with that caused by a storm?
Given that the weather data is only accurate to within a few miles of Miss Ps home, I cant 
be certain that the rainfall didnt meet storm conditions. So, Ive thought about whether it was 
fair to decline the claim in the overall circumstances. To do that, Ive looked at the expert 
reports provided by Miss Ps roofer and AAs field surveyor and considered whether there is 
evidence of damage consistent with that caused by a storm.
AAs surveyor reported the following:
The gutter is leaking where [it] meet the neighbours. The gutters are of two different 
types and therefore a perfect seal will never be able to be created. During the heavy rain, 
the gutter has leaked and saturated the wall below. There was no damage seen to any 
part of the roof or external that was due to an insured peril
In response to AAs report, Miss Ps roofer said:  
When we inspected the gutters, we found that the outlet was blocked with mortar and 
sand, which had washed across from the a-joining property which shares the outlet. The 
neighbours ridge tiles had been overpointed with a weak mix at some point and their 
gutter was also full of sand etc. This is what blocked the outlet, causing the rain water to 
run over the gutter the small gap in between the guttering on her property and that of 
the neighbouring property is only a couple of millimetres wide. This is a common finding 
and is not what caused the rain water to run over the guttering.
While the reason for the water overrunning the gutter in each report is different, the 
conclusion in each is the same  the water ran down the wall because of a problem with the 
gutter. AA told Miss P:
The surveyors report confirms that there is no evidence to support that there is damage 
to your roof that is a result of an insurable event as covered by your policy. Under your 
insurance policy, you are covered for certain one-off events, known as perils. Storm is 
one of these perils (or events), however we have not been able to identify any damage 
to your property under this peril on your policy. 
As the evidence provided by both AA and Miss P reaches the same conclusion  that the 
gutter overflowed - Im persuaded that AA fairly declined the claim because there was no 
evidence of damage attributable to a one-off storm event. That is, if there was a storm, it 
didnt damage the gutter which allowed the rainwater to overflow.
Was the damage caused mainly by a storm?
Miss P reported that the damage inside her home only appeared after the heavy rainfall. 
Therefore, she thought that AA should cover the damage under her policy. AAs declined 
cover for two reasons. It said the damage happened over time and Miss P didnt have 
accidental damage cover for her buildings.
Ive checked the policy and agree that Miss P didnt have cover for accidental damage to her 
buildings.
Moving on to the surveyors report, it concludes that, Water has seeped through the wall 
over a period of time and saturated the wall.
Miss Ps policy does not insure the following:
1.Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear 
and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
In response, Miss Ps roofer said, Over the years I have been to scores of properties where 
water running down a wall has passed through into the interior wall and caused damage, 
especially on stone buildings with narrow cavities.
Ive thought about the two opinions and looked at the accompanying photos of the damage. 
The damage inside Miss Ps home is significant. The paper has peeled away from the walls, 
there is staining, and wet patches are evident. The damage runs down the walls over both 
floors of the house and reaches what appears to be around two feet inwards along the wall. 
The damage appears to be consistent with an ongoing problem rather than a one-off event 
of heavy rainfall overflowing a gutter. And its worth noting that Miss Ps roofer hasnt 
indicated that water would pass through a wall to that extent in one day.
Based on the evidence, then, Im persuaded that AA fairly concluded the damage happened 
over time and is excluded from cover under the policy.
Im sorry that Miss P experienced this unfortunate damage to her home, but the evidence 
doesnt persuade me that AA unfairly declined her claim under her policy. Theres no 
evidence that a storm caused damage to the outside of Miss Ps home which then allowed 
rain to penetrate the wall causing sudden and unexpected water damage. As AA responded 
to her claim appropriately, giving reasons in line with the policy, I see no reason to ask AA to 
pay any compensation in respect of this matter.
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AA had nothing further to add. But Miss P responded to say she was unhappy with the 
outcome because her roofer hadnt been consulted, there was evidence of storm damage, 
and she thought AA was calling into question her integrity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint for the same reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill respond to her further comments now.
Miss P disputed AAs view that there was no evidence of damage caused by a storm. She 
said her roofers report clearly states the water breached the gutter because of the excessive 
rainfall and blockage. I have no reason to doubt that. But the gutter itself wasnt damaged by 
a storm, so the damage to the house wouldve been caused by the gutters failure rather 
than a storm.
I understand Miss P is unhappy that our service didnt contact her roofer. My role is to 
consider the evidence provided by each party and reach a decision about whether AA 
treated Miss P fairly when it declined her claim. Its not my role to seek out evidence to 
support one party or the other. However, because I reached a different decision to that of our 
investigator, I gave both Miss P and AA an opportunity to provide further evidence. Miss P 
hasnt provided anything further from her roofer for me to consider, so I see no reason to 
change my decision.
Miss P doesnt think AAs claim that the damage was caused over time can be 
substantiated. I considered the evidence provided by both the roofer and AAs surveyor. As I 
said in my provisional decision, Miss Ps roofer didnt say the damage seen could be caused 
in one day. And having seen the photos, Im persuaded by AAs evidence that a single day 
of heavy rainfall overspilling the gutter wouldnt have caused damage to the extent seen. 
While I realise Miss P will be unhappy with the outcome, the evidence persuades me that AA 
fairly declined her claim for the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman