DRN-2917791
Complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan DTW Associates Limited (trading as Auto Advance) 
provided to him. He says that the loan was unaffordable and hes also unhappy at the 
amount that hes been asked to repay.
Background
Auto Advance provided Mr K with a loan for £1,400.00 in July 2017. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 102 weekly instalments of £36.08. Mr K ran into difficulties repaying his loan and 
eventually complained that he shouldnt have been given the loan in the first place.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr K and Auto Advance had told us. And he thought 
that Auto Advance hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint 
and make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint.
Auto Advance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Auto Advance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr K could afford to make his repayments before providing him with this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Auto Advance provided Mr K with a loan for £2,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 102 weekly instalments of £36.08. Auto Advance says it agreed to Mr Ks 
application after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
and copies of bank statements Mr K provided and all of this information showed Mr K could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr K has said he wasnt in a good financial position at the time and 
should never have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr K and Auto Advance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Auto Advance has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches and the copies of bank statements it obtained at the time. Auto Advance 
searches appear to show that Mr K had had previous difficulties repaying credit. But these 
difficulties were historic as the defaults happened in 2014. And in July 2017, Mr K didnt owe 
much on his active lines of credit. Furthermore, the copies of the bank statements provided 
show that Mr K had sufficient disposable income to be able to comfortably make the weekly 
payments on this loan. 
I accept that Mr Ks actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Auto Advance obtained. I know Mr K says 
he didnt disclose the full amount of the outgoings that he paid to his wife and that he had a 
gambling problem. But as Mr K says he didnt disclose this and none of this showed up in 
the bank statements Mr K provided for consideration, I cant see how Auto Advance could 
reasonably be expected to have known about it when it decided to lend. 
It also worth noting that Auto Advance was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  albeit 
at a high rate of interest. And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, the lack 
of obvious inconsistencies and Auto Advance was reasonably entitled to rely on what Mr K 
had said and provided, I dont think that Auto Advance did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr K. It carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. So Im not upholding this part of Mr Ks 
complaint.
I now turn to what Mr K has said about the amount hes been asked to repay and how it 
differs from his initial agreement. The amount Mr K has been asked to repay differs from the 
amount on his loan agreement because of the court orders Auto Advance obtained and the 
associated costs of these. These amounts have been determined by the court. So it seems 
to me that Mr K ought to have disputed the amount hes been asked to repay as part of a 
defence to the legal proceedings Auto Advance brought against him. And I dont think it 
would now be fair for our service to now consider matters which should have been raised in 
court, because Mr K has now decided to make this complaint to us some time afterwards. 
Id also point out that as an informal and impartial service which exists to look at disputes 
between financial services providers and their customers there is a limit on what we can and 
should look at. Mr K is disputing an amount that the court has determined he needs to pay. 
As it is the court which determined this matter, Im satisfied the court is the more appropriate 
forum to decide on this part of Mr Ks complaint and Im therefore not upholding it.  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Auto Advance treated Mr K 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan or collecting payments in 
accordance with court orders. And Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman