DRN-3617015
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
provided him with credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr M in June 2018. He was to repay £181.08 every 
month for 24 months. The total he would repay was therefore £4,345.92.
Mr H says Everyday were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Everyday disagree. They say that when they approved the loan they completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks. They asked Mr M about his income and expenditure, checked his 
income by reviewing payslips and considered his bank statements. They also reviewed      
Mr Ms credit file and, having done that, they saw no reason not to advance the credit.
Our adjudicator didnt agree that the loan was affordable but Everyday thought it was. They 
said that Mr M had been trying to consolidate his debts, reduce his monthly outgoings and 
reduce his reliance on pay day loans and that the credit they were providing allowed him to 
do that.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I think Everyday completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan, 
but I think the information it collected should have told them the loan wasnt affordable.
Everdays own calculations suggested that after consolidation some debt, adding his new 
loan repayments, and taking Mr Ms expenses into account, hed only have £90.86 left as 
disposable income. He still had pay day loans on his credit file and had taken a new one. 
The presence of missed payments and a County Court judgment within the last twelve 
months would have alerted them to the fact that Mr M had been having difficulty managing 
his credit commitments and had been over reliant on credit. 
I dont accept that by providing a loan with an APR of over 249% they were likely to be 
improving Mr Ms position. The decision to lend increased Mr Ms indebtedness and the 
disposable income calculation suggested he would have very little left to fund his day to day 
activities. I think it should have been clear to Everyday that Mr M would be unlikely to be 
able to sustain payments towards this loan agreement. I dont think the loan was therefore 
affordable.
Putting things right
As I dont think Everyday should have approved the loan I dont think its fair for it to charge 
any interest or charges. However, Mr M has had the benefit of the capital he lent so I think 
he should pay that back. 
While I think its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial
history, I dont think its fair that he should be disadvantaged by Everyday Loans decision
to lend to him irresponsibly. Therefore, I think Everyday Loans should remove any negative 
information they have recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan.
If Everyday have sold the outstanding debt, they should buy it back, but if they are not able 
to buy the debt back, then should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the loan, and treat any
repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal
on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then
Everyday should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Everyday should try to agree an
affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Everyday shouldnt pursue outstanding
balances made up of principal they have already written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to deduct tax from this interest. They 
should give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if the 
consumer asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman