DRN-4171738
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Santander hasnt refunded the money it lost when its 
director fell victim to a scam in 2022. Mr S, director of A brings this complaint on As behalf. 
As Mr S made the relevant payments, in what follows I will predominantly be referring to him.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, and I will therefore 
restrict myself to a brief recap of the key elements. Likewise, in what follows I will focus on 
those elements I consider most relevant to the outcome at hand. In saying this though, I 
would like to assure Mr S and Santander that I have taken everything into consideration 
even if I have not specifically commented on it. The rules of this service permit me to do this.
In mid-2022, Mr S had posted online looking for work opportunities in the context of his role 
with A. He was contacted by email with a job offer working at a hospital in Dubai. It included 
details of a company (which I will refer to as O) that would supposedly be handling the 
immigration services.
Mr S was keen on the offer. He forwarded the offer email to someone he trusted who worked 
in a UK based recruitment consultancy. They said theyd never worked with the hospital or 
with O so couldnt comment. They said it looked genuine but said he should check reviews 
and speak with someone directly to be sure.
Mr S was told hed need to pay upfront for the application process. He sent a payment from 
As business account for the sum of £2,790 on 29 August 2022. Additional money was then 
requested. Mr S was told this was needed to cover the cost of insurance, visa costs and the 
creation of a bank account. He sent three further payments from As account between 
29 September and 31 October. 
Across all these disputed payments, Mr S sent a total of £15,238 from As account. These 
payments had all been made by bank transfer to a UK account. Unfortunately, neither the 
hospital nor the bank that Mr S believed hed been dealing with existed in reality. When Mr S 
later travelled out to Dubai, he realised hed been deceived.
In December 2022, Mr S reported the matter to Santander as having been fraudulent  an 
Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). Santander attempted to recover the money 
hed sent, but no funds remained to be retrieved.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from APP scams. Santander 
said it wouldnt refund A in full because it didnt think Mr S had taken enough steps to check 
he was paying a legitimate company for a legitimate service. But Santander thought it could 
have done more to protect A, and said it would refund 50% of the amount paid.
Mr S didnt accept this. One of Investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think 
Santander needed to pay more than it had already. She considered Mr S had made the 
payments without having held a reasonable basis for believing that the transactions were 
legitimate. In particular she highlighted that an online search for the hospital showed no 
results, except for an article from 2018 referring to a similar scam. Similarly, a search for O 
readily generated results indicating the company was fraudulent, describing again the same 
scam Mr S had fallen victim to. Finally, the bank Mr S believed hed opened an account with 
had no online presence or reviews.
Mr S didnt agree  he said that at the time of the scam the three businesses involved had 
fake websites which had now been taken down. But the Investigator didnt think this changed 
things.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In law, Santander has as a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it in accordance with the payment mandate. As a starting point, a customer 
is therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
But that isnt the end of the story. In particular, as Ive mentioned earlier, the voluntary CRM 
Code can provide additional protection where payments have been made as the result of an 
APP scam. Santander hasnt disputed that the additional protections of the CRM Code 
should apply here. Under the terms of the CRM Code, the bank has reimbursed A half of the 
money Mr S sent from its account.
Santander accepts partial fault, but it considers Mr S must equally share responsibility for the 
loss. So, what remains for me to determine is whether that is a fair outcome or if, on the 
contrary, Santander can fairly be required to repay the remaining balance.
The CRM Code wont always require a firm to refund payments in full. In particular, it says a 
firm can choose not to fully reimburse APP scam losses where the firm can establish that the 
customer made the transactions without having a reasonable basis for believing what they 
did - including that they were paying for a legitimate service. Santander seeks to rely on that 
here.
When considering if Santander has treated Mr S fairly in line with the CRM Code, I therefore 
must consider whether Mr S made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing this was for legitimate purposes. I have carefully considered everything Mr S has 
submitted as well as the evidence submitted by the bank.
There were some features here that I consider would have made the scam seem more 
believable. Mr S had received an email following an online posting hed made, meaning the 
contact wasnt completely unsolicited. He explains that the businesses involved had fake 
websites, and while these are not available now to me to view, I accept that seeing them 
helped Mr S to believe the businesses were real. And this was a relatively complex scam, 
with a number of different parties interacting with Mr S and working to deceive him.
But there were factors I think should have caused Mr S to have significant doubts about what was happening. On balance, I consider these were significant red flags that reasonably 
should have stopped him from going ahead, and from making the payments he ultimately 
made.
Firstly, while I appreciate Mr S had emailed someone he trusted for advice, that person 
asked him at the outset whether hed looked for reviews of the hospital  she hadnt heard of 
it. Nothing in that correspondence would reasonably lead to the conclusion shed carried out 
any research on Mr Ss behalf  rather she suggested Mr S should take those additional 
steps.
Had Mr S carried out searches online for reviews or external validation of the businesses he 
believed he was dealing with then I am satisfied he would have found the online reports of 
similar scams linked to both the hospital and to O. And I dont find he could reasonably have 
gone ahead if he had seen those  this would have alerted him to the scam that was 
occurring. 
In short, I think even that basic level of checking would have been sufficient to stop Mr S 
from proceeding any further. I dont find it reasonable to have relied simply on the 
organisations own websites without carrying out such further checks to validate the 
information those websites contained. This was a significant step Mr S was considering, and 
he was applying for a role at a hospital overseas that he presumably had no prior knowledge 
of (and which his trusted consultant had never dealt with). Nothing I have seen suggests that 
Mr S was unable or somehow prevented from carrying out additional checks, and he had 
been prompted to look for reviews by the person he asked for advice. 
I appreciate that Mr S was keen to take on the job opportunity. The remuneration and terms 
on offer were doubtless appealing. But Im not persuaded that he researched the matter at 
all thoroughly. The evidence simply doesnt support me reaching such a finding.
Mr S refers to the visit he made to Dubai. But that occurred after hed sent the payments 
now being disputed. What matters here is his basis for believing what he did at the time he 
made these payments  and what happened later does not have a bearing on that. 
Having reviewed everything, I am not satisfied that Mr S could be safely said to have had a 
reasonable basis for believing the service being offered was legitimate at the time these 
payments were made.
Ive considered the evidence here thoroughly including everything Mr S has said. But overall, 
Im satisfied that Santander has fairly established that the exception to full reimbursement 
under the CRM Code can be applied to Mr Ss payments from As account. 
Would Santander be liable to pay a higher award outside the CRM Code?
The CRM Code is a voluntary code that exists to provide additional protection where it is 
relevant. Mr S queries whether he would be entitled to more compensation if the CRM Code 
did not apply.
The CRM Code doesnt represent the full extent of obligations on Santander in relation to 
payments being made from an account  it exists specifically to provide additional 
protections to scam victims beyond those other obligations. So, ordinarily, that means 
greater protection is normally available under the terms of the code than outside its 
provisions. Nevertheless, I have carefully considered whether there are any other reasons 
here that might make Santander liable to a greater extent than the 50% it has already 
reimbursed.As noted earlier the primary obligation Santander had here, was to carry out the payment 
instruction Mr S gave (which it did). 
I have taken account of Mr Ss question about whether Santander has a legal liability to 
return the money he sent to this scam. When Santander learned that Mr S had made those 
payments as the result of fraud it did attempt to recover his money, but that had already 
been removed. I do not find it needed to do more here or that it fell short of regulatory 
obligations or legal liabilities in that respect.
Mr S also refers to an account he holds with an e-money provider, offering a buyer 
protection scheme. He explains he has received a refund from that provider in relation to 
another payment or payments. However, I cannot apply the terms of a proprietary buyer 
protection scheme to payments made from a business bank account held with another firm. 
Here I must consider what is applicable to As account with Santander, and that is how 
I must reach my finding  I cannot fairly require Santander to follow a buyer protection 
scheme that isnt in the terms of the account it provides. 
Nothing I have seen leads me to find Santander was otherwise at fault in relation to the rules 
and obligations applicable. And even if that wasnt the case, and I instead found Santander 
at fault outside the terms of the CRM Code then I dont consider the circumstances here 
could fairly and reasonably lead me to award a higher sum than has been returned to 
A already. 
Rather, I consider that, in reaching a fair outcome, I would need to reduce any such award to 
reflect contributory negligence (for reasons that are broadly similar to those I have set out 
above regarding having had reasonable basis of belief at the time of making the payments). 
And given the circumstances applying here, I consider that would lead me to find it both fair 
and reasonable that the overall loss should still be borne equally between Santander and A.
In summary, were I to set the CRM Codes provisions to one side, I dont find I could fairly 
require Santander to refund A by more than the 50% it has already for any other reasons.
Overall
With all of the above in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Santander 
needs to do more than it has already done, and it does not need to refund more than the 
50% it already has paid to A. I am sorry to hear about the situation that arose here, and that 
Mr S and A have been left significantly out of pocket as a result of this scam. I understand 
that this is not the outcome Mr S wants. But I can reassure Mr S that Ive carefully 
considered all the circumstances of his complaint before reaching what I consider to be the 
fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint about Santander UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman