DRN-1214751
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in July 1996. Mrs L says The Royal bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in July 1996. The policy was added 
to Mrs Ls credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy cost around 
75p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to twelve months if Mrs L 
wasnt working due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think RBS made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form that Mrs L completed nearly 25 years ago and I 
can see she ticked the section to confirm she wanted PPI before she checked and 
signed the credit agreement. And as the PPI appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements for many years, then I think if the policy had been added to her account 
without either her knowledge or her consent, Mrs L wouldve complained about this in 
the first few months after the account opened in 1996.
 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L  she chose to buy it herself on a postal 
application form. So RBS didnt have to check that the PPI was right for her. But it did 
have to give her enough information about the policy so she could decide for herself 
if she wanted it.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she told us she was employed and in good health  so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So RBS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs L paid for it. But RBS has already given Mrs L back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman