DRN-3742576
The complaint
Mr F says that he and Mrs F were misled into buying a points-based holiday club 
membership. Because their purchase was funded by a loan provided to him by Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, he says that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in the same way as the seller. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and I shall refer to it as BPF. Mr F is represented by a claims 
management business, which I shall refer to as S.
What happened
In October 2010 Mr and Mrs F entered into a contract with a company, which Ill call C, for 
the purchase of timeshare points. The purchase of points would entitle Mr and Mrs F to use 
holiday accommodation at certain resorts.
The cost of the points was funded partly by a loan provided to Mr F by BPF. The loan was 
settled in November 2011.
In or around September 2020 Mr and Mrs F complained to BPF through S. S said that the 
timeshare arrangement had been mis-sold to its clients. Because the contract had been 
funded by BPF, it was liable for the mis-sale. The elements of the sale which formed the 
basis of the complaint included:
Resorts and accommodation were frequently unavailable.
The management fees had increased significantly.
The weeks which Mr and Mrs F had been sold were not fixed but were floating.
Mr and Mrs F had been told that the value of their points would increase.
The terms of the contract were unfair within the meaning of The Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
The arrangements were in breach of relevant timeshare regulations.
The loan created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
BPF had not carried our proper credit checks before agreeing the loan.
S referred it to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened but did 
not recommend that the complaint be upheld. The investigators reasoning was, in summary, 
that BPFs response to the claim was reasonable, given the length of time that had passed 
since the sale of the timeshare points.
S did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
My provisional conclusions
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision at the end of August 2022. I invited 
further submissions before I issued a final decision. In my provisional decision, I said:
The complaint that BPF had not carried out a proper credit assessment before agreeing 
to the loan was not one that the Financial Ombudsman Service had any power to 
consider. We cannot generally consider a complaint which is referred to us more than 
six years after the event complained of or, if later, more than three years after the 
complaint knew or ought reasonably to have known that they had cause for complaint. 
Mr F had referred his complaint to us some ten years after the loan was granted.
The same applied to the complaint about the fairness of the loan terms and the claim 
that they were unfair within the meaning of UTCCR. The terms were agreed in 2010 
and the loan was repaid in 2011, but the complaint was not referred to this service until 
the end of 2020. 
I noted too that UTCCR excludes from an assessment of fairness any term which 
relates to the price of goods or services. Mr F said the loan was unfair because the 
interest rate was high; in my view, the interest rate was part of the price of the loan. 
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual period for bringing a claim under sections 104A 
and 104B of the Consumer Credit Act was six years from the date on which credit 
relationship came to an end. The loan in this case was repaid in 2011, some nine years 
before any claim was made. I thought it likely therefore that a court would conclude that 
any action seeking relief under sections 104A and 104B would be out of time and that 
BPFs response was therefore reasonable.   
I had approached the complaint on the basis that C and BPF had the necessary 
relationship such that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act might apply. That is, I had 
done so on the basis that the loan had been arranged under pre-existing arrangements 
between C and BPF. That meant that, if Mr F had a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against C, he had a like claim against BPF. 
I thought it likely that a court would conclude that any action for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract that Mr F might bring against C would be out of time as well. It 
followed that BPF had acted fairly in declining Mr Fs claims.    
Response to my provisional decision
S made further submissions in response to my provisional decision, as I had invited the 
parties to do.
S referred to the Timeshare Act 1992, the Timeshare Regulations 1997 and the Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (which replaced the 
1992 Act). The two sets of regulations implemented EU Directives.
S said that the 1992 Act applied in this case and argued that it required C to provide details 
of the accommodation which was the subject of a timeshare agreement and the exact period 
within which the right to occupy the accommodation could be exercised. C had not provided 
that information.S also said that, because the necessary information had not been provided, one effect of the 
1992 Act was that Mr F had three months and ten days in which to withdraw from the 
agreement. And C was not entitled to request any payment from Mr F during the cancellation 
period.
S said that a person who was in contravention of the provisions relating to cancellation and 
advance payments was guilty of an offence. S also submitted that a contravention of the 
provisions of the 1992 Act constituted a breach of contract of both the purchase agreement 
and of the loan agreement. It said too that BPF owed Mr F a duty of care to ensure that C 
did not breach the 1992 Act.
On the issue of time limits, S said that Mr F did not know about the breaches of the 
Timeshare Act until he had taken legal advice in 2020. For that reason, section 14A of the 
Limitation Act applied. The relevant limitation period under that section runs from the date on 
which the claimant knew he had a cause of action.
S also submitted in response to my provisional decision a decision of the Upper Tribunal 
involving BPF, a large number of its customers, and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The decision records that BPF had entered into credit agreements to finance the purchase of 
timeshares in Malta in 2014 to 2016. The loans had been brokered by a company which did 
not have the necessary authorisation to do so from the regulator. BPF had applied to FCA 
under the relevant provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) for a 
validation order so that  notwithstanding the brokers lack of authorisation  it could enforce 
nearly 1,500 loan agreements which that broker had arranged.
The FCA granted that authorisation, and the borrowers appealed. Before the Upper Tribunal 
could hear the appeal, BPF agreed to refund interest and charges on the loans and, later, to 
refund all payments made. The Upper Tribunals decision dealt with the procedural issue of 
how any further claims for compensation (in addition to refunds under the loan agreements)  
should be handled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about the credit assessment
Our rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years 
of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in or about October 2020. Mr J did not suggest at any point when the loan was 
live that he was having difficulty making repayments. If he was, he would have known by 
the end of 2011, when the loan was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should 
have been referred to this service by no later than October 2016. Because it was not, we 
have no power to consider it.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender.I indicated in my provisional decision that, whilst the exact relationship between C and BPF 
was not clear, I had approached this case on the basis that the necessary conditions were 
met.
I should add that I have also approached the case on the basis that sections 19 and 56 of 
the Consumer Credit Act apply. That is, the contract with C and the loan agreement were 
linked agreements (section 19), and, in negotiating with Mr F, C was acting as agent for 
BPF.
Misrepresentation claims
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract, which is untrue, and which induces the other party into a contract. Mr F has set 
out the various statements made to him and his wife and which led them to agree to buy the 
holiday club membership. They were all made on or before 19 October 2010, so that is the 
date on which any cause of action accrued.
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. No 
claim was made until S wrote to BPF, more than ten years later. I think it very likely therefore 
that a court would conclude that any action started now against C would be outside the time 
limit in the Limitation Act.
S says that, where the claim is in negligence, under section 14A of the Limitation Act the six 
year period is extended by up to three years from the point at which the claimant had the 
knowledge needed to bring a claim. S says that Mr F did not know he had a claim until he 
sought advice from S.
Section 14A is mainly relevant where damage is not apparent until some time after the 
negligent act. That might apply where, for example, negligent investment advice is given but 
losses do not arise until many years later, or where the effects of negligent medical 
treatment do not develop for many years. Those examples are very different from what 
happened here.
In presenting his case, Mr F said that he had been misled about: the availability of resorts 
and accommodation; the floating nature of the holiday periods; the management fees; and 
the likely increase in value of the holiday points.  
In my view, that does not indicate that Mr F and his wife noticed after many years that (on 
their case at least) they had been misled at the point of sale. Rather, it suggests that the 
issues had arisen over and been present for several years  and that they knew about them. 
In the circumstances, I think it likely that a court would conclude that any action in 
misrepresentation claim that might be brought against C was made outside the relevant 
limitation period.
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. This service does not have the same powers, but I must 
have regard to sections 104A and 104B in considering Mr Fs complaint. 
As I have indicated, this service cannot usually consider a complaint which is referred to us 
more than six years after the event complained of or, if later, more than three years after the complainant knew he had cause for complaint. S has not really explained why the loan 
agreement creates an unfair relationship here, but Mr F would have known what the loan  
terms were, including the payments required, its term, and the interest rate. It is possible 
therefore that this service has no power to consider this part of the complaint.
Under the Limitation Act 2010, a claim of this nature can be brought up to six years from the 
date on which the credit agreement ended. In this case, the loan was repaid towards the end 
of 2011.
I do not therefore believe that this service has any power to consider this part of the 
complaint. I also think it likely that a court would conclude that any claim brought now would 
be out of time under the relevant parts of the Limitation Act. In any event, I have seen 
nothing that would persuade me that the loan agreement did create an unfair relationship 
between Mr F and BPF.
Timeshare Act claims
S says that C was in breach of certain provisions of the Timeshare Act and that, as a 
consequence, both the contract with C and the loan agreement are void. S also argues that 
any breach of the Act on the part of C was a breach of contract and that BPF owed Mr F a 
duty of care to ensure C complied with the Act  and was negligent in not doing so.
S says that Mr J would not have known about any breaches of the Timeshare Act until S 
advised him about its provisions. Any limitation period is therefore subject to section 14A of 
the Limitation Act.
Mr Fs contract with C was for the purchase of a points-based club membership. Ss 
submissions say that the membership did not meet the definition of a timeshare. I agree with 
that assessment. The definition of timeshare accommodation in the Timeshare Act refers to 
specific accommodation or a pool of accommodation to which that accommodation belongs. 
There was no specific property or pool of property attached to Mr Fs agreement with C; nor 
did Mr and Mrs F have specified times at which they could use accommodation. Rather, their 
membership entitled them to book a range of accommodation at a large number of resorts at 
different times of the year.
The effect of that is not, in my view, that the contract had to comply with the Timeshare Act 
but did not do so. Rather, it was that the Timeshare Act did not apply to the contract, so that 
the contract did not have to comply with it. It seems to me as well that Mr and Mrs F did not 
believe that there was a particular property or time attached to the contract. Indeed, part of 
their original complaint was that the choice of destinations and accommodation had been 
reduced.
The 2010 Regulations replaced the 1992 Act and cover a wider range of holiday contracts, 
including many holiday club arrangements. They did not however apply when Mr F entered 
into the contract with C. In the circumstances, I do not need to discuss the 1992 Act any 
further. I would simply note however that a breach of regulations which carry a criminal 
sanction (as the Timeshare Act did) does not automatically give rise to a breach of contract 
or make a contract void. The consequences of a breach of regulations are generally set out 
in those regulations, especially where a third party is involved. An example of that is shown 
by the Upper Tribunal decision which I discuss below.
In addition, I am not persuaded that BPF owed Cs customers a duty of care to ensure that C 
complied with any relevant regulations.
The Upper Tribunal DecisionI have summarised above the decision which S submitted as part of its response to my 
provisional decision. It stems from the brokering by an unauthorised entity of a large number 
of BPF loans. In such circumstances, FSMA provides that a loan is unenforceable  
although the lender can seek permission to enforce it, as BPF did.
At the time of the loan which is the subject of this complaint, however, C did not need to be 
authorised by the FCA. It did however have the necessary consumer credit licence, issued 
by the Office of Fair Trading, and was subject to this services consumer credit jurisdiction. 
The Tribunals decision arose therefore from a different regulatory regime from that to which 
C was subject in 2010. Further, the decision was concerned primarily with procedural 
matters after BPF had agreed to provide refunds to all affected customers.
I would however note that there does not appear to have been any suggestion that BPF 
owed borrowers a duty of care to ensure the broker was authorised. Rather, FSMA allowed 
BPF to apply to the FCA so that it could enforce the agreements  an application which was 
successful. That is, FSMA sets out the consequences for BPF and customers of that 
particular breach on the part of a broker.
Conclusions
I stress that it is not for me to say whether Mr F has a justifiable claim or claims against C  
whether for breach of contract, misrepresentation or under any relevant regulations. Nor is it 
for me to say whether any such claims might be out of time under the Limitation Act. That is 
a matter for a court to decide if any action is started. Rather, I must consider BPFs response 
to the complaints made on behalf of Mr J.
I have concluded that the complaint about the credit assessment was made outside our own 
time limits. I have no power to consider it.
Given the passage of time and other issues I have discussed above, I believe that BPF
acted reasonably in declining to uphold Mr Fs complaints about other matters.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman