DRN-3378821
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the level of spouses pension benefit hes been quoted by Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). Mr A had understood that his spouse would be 
entitled to 50% of the pension he received.
What happened
Mr A was a member of a pension scheme Ill call C between 1967 and the winding-up of the 
scheme by Cs trustees in 2006. C was bought-out by L&G in April 2006, by which point Mr 
A had already retired. In brief, Cs terms stated that in the event of a primary annuitants 
death, their spouse would be entitled to 50% of the pension they were receiving at the date 
of their death. 
In October 2020, Mr A got in touch with L&G to request a statement of his spouses pension. 
L&G provided Mr A with a statement showing that at that point, his spouses pension would 
be £8854.92 (before tax) per year. If an annuitants spouse was more than 10 years their 
junior, then L&G said it would deduct 2.5% for each year in excess of the 10-year age 
difference.
Mr A was concerned by the spouses benefit statement, as prior to the age deduction, his 
spouse would only be entitled to around 42% of his pension amount. He provided L&G with 
information from C dated from the time of its winding-up, which stated that L&G would pay 
benefits on the same basis it had done. And he said that he hadnt received any benefit 
statement from L&G at the time of the buy-out or thereafter, until hed requested the 
information in October 2020.
L&G told Mr A that the spouses benefit was in line with the agreement itd secured with Cs 
trustees at the time of the buy-out. It said that once the pension entitlements had been 
secured between C and L&G, C was closed, and its scheme rules no longer applied. 
Mr A remained unhappy with the level of spousal pension benefit hed been quoted and so 
he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. Hed reviewed the terms of 
the (confidential) agreement between Cs trustees and L&G. He was satisfied that the 
agreement reflected a spouses pension of £5489.02 at Mr As state retirement age. He felt 
that L&G had purchased the pension fund - and therefore agreed Mr As spouses pension - 
in line with the terms of that agreement. He concluded that Cs scheme rules no longer 
applied following the winding-up of the scheme. Hed also seen a copy of a benefit statement 
which L&G had sent Mr A in 2010, which set out the level of spouses pension. Overall, he 
felt L&G had treated Mr A fairly.
Mr A disagreed. He felt that L&G may have acted in line with its legal requirements, but that 
it hadnt acted in line with the wishes of Cs trustees. He later provided a statement from a 
former trustee which stated that theyd understood the spouses pension to be 50% of the 
employees pension. They also say their understanding would appear to be confirmed by an 
augmentation to pensions that resulted from the scheme having surplus assets following the 
buy-out. They say this because the augmented pensions included a 50% spouses benefit. 
Mr A said he understood a 50% spouses pension was standard in such policies. He also 
queried whether his and other scheme members benefits had been calculated correctly by 
L&G, as it hadnt set out the formula itd used to calculate the benefits. And Mr A stated that 
he hadnt received the benefit statement from L&G in 2010. He felt that payers of annuities 
should be legally obliged to clarify the benefits at the beginning of payments.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
As Ive set out above, L&G provided us with a copy of a benefit statement which it said had 
been sent to Mr A in June 2010. This statement detailed Mr As spouses pension 
entitlement. Therefore, it appeared that Mr A might have brought his complaint to us outside 
of the time limits set out in our rules and which we are bound by. Briefly, these rules say that 
we cant consider a complaint which has been brought to us more than six years after the 
event complained about, or, if later, more than three years from the date a complainant 
became aware or ought reasonably to have become aware, of cause for complaint. 
In this case, the buy-out of Cs scheme clearly happened more than six years ago. And so I 
needed to consider whether the sending of the 2010 benefit statement ought to have put Mr 
A on notice that the applicable spouses pension benefit was lower than the 50% he believed 
would be paid. And accordingly I then needed to think about whether Mr A should have 
made a complaint about that issue within the relevant time limits. 
However, we can consider a complaint outside of our time limits if a financial business 
consents for us to do so. L&G has now consented to me making a decision on the merits of 
this complaint, which Ill go on to explore.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think L&G has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr A that while Ive summarised his detailed submissions to us and 
the background to his complaint, Ive carefully considered all that hes said and sent us. In 
this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes made and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its also important I make clear my role. Whilst I appreciate Mr A has concerns about the way 
L&G has calculated the pension benefits for other members of this particular scheme, my 
consideration is necessarily limited to looking at whether L&G treated Mr A fairly. Thats 
because our role is to look at individual complaints brought by consumers who feel that a 
financial business we cover has done something wrong which has caused them to lose out. 
And that means the evidence Ive considered necessarily relates to Mr A alone. If other 
members of this scheme have similar concerns to Mr A, its open to them to ask us to look 
into their complaints once L&G has had the chance to do so.
Mr A feels strongly that as Cs scheme rules stated that spouses pensions would be paid at 
50% of an annuitants pension at the date of their death, it follows that the former trustees of 
the scheme wouldve wished this provision to apply following the transfer of the assets from 
C to L&G. Hes provided a statement from a former trustee (and signatory to the agreement 
with L&G) which broadly supports this position.The 2006 agreement was made between L&G and Cs trustees and this agreement formed 
the terms of the buy-out contract. This means that Mr A didnt enter into a direct agreement 
with L&G at the time C was wound-up. Accordingly, both Cs trustees and L&G were legally 
bound by the terms of the agreement they signed. Regardless of what the wishes of an 
individual trustee may have been at the time of negotiations (and it is possible that Mr A has 
ended up with the pension entitlement he should always have done), a contractual 
agreement was reached and set out the terms of the pension entitlements which were 
secured for Cs scheme members.
Ive seen a copy of the relevant part of the agreement between Cs trustees and L&G. Im 
afraid that Im unable to share this with Mr A, as its commercially sensitive information and 
therefore, its confidential. I do understand why Mr A would like to see the applicable terms 
(and I understand L&G did provide him with an extract of it), but I hope it reassures him to 
know that I have looked at this information carefully. 
What I can tell Mr A is that Ive checked the pension amount the trustees secured for both 
him and for his spouse at the time the agreement was made. This part of the contract was 
specific to Mr A and set out his personal calculations. L&G agreed to purchase Mr As 
spouses pension at an amount of £5489.02 (with no spouses pension additional voluntary 
contributions). Mr As pension at that point was purchased at an annual amount of 
£13537.80 (with an offset of £1484.60 and an adjustment for GMP of £1,753.96). What this 
evidence shows then is that L&G didnt enter into a contract with Cs trustees to provide a 
spouses pension on 50% benefit terms.
The spouses pension amount would rise in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI) up to a 
maximum of 5% per year. Accordingly, the spouses benefit Mr A was quoted in October 
2020 had increased since the buy-out in 2006. And while I appreciate Mr A told us that he 
didnt receive the statement of benefits L&G says he was sent in 2010, it appears from that 
statement that four years on, the value of the spouses pension would be £6600.48 per 
annum. Again, this did not represent 50% of Mr As applicable pension amount at that time 
but did indicate that the pension benefit had risen over the course of the previous four years.
In my view then, the evidence shows that L&G has quoted Mr As spouses pension in line 
with the terms of the contract it agreed with Cs trustees in 2006. Theres no indication in the 
contract terms that L&G was bound to apply the provisions of Cs scheme rules or that it was 
agreeing to pay a spouses pension at a 50% level. And once C was wound-up, its scheme 
rules no longer applied, and L&G was reasonably and legally entitled to follow the terms of 
its agreement with C.
Its common ground that Cs trustees sent the scheme members a letter at the time of buy-
out which stated that benefits would remain unchanged. And I dont doubt that Mr A placed 
some reliance on this information and was very disappointed when he learned that in fact, 
this wasnt the case for spouses pensions. But I dont think I could fairly hold L&G 
responsible for any communications made by Cs trustees at that point, or any loss of 
expectation that followed once the spouses pension terms became known.
Mr A also feels that there should be a legal obligation on pension providers to send benefit 
statements at the outset. I agree that it mightve been helpful if L&G had sent Mr A a benefit 
statement sooner than it did. This may have helped to manage Mr As expectations about his 
spouses potential benefit at an earlier point. 
I did ask L&G why it had taken until 2010 to provide Mr A with such a benefits statement. It 
told me that it this was because it took some time to finalise the buy-out and be in a position 
to produce and issue the personalised policy information which it says was sent to Mr A in 
June 2010.Even if I did think L&G ought reasonably to have sent Mr A a benefit statement much sooner 
than it did, its difficult to reasonably find that Mr A has lost out as a result. Thats because 
L&G had already purchased the fund from C. And the spouses benefit had already been set 
as part of the contractual agreement with L&G and the trustees. This means Mr A was 
effectively locked-in to the terms of contract which had been agreed between L&G and the 
trustees. And it appears that Mr As annuity was already in payment at that point. 
Accordingly, I think Mr A had little choice but to accept the terms of the scheme with L&G 
and this wouldve been the case even if he had known about the terms of the spouses 
benefit in 2006. It follows then that Im not persuaded that even if Mr A had been sent a 
benefit statement much sooner than it seems he was, he wouldve been in a position to do 
anything differently (although I do appreciate it might have been easier to have found out 
why his spouses pension was set at the level it was had his investigations started earlier).
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr As position, as I appreciate hes very 
disappointed by the available spouses pension, I find that L&G has treated him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman