DRN-3137230
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him a level term assurance 
policy that he didnt need.
What happened
In 2010, Mr J started a level term assurance policy which was provided by Aviva. The policy 
provided cover of £500,000 over a period of 20 years for a monthly premium of £19.51.
In 2019, Mr J complained. He said hed visited a Post Office branch and received advice that 
he should look into life insurance as it would be beneficial for him. He felt hed been mis-sold 
the policy because of the amount of cover and term as, at the time, he lived at home with his 
parents and had no dependants. He asked for a refund of his premiums.
 
But Aviva said that Mr J hadnt received financial advice from a representative of Aviva. It 
said Mr J had been provided with an information pack including the plan document and key 
features which confirmed the monthly premium of £19.51 was payable for 20 years. This 
also confirmed that it was payable upon death or acceptance of a terminal illness claim, and 
there would be no surrender payment or cash-in value. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld on 
the basis that Mr J had received advice and a recommendation to start this policy. The 
investigator said that Mr J was a university student at the time; he lived with his parents and 
was single with no dependants. The investigator thought that the policy was unsuitable for 
Mr J at that stage of his life.
However, Aviva responded to confirm that the policy had been taken out during a telesales 
call where information was taken from Mr J for a quotation and the policy application, but 
that it hadnt provided him with advice about the suitability of the policy for him. It said that 
Mr J had been sent the information about the plan directly, and that it was set up without 
commission being paid to any party.
The investigator then revised his opinion. He said he felt Aviva had provided Mr J with 
information for him to make his own decision about whether to start the policy. He said that, 
as he couldnt see that a recommendation was made to Mr J, he didnt think it should be 
Avivas responsibility to put things right. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. He 
questioned why he would have picked a policy for the amount cover over a short term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Js recollections about how he came to take out this policy. Aviva has said 
that some Post Offices didnt have the ability to set up a term assurance policy, so a call 
would be made to Aviva, which is what happened in Mr Js situation. And this matches with 
part of Mr Js recollection about the process to take out the policy. 
The information Aviva has provided suggests that the details for the quotation and policy 
application was taken from Mr J in that call, but not that Aviva gave Mr J any advice or a 
recommendation about whether taking out such cover would be right for his circumstances 
at that time. 
I can see that Mr Js quotation and application was produced on the same day, and that the 
details of these were posted to him along with his plan documentation; the key features and 
his right to change his mind about starting the policy. 
Aviva has also provided information to show that there was no introducer or agency involved 
in the setting up of Mr Js policy and has told us that no sales commission was paid for it.
 
Overall, I dont think the information suggests that Aviva provided Mr J with advice on the 
suitability of the level term assurance for him at the time he started it. Instead it seems Mr J 
was provided with the information about the policy; its costs and cover, and it was for him to 
decide whether to go ahead with it. And its because of this that I dont think Mr Js complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman