DRN-3031270
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Miss Ms complaint.      
summary and background to complaint
Miss M said MBNA Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card in 2006.
MBNA didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Miss M had referred the complaint to us too late.  
 
But MBNA did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Miss Ms PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Miss M about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Miss Ms complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought MBNAs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case MBNA hasnt agreed.  
Miss Ms complaint was made in January 2019. This is more than six years after MBNA sold 
the policy to her  in October 2006  which is the event shes complaining about here. So I 
need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Miss M 
should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
MBNA says it sent Miss M a letter in September 2013 which alerted her to the possibility 
something might have gone wrong with her policy sale. Given what Miss M is complaining 
about, I think she should reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain when 
she got this letter. I say this because Miss M has complained, amongst other things, that the 
exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions werent explained to her and this is one of 
the issues highlighted in the letter.
Three years from the letter is September 2016.  This means Miss M needed to make her 
complaint about the policy sale by then. As she didnt complain until 2019, her complaint is 
out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Miss M hasnt given any reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Miss M with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that MBNAs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Miss M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Miss M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Miss M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Miss M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Miss M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing 
the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss M paid for her PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that MBNAs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As MBNA has already paid Miss M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
my decisionIm unable to consider Miss Ms complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that MBNA 
Limited should pay Miss M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As MBNA 
Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 7 January 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman