DRN-2918887
The complaint
Ms F complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (ACA) sold her a hire purchase 
agreement based on an annual mileage of 5,000 when she had asked for it to be based on 
10,000 miles a year. When she voluntarily terminated the agreement in December 2020 the 
lender asked for £751 to cover excess mileage. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
ACA acted a broker and has sold several cars to Ms F in the past. The finance came from a 
lender I will call V. Ms F explained that her role at work had changed and while she had 
been happy with a 5,000-mile annual limit in the past she wished her new deal to allow for 
10,000 miles a year.
ACA says that she signed up for the 5,000-mile limit. The procedure had changed since her 
last acquisition and it was done by computer with her signature added electronically. Ms F 
says she paid £86 a month more than her previous agreement and this was due to the 
increased mileage. ACA has supplied this service with a copy of her previous agreement 
and this shows that her old monthly payments were £211.54 compared to £256.72 for the 
new one. I note she borrowed £13,289 on the previous car and £15,432 for the new one. 
This would explain the increased repayments.
I am satisfied that the document Ms F signed, albeit electronically, showed the annual 
mileage to be 5,000. I cannot say what was said at the time of the purchase but the 
documentary material shows the agreement was for 5,000 miles. V says it sent her copy of 
the agreement so it was available for her to read and challenge at the outset.
I also think it important to note that had she taken out an agreement for 10,000 miles then 
her monthly payments would have been greater. Although the extra sum has come as a 
shock to her she will end up paying close to what she would have paid had the agreement 
been for 10,000 miles.
So while I have every sympathy with Ms F I cannot safely conclude that ACA did anything 
wrong. The outstanding sum is due to V and while it is not party to this decision it is open to 
Ms F to remind it that it should treat her positively and sympathetically in helping her resolve 
her financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman