DRN-3826768
The complaint
Miss G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her account without notice and left her 
without access to funds. She wants a reason for the closure.
What happened
Miss G had an account with Lloyds.
Following a review of Miss Gs account. Lloyds decided to close the account and sent 
Miss G a letter on 3 September 2021 giving her 60 days notice. Miss G was living abroad 
and hadnt updated her address with Lloyds, so the letter went to her previous address.
Miss G realised her account was closed when she wasnt able to access internet banking 
and because Miss G was abroad, she wasnt able to go into branch to get information about 
what had happened.
Lloyds sent the closing balance by cheque to Miss Gs previous address. Miss G eventually 
received the balance in her account on 17 February 2022.
When Miss G complained to our service one of the investigators looked into the complaint. 
He said Lloyds hadnt provided reasons why the account had been closed and therefore it 
was difficult to see if they had acted fairly. Our investigator thought Miss G should have 
informed Lloyds of her change of address and as Lloyds werent aware they couldnt be held 
liable for Miss G not receiving the Notice to close letter or the cheque with the balance. 
Because Miss G was abroad the closure had a greater impact on her and she had been 
given the wrong phone number to call. Our investigator thought Lloyds should pay Miss G 
£150 for distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Lloyds agreed with the view.
Miss G was unhappy with the view. She didnt think £150 was enough compensation for the 
way she had been treated. She said she thought her account had been closed by Lloyds 
because she had complained about a previous payment not crediting correctly.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed that Lloyds could have done things better, I wont go into that 
aspect of the complaint.
Miss G is unhappy with the amount of compensation awarded to her so I will limit myself to 
considering what is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case.
Firstly, I would address Miss Gs point that Lloyds closed her account without any notice. 
I can see that Lloyds gave Miss G 60 days notice to close her account. They sent her a 
letter to the address they had for her on file. This is what I would have expected them to do. I 
appreciate that Miss G didnt receive her notice as she had moved away and hadnt updated 
Lloyds with her new address. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds gave Miss G notice of the closure 
of her account even though she didnt receive it. I cant hold Lloyds responsible for Miss G 
not updating her address. And Im satisfied that Lloyds gave Miss G the required notice in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss G has said she wants to know why her account was closed. She is unhappy she hasnt 
been given a reason. I accept this is frustrating for Miss G but Lloyds isnt obliged to give her 
reasons for the closure of her account so I cant say theyve done anything wrong for not 
giving her a specific reason as much as shed like to know.
As the investigator explained Lloyds havent given us information for the reason why they 
gave Miss G 60 days notice to close the account.
Miss G thinks her account was closed because she had made a complaint to Lloyds 
previously and queried a payment that hadnt arrived at its destination. She has told us she 
was awarded £170 compensation for this issue. 
Miss G is a long-standing customer of Lloyds, and she feels that she has been badly treated 
by them. Miss G has sent us information and correspondence about her dispute with Lloyds 
regarding payments she made in April and May 2021. She believes that Lloyds made an 
error and in order to cover this up they decided to close her account In November 2021. She 
feels that £150 is not sufficient for the damage that was caused to her health. 
Miss G has told us about issues she had with Lloyds regarding previous payments. That isnt 
the subject of this complaint so I cant comment whether Lloyds made any errors. However, I 
have looked at the case notes provided by the bank, and I can see no evidence that Lloyds 
closed Miss Gs account in order to cover up an error. 
Lloyds have said that the closure is in line with their terms and conditions and was a 
commercial decision. Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. But because Lloyds havent 
provided us with any reason for the closure its not possible for me to decide if they have 
applied their terms and conditions fairly. And that means compensation is due in this case.
The investigator awarded Miss G £150 for the inconvenience that was caused to her for the 
closure of the account. I know Miss G has said she wants more, but I think this is a fair 
amount and in line with our awards in these types of cases. In deciding this I have taken into 
account that Miss G was given the wrong phone number to ring but I have also taken into 
account that she contributed to the issues she encountered by not having updated her 
address. 
Putting things right
I appreciate that Miss G will be disappointed with my decision but looking at the evidence Im 
satisfied that £150 is reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this complaint and I 
see no reason to award any more.My final decision
For the reasons stated above I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss G £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her for the closure of her account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman