DRN-3673923
The complaint
Mr B says The Co-operative Bank Plc acted unreasonably when it refused to transfer £600 
from his account, or to allow him to make a cash withdrawal of the same value. 
What happened
On 26 January 2022 The Co-op Bank declined to transfer £600 from Mr Bs account to a 
third-partys business account, also held at The Co-op Bank. It also said it would prevent him 
from taking out the same amount in cash either at the counter, or via an ATM. Mr B says he 
has increasingly been asked to justify his transactions in his local branch and this time he 
was referred to the manager. He has repeatedly explained he pays for stock for a friends 
business. He says this time the manager refused to believe him, accused him of aiding a 
scammer, asked for proof of the purpose of the payment, and was arrogant and rude. He 
asks how can it be legal for the bank to refuse to give him his own money without a valid 
reason, or evidence, to support its decision. Mr B thinks the bank neglected its duty of care 
to both parties involved in the transaction.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said the bank has a responsibility to 
protect its customers if it is concerned they maybe victim to some kind of fraud or scam, and 
that was the case here. It has provided a copy of the policy and processes its branch 
employees must follow and she was satisfied its actions complied with these guidelines. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He said it was 
unreasonable to ask that he evidence the transfer was legitimate  why didnt the bank have 
to produce evidence to the contrary. There were no reasonable grounds to refuse the 
transfer. He has been with the bank since 1951 so the bank should know all it needs to 
about him. He disputes that there was any agreement made that he would return the next 
day with more information. And our assessment doesnt comment on the banks duty of care 
to Mr B or the third-party - and the bank is aware of her circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think it most likely 
given the evidence we have and the wider circumstances.
I am not upholding Mr Bs account. Ill explain why.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a payment the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud, a scam or 
any other criminal act. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable enquiries including 
but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment instruction.
Against those obligations however, the bank also has a contractual duty to execute a valid
and proper order to fulfil its customers instructions.
This means when Mr B asked to transfer £600 I think it is reasonable The Co-op Bank 
wanted to find out more about his reasons for doing this. Mr B has submitted his 
recollections of the hour he spent with the branch manager discussing the transaction. And 
the branch manager has done the same. Both parties agree that Mr B said the money was 
for a friends business. Mr B recalls he said it was for stock and I can see he feels he had 
therefore satisfactorily answered the question. 
But the manager says he was concerned Mr B had no real detail of what the money was 
actually being spent on, he asked if he had any evidence of how previous transfers he had 
made to the same recipient had been spent. The bank has explained it was particularly 
concerned as Mr B had previously been the victim of an attempted account takeover. I 
therefore think it was reasonable for The Co-op Bank to adopt a relatively cautious 
approach. Particularly given Mr B was unable to provide any substantive evidence, such as 
an invoice for the stock, to reassure the bank. 
The managers testimony sets out that he told Mr B if he returned with evidence to show how 
the funds would be used by the third-party it could look to make the transfer. Mr B says he 
did not make an agreement to do this.
Whilst I understand that the banks decision was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr B I find 
no fault with its motivation or course of action. It has sent in its branch fraud process and it 
seems the steps it took comply with this. The terms and conditions (clause 10.2) of Mr Bs 
account also provide that the bank can take such decisions. I would also clarify that its 
decision did not accuse Mr B of any impropriety as I think he perceives, rather that it wanted 
to be sure he was not the victim of any financial crime. I dont see the bank ever suggested 
Mr B was not entitled to the money which it holds in his name. I find, for his and its own 
protection, it was fair and reasonable that it asked for more robust information about the 
purpose of the payment before going ahead.
With regards the service offered during the meeting, without being there - and as the 
available evidence is contradictory - I cant fairly form a view on the tone and attitude of the 
manager. From both parties testimonies I dont think it was an easy discussion for either 
person, but I dont agree that the bank has failed in its duty of care towards Mr B. I am 
persuaded its intention was to protect Mr B from any possible financial loss  and this is 
something the regulator expects banks to do, and to be able to show they are doing. I cant 
comment on the banks duty of care towards the third-party as Mr B requests - she is not 
party to this complaint and has not made a submission to this service.
It follows I am not asking The Co-operative Bank to take any action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman