DRN-2129734
The complaint
Miss B complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Miss B had previously had a fee free current account with Halifax that had an approved 
overdraft, so she knew that approved overdrafts were available without paying a fee for an 
account.
I think its more likely than not that the URCA was sold on a non-advised basis. I say this 
because Ive no evidence that Halifax did a demands and needs assessment as I would 
expect to see if advice was given. And this services knowledge of Halifaxs sales practices 
is that they were generally non-advised at the time. So, Halifax was only required to provide 
Miss B with enough information to make an informed decision about the URCA. 
The URCA was sold over the phone, and Halifax has provided evidence that Miss B was 
subsequently sent a welcome pack with the information about the URCA. I think its more 
likely than not that Halifax explained the URCA in detail as it was trying to sell it to her. 
I can see why the URCA would have been of interest to Miss B as she went on to use some 
of the benefits of the URCA and saved money from the £300 interest free overdraft. I cant 
see anything that Halifax didnt tell her in the sale that would have put her off it. She could 
have closed the URCA at any time but didnt for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax provided Miss B with enough information to 
about the URCA and she chose to take out the account. 
Miss B says that she tried twice by phone to close the URCA, but she says Halifax declined 
to do so because she had an overdraft. 
But Halifax has provided its records of its interactions with Miss B, and there is no entry that 
relates to such phone calls. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss Bs memory is 
mistaken on this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman