DRN-2847854
The complaint
Mr D complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited havent paid his claim for his stolen 
car under his motor trade insurance policy. 
What happened
One of the cars Mr D owned was stolen so he contacted Haven to make a claim. Haven 
reviewed the claim but said as his car wasnt recorded on the Motor Insurance Database 
(MID) then it wasnt covered by the policy. Because of this Haven turned down Mr Ds claim. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Havens response and complained. 
Haven reviewed the complaint but didnt change its position. It said Mr D needed to add 
vehicles to MID for them to be covered, and as the car wasnt on the policy at the time of 
theft it wasnt covered by the policy. Mr D didnt think this was fair as hed told his broker 
when he bought the policy that he owned this car so thought it should be on the policy. As 
Mr D didnt agree with Haven, he referred his complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that Mr Ds policy had an endorsement which set out when vehicles needed to be 
added to MID. And as this car wasnt on MID at the time of theft it wasnt covered by the 
policy. Mr D didnt agree, he thought Haven should pay his claim as the policy said it 
covered vehicles he owns. 
As Mr D didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has a motor trade policy which allows multiple vehicles to be insured under the same 
policy. The insurance certificate says it covers Any motor vehicle which is the property of 
the policyholder. Because of this Mr D thinks his claim should be covered.
The policy also has several endorsements listed, one of them relates to adding vehicles to 
MID. It gives the timescales for adding vehicles to MID, whether theyre permanently owned 
by Mr D or customers vehicles, with the longest timescale being 14 days. The endorsement 
goes on to say: Haven Insurance will not be liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle 
which has not been added to the MID within the above time scales. 
Mr D said he owned this car when the policy was taken out several months before the theft. 
Im therefore satisfied that for Mr Ds car to be covered it needed to be recorded on MID. 
Haven has provided a list of cars Mr D had on MID at the time of the theft and the car he is 
claiming for isnt recorded on there. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Haven to only 
cover cars which are recorded on MID in line with the policy terms and conditions as it needs 
to know what risk its covering. And as Mr Ds car wasnt recorded on MID at the time of the 
theft its not covered by this policy. It follows that Im satisfied Haven have acted fairly and 
reasonably by turning down Mr Ds claim. 
I understand Mr D has said he told his broker he owned this car when he bought the policy 
so said it should be on there. However, I cant consider the actions of Mr Ds broker when he 
purchased the policy in this decision as its a different business. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman