DRN-3176093
The complaint
Mr F says Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
A loan servicing firm, which is affiliated with HFL, serviced the loan and responded to this 
complaint on behalf of HFL. For clarity, Ill refer to its actions and submissions as those of 
HFL in this decision.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr F borrowed £1,299 from HFL to pay for clear aligners from a 
company Ill call D.
D provided the aligners. However, it went into administration before Mr F completed his 
treatment  and it didnt provide him with any retainers or a teeth whitening kit.
Mr F says he contacted D many times as his aligner treatment was coming to an end to 
request the retainers and teeth whitening kit  and only learned D had gone into 
administration when he searched online after a few weeks/months of no reply.
On 14 August 2020, Mr F contacted HFL to ask it to cancel his loan. In reply, HFL wrote to 
Mr F to say it would reduce his loan balance by £298  which it says is the value of the 
retainers (£149) and the teeth whitening kit (£149) that werent supplied.
Mr F doesnt think this is fair. He says that without the retainers, his teeth have moved and 
are now much the same as they were at the start. Mr F wants a full refund.
When HFL refused, he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators thought HFLs offer was fair. 
Mr F disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here, its agreed that Ds failure to provide the retainers and teeth whitening kit was a breach 
of contract, for which Mr F has a like claim against HFL. However, the parties disagree on 
the appropriate remedy.
As Im considering HFLs liability for a like claim, its important I consider what remedies or 
relief a court may order against the supplier in similar circumstances.
HFL has reduced Mr Fs loan balance by £298. Ive checked Ds website from late 2019 and 
a set of retainers ostensibly cost €149. This is comparable to market rates for retainers of 
this sort (clear plastic) ordered online. In the circumstances, I think £149 fairly reflects the 
price of the retainers Mr F didnt receive  and how much he would have had to pay to obtain 
them from a different supplier. Its not clear what teeth whitening kit Mr F was meant to 
receive. The website doesnt say how much it costs and the price of teeth whitening products 
and services varies significantly on the market  some cost a lot less than £149 and others 
cost a lot more. In the circumstances, given the cost of the aligners and retainers according 
to Ds website and the amount Mr F borrowed, I think £149 is a fair estimate of the value of 
the teeth whitening kit.
In response to our investigators assessment, Mr F said that if D had notified him of its 
impending administration, he would have attempted to purchase the retainers elsewhere. 
However, he says he didnt know what type of retainers he needed in terms of material, size, 
specification, etc. He says that as he wasnt provided with the information he needed to 
rectify the situation himself, he should receive a full refund. 
Mr F also says that by the time HFL said theyd refund the cost of the retainers and 
suggested he purchase them elsewhere, his teeth had already moved back to near the start 
position. Mr F has also highlighted a section of Ds website, which makes it clear that the 
retainers should be worn 24 hours a day for the first two weeks  and says that at this point, 
he was still trying to contact D. Finally, he says he hasnt asked a dentist to confirm that his 
teeth have now returned to their original position as a result of not wearing a retainer. He 
says a dentist could only know if  and to what extent  his teeth have moved if he had 
visited them immediately after his aligner treatment had finished.
I can certainly understand Mr Fs frustration. Hes right to say a dentist could only know the 
extent to which his teeth have moved if they know what his teeth looked like immediately 
after his aligner treatment. Regrettably, I find myself in the same position  and without a 
dentists clinical knowledge or experience. I simply cant say if, and to what extent, any 
current misalignment is due to Ds failure to provide retainers. It follows that I cant say HFL 
should provide further compensation. 
And while I accept that Mr F may not have known that D had gone into administration for a 
few weeks, I still think there were steps he could have taken to minimise any loss or harm. 
When theres a breach of contract, the law expects the innocent party to take all reasonable 
steps to do so. And an innocent party cant recover damages for any loss or harm that could 
have been avoided. Reasonable steps here would have been for Mr F to obtain the retainers 
from another supplier  either online or in person  when he learned D wouldnt be able to 
provide them. I accept Mr F couldnt have done this immediately but he could have done it 
quickly. He says he didnt have the information he needed to do so  but I dont think he 
needed the sort of information hes mentioned to make enquiries with another supplier.
I know Mr F will be disappointed. But Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that Ds 
failure to provide the retainers caused any current misalignment, or that Mr F took 
reasonable steps to minimise or avoid any movement. I therefore think HFL has fairly 
remedied Ds breach of contract, for which it was legally answerable under section 75 of the 
CCA, by reducing Mr Fs loan balance by the cost of the items that werent supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman