DRN-2432035
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued to hold him responsible for a credit card 
debt that he hadnt taken out.
What happened
Mr D says that he contacted HSBC in December 2019 when he received a statement for a 
credit card account he hadnt applied for. He was told in January 2020 that HSBC accepted 
that there had been identity theft and would cancel the borrowing and balance. But he 
continued to receive statements and demands for payment. He complained and was offered 
£100 in compensation. He has since found that the response from HSBC was sent to the 
email account the fraudster had given. And he continued to receive statements with 
significant movements in the balance owing shown which he couldnt understand.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr D be paid a total of 
£400 in compensation. HSBC agreed to pay this. She said that it was clear that a fraudulent 
credit card had been taken out with significant borrowing of over £10,000 in Mr Ds name.   
Mr D and Mrs D who is helping to represent him said that they also went to a branch to 
change the details back to the correct ones. And that some ten other fraudulent applications 
had been taken out in Mr Ds name following what they consider to be HSBCs failure to act 
on this breach. Mr D continued to receive statements and demands for payments. This was 
even after they had complained. And Mr D had been contacted by the collections team 
which they didnt think should have happened.
HSBCs explanation was that after the fraud another card account had been set up to 
transfer the balance to. And that this was then adjusted down to zero. It accepts that there 
was some cross over in communication. And that Mr D shouldnt receive more statements 
now that the balance was zero. But Mr D had shown that he had received statements in both 
October and November 2020. Our investigator accepted that this ongoing issue had caused 
him distress and inconvenience. She said that Mr D remained free to refer his complaint 
about what he says is a breach of his data to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr D didnt agree, and he and Mrs D said that they wanted more compensation. While they 
thought that the investigator had looked at the relevant points, the amount recommended 
didnt reflect the time spent, the impact on the personal details for Mr D and his credit history 
and the impact on their personal lives. While HSBC had agreed to pay the compensation, it 
didnt agree with everything that had been said which they found to be an insult. And it had 
sent the final response letter to the perpetrator giving the further potential for fraud. They 
werent confident that matters were resolved as the assurances from January 2020 werent 
acted on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont have a role in saying what processes HSBC should put in place. However, I can 
look at the impact here on Mr D of what are clearly a number of errors. To me the 
explanation from HSBC about a second account being set up makes little sense  but even if 
that were necessary for accounting purposes it shouldnt in my view have resulted in Mr D 
receiving further demands for payments. And I can see why he has no confidence in what 
HSBC says it has done when he still continued to receive statements  which Ive seen 
going up to November 2020.
I dont have any evidence to show that the initial card application was due to any breach of 
Mr Ds information by HSBC. Fraudsters are increasingly sophisticated and clearly here had 
obtained sufficient information to impersonate him, apply for credit and change his details. 
And I need to acknowledge that those fraudsters are responsible for a large measure of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. And while he mentions other similar applications I 
can only look here at what HSBC did. While it is regrettable that the final response was sent 
to the wrong email address, having looked at the contents and what had already happened I 
dont have a basis to find that this resulted in actual loss. But I fully understand why Mr D 
was particularly distressed about this.
I cant require HSBC to agree with our reasoning on a complaint  in the same way that Mr 
and Mrs D have their own view about the appropriate level of compensation. And frankly 
there is limited merit in trying to explain any further just why things went so wrong. Instead I 
accept Mr Ds evidence of the errors including as demonstrated through the statements and 
letters.
Putting things right
I need to think about the appropriate level of compensation to reflect what happened. And 
our role isnt to punish businesses. We also dont tend to make awards based on units of 
time but on the overall impact  and here for Mr D who is the complainant. This issue ought 
to have been resolved sooner as HSBC said it had been. And while Mr D might have 
originally perhaps thought that it not doing so was a mistake I can see why he would have 
become increasingly concerned and distressed to be told he owed a significant amount of 
money. And because he didnt know how to deal with this causing more worry and upset. I 
am now assured this is resolved and corrected but I will be making those necessary actions 
part of my decision. Having considered all the elements of what happened I think that the 
amount recommended of £400 in total by our investigator is fair. I appreciate that both Mr 
and Mrs D will be disappointed by this. My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1) Pay Mr D a further £300 making a total amount of compensation of £400.
2) Remove any reference to these accounts and any related adverse information about 
Mr D that has been reported to external credit reference agencies.
3) Ensure that the accounts linked to this fraudulent application and in Mr Ds name are 
closed and that Mr D does not receive any further statements or contact about them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman