DRN-2882378
The complaint
Mr S complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, has incorrectly 
refunded an overpayment as a debit to his credit card balance. Mr S doesnt believe the 
amount has been refunded correctly. 
Mr S is being assisted in his complaint by his wife, Mrs S. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the full detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision, but the key facts are:
Mr Ss existing balance on his November 2020 statement was £762.94. Mr S usually 
clears his balance in full. 
Between the 12 October 2020 and 4 November 2020, Mr S spent further on his card. 
On 4 November 2020 he paid £762.94 off the balance. He mistakenly sent a second 
payment for the same amount the following day, which was also used to reduce his 
balance. 
After making enquiries with Tesco, it agreed to refund the second transaction, which 
showed as a debit transaction in December 2020. Tesco also agreed to make some 
interest adjustments as Mr S usually clears his balance and it paid £25 
compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied it was correct for the 
amount to be debited back to the account and the interest adjustments were fair. 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as he believes he is out of 
pocket by £762.94. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Between 12 October 2020 and 4 November 2020, Mr S spent a further £997.90 on 
his credit card account. With the balance brought forward from the previous 
statement of £762.40, that meant at the time of the first payment, Mr S owed 
£1,760.84 on his credit card account. When he made his payment on 4 November 
this reduced the balance to £997.90, and then when he made the second  mistaken 
 payment, that reduced the balance further, to £234.96. That means the balance 
shown in the November 2020 statement of £436.42 is correct, as Mr Ss further 
spending on that statement amounted to £201.46.  
That means when Tesco agreed to refund the second transaction, it needed to 
correctly treat it as if the overpayment had never been made. And so it is right that is 
recorded as a debit transaction and the balance owed increased by the same amount 
accordingly  Mr S was no longer paying a second amount £762.94 off of the 
balance. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr S to receive a refund of the 
overpayment, and Tesco not make an equivalent adjustment to the account balance. 
It follows that Im not persuaded Mr S is out of pocket by £762.94.  
Whilst Tesco has made interest adjustments, Im not necessarily persuaded it 
actually did anything wrong that warranted those adjustments to be made  it was Mr 
S mistake in making the overpayment and Mr S asked for the amount to be 
refunded. Nevertheless, that Tesco recognised Mr S does usually clear his balance, 
and so not incur interest, means it has treated Mr S fairly particularly as it has also 
paid compensation. That it agreed to do this doesnt mean it has made a mistake in 
relation to the refund, or that the balance is incorrect.  
As I find that Mr Ss balance is correct, and Tesco was right to debit the refund from the 
account, I find no basis on which to ask Tesco to make a further balance adjustment or 
reduce the balance owed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman