DRN-2571743
The complaint
Mr M complains about the fees that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited charged 
when his insurer cancelled his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ms insurer cancelled his policy and the insurer and the appointed representative (AR) 
acting for Somerset Bridge then applied their own charges. The AR applied a £75 
cancellation charge and retained an arrangement fee of £162.81. Mr M thought this was 
excessive. 
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider 
the charges to be unreasonable. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Somerset Bridge on 20 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
Somerset Bridge said it wasnt responsible for the arrangement and administration of Mr Ms 
policy. It said that the AR is responsible, and it acts for Mr M. But, while I agree the AR did 
act for Mr M, I also think in doing so it was acting for Somerset Bridge. This is because the 
AR isnt registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for arranging or assisting with 
the performance and administration of contracts of insurance and its website says:
[the AR] is an Appointed Representative of Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited 
who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. No 477112. Somerset 
Bridge Insurance Services Ltd is registered in England and Wales No. 06334001. Registered 
office Lysander House, Catbrain Lane, Cribbs Causeway, Bristol, BS10 7TQ.
I also noted that all of the ARs correspondence to Mr M was sent from Somerset Bridge. So 
I thought Somerset Bridge was responsible for the actions of the AR in relation to the sale 
and assisting with the administration and performance of Mr Ms policy. And so I thought it 
was responsible for the fees the AR charged Mr M. 
The AR charged Mr M an arrangement fee, which it retained when the policy was cancelled. 
And it also charged a cancellation fee when the insurer decided the policy should be 
cancelled. Mr M didnt complain to Somerset Bridge about these charges at the time. But he 
did raise it with our service in his complaint and we gave Somerset Bridge opportunity to 
comment on this. So I thought this was something I could reasonably consider.
I saw that ARs Terms of Business set out that a £75 fee would be charged on cancellation 
outside the 14 day cooling off period. And the annual arrangement fee is set out on page 5 
of 9 of the Terms of Business:
Annual policy arrangement fee
The fee payable will be dependent on the insurer who the business is being placed with. The 
fee is calculated as a percentage of insurer calculated premium and the result of individual 
risk calculations based on information provided by you in your quotation for a policy. The 
monetary amount of any such fee will be disclosed to you prior to you purchasing/renewing 
the policy. There is a £20.00 administration fee for any policies purchased over the phone, 
this will be included to your annual policy arrangement fee.
Arrangement fees arent usually refunded if the policy is cancelled. But we think its unfair for 
a broker to retain all of this if the policy is cancelled early, unless it made it clear to the 
consumer it was charging this amount in addition to the premium and any other charges at 
point of sale or soon after during the cooling off period. This is because the broker hasnt 
provided the consumer with clear, fair and not misleading information. 
I saw that the AR set out its arrangement fee alongside the policy premium in its 
confirmation of cover letter to Mr M. It also sent him its Terms of Business, alongside other 
documents, explaining how the fee would be calculated. So I thought Somerset Bridge set 
out the fee clearly at the start of the policy and so it made Mr M reasonably aware of it. 
Our approach is that the broker can retain the whole arrangement fee so long as the 
cancellation is outside the cooling off period and the actual amount was made clear up front. 
Mr Ms policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and the arrangement fee was 
clearly set out in the policy welcome pack. So I think the AR was entitled to retain this 
£162.81 fee.  
The AR also charged Mr M £75 for cancelling his policy. Again I considered whether this was 
a reasonable administration cost. And I thought this was high compared to other policies Ive 
seen. Somerset Bridge hadnt justified the reasonableness of this charge. So I thought a 
charge of £50 would be reasonable and more in keeping with other policies Ive seen. 
Somerset Bridge deducted £237.81 from the refund to Mr M after his policy was cancelled. I 
thought it should have deducted just £212.81. And so I thought Somerset Bridge should 
refund Mr M the difference of £25. Mr M has been without his money for some time, so I 
thought it should reasonably add interest to this refund.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Somerset Bridge, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Somerset Bridge to refund 
Mr M £25 with interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt raise any objections to my provisional decision. But Somerset Bridge said the 
same rationale that Id applied to the arrangement fee should be applied to the cancellation 
charge. It said that both had been clearly stated and correctly applied. It said it wasnt for our 
service to decide if it was too high. 
But I disagree. Ive explained our approach to arrangement fees above. We think that a 
broker can charge a reasonable cancellation fee for its administration costs where the policy 
is cancelled outside the cooling off period. And we expect a broker to provide evidence of 
the reasonableness of the fee when we think it is unfair. Ive asked Somerset Bridge to provide evidence of the reasonableness of its £75 
cancellation fee. But it hasnt done so. So Ive decided that a fee of £50 is in keeping with 
other cancellation fees Ive seen. And Ive not seen any new evidence to change my 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. Refund Mr M £25 of the charge it deducted on cancelling his policy. It should add interest 
to this refund calculated at 8% simple per annum from the date of cancellation to the 
date of payment. 
2. HM Revenue & Customs requires Somerset Bridge to take off tax from this interest. 
Somerset Bridge must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman