DRN-4407504
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about delays and poor service in esure Insurance Limiteds 
handling of a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr B and Mrs B have home insurance underwritten by esure which covers their home and its 
contents.
They made a claim in April 2022 when they discovered damage to their home which they 
believe to have been caused by subsidence.
The claim was accepted by esure and they carried out repairs, which were completed in 
June 2022.
Mr B and Mrs B werent satisfied with the way the repairs had been completed. They advised 
esure that there were problems with their front door, floorboards and pipe work and they said 
esures contractors had also damaged carpets during the repairs.
Mr B and Mrs B were also concerned that there appeared to be on-going movement at their 
property.
When they got no response, Mr B and Mrs B made a complaint to esure. They told Mr B and 
Mrs B that they couldnt yet resolve their complaint (after the permitted eight weeks had 
passed) and referred Mr B and Mrs B to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. Despite repeated requests to esure 
theyve failed to respond and provide us with any information or evidence relating to the 
case.
On that basis, our investigator took a view on the case based on what Mr B and Mrs B had 
told us. She thought esure should cash settle the claim if Mr B and Mrs B provided them with 
three quotes from their own contractors for the necessary repair work. 
She also said esure should pay Mr B and Mrs B £400 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyd been caused by esures errors and omissions.
Because esure didnt respond to our investigators view, the case has been passed to me for 
a final decision. This decision  should Mr B and Mrs B accept it  will be binding on both 
parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked esure for their view on this complaint  and for evidence and/or information 
relating to the claim  in August 2023. Having had no response, we chased esure in early 
September 2023. 
In the absence of any reply from esure, our investigator issued her view on the case in mid-
September 2023 - and asked esure to respond to it. They failed to do so.
On 3 October 2023, our investigator advised esure that the case had been referred for a final 
decision and they had a further opportunity to provide information or evidence and/or to 
comment on her view on the complaint. Again, weve had nothing from esure.
All of that being the case, we have no choice at all but to bring this complaint to a resolution 
 through this final decision  on the basis of what Mr B and Mrs B tell us and the 
information and evidence theyve provided. 
I should stress that I have absolutely no reason at all to doubt that what Mr B and Mrs B tell 
us is true. Their version of events is also backed up by the copy correspondence with esure 
and their contractors that theyve been able to provide.
It goes without saying that esures failure to engage with us at all  after failing to give a 
satisfactory response to Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint  is surprising and disappointing.
I have to assume  from the information and evidence we have  that esure and/or their 
contractors failed to respond in any meaningful or helpful way to Mr B and Mrs B when they 
reported the on-going issues with their home - and with the initial repairs - in mid-2022.
That remained the case until 6 October 2023, when, as I understand it, esures agents 
contacted Mr B and Mrs B to tell them theyd be: (a) re-treating some of the previously 
repaired areas in the house; and (b) appointing contractors to investigate the on-going 
movement issues at the right-hand corner of the house and to prepare a scheme of works to 
address those issues.
That communication with Mr B and Mrs B came after this case had been referred to me for a 
final decision. It was copied on to us by Mr B and Mrs B. It also came around 15 months or 
so after Mr B and Mrs B had raised their concerns about the original repairs with esure.
That means Mr B and Mrs B appear to have been ignored  and their concerns not 
addressed  by esure and/or their agents for 15 months. Despite those concerns being 
extremely serious and very worrying for Mr B and Mrs B.
It also means that the part of our investigators proposed outcome which related to cash 
settlement of the claim may no longer be applicable  at least not immediately. 
esures contractors are now investigating the cause of the movement in the house and will 
propose a scheme of works to address it. That means they will also be covering off the 
necessary adjustments and/or re-work to the previous repairs inside the house which Mr B 
and Mrs B say were unsatisfactory.
In essence, the property will need to be put right cosmetically inside once any more 
fundamental repairs to address the movement are carried out.However, the principle set out by our investigator in her view remains valid and applicable. 
Mr B and Mrs B may be happy to allow esures contractors to proceed with their 
investigations and repairs for now. 
But if it turns out they dont address the on-going problems Mr B and Mrs B raised with esure 
and then with us  the front door, the floorboards the pipe work, the carpets  then, in that 
case, we would remain of the view that esure should cash settle for those repairs after 
receiving quotations for the work from Mr B and Mrs B.
Our investigator was clear in her view on this complaint about our role. We are here to look 
at complaints about alleged errors or omissions on the part of a financial business which 
have adversely affected their customer. Our role is, in essence, retrospective  we ask 
ourselves what went wrong and how do we think that needs to be put right?
We arent empowered  or indeed qualified  to supervise or monitor on-going claims. And 
weve explained to Mr B and Mrs B that if theyre not happy about anything esure do in future 
 for example, in the way they propose to address the movement in the house or carry out 
the repairs  they will need to make a new complaint to esure. And then bring that to us if 
theyre not happy with esures response.
I sincerely hope esure now move to resolve the issues at Mr B and Mrs Bs property in a 
timely and effective manner, so that Mr B and Mrs B dont feel the need to make a further 
complaint.
Putting things right
It appears  from the recent correspondence between esures agents and Mr B and Mrs B  
that esure hadnt lost sight of Mr B and Mrs Bs on-going claim issues. And its true to say 
that it is extremely difficult at times to correctly diagnose and address the reasons for 
movement in a property.
However, thats no excuse for esures failure to communicate with Mr B and Mrs B and/or to 
address their considerable  and justified  concerns about their home, for a period of 
around 15 months.
During that time, Mr B and Mrs B have been left in the dark as to how things are to be 
progressed. And theyve therefore experienced considerable stress and worry about the 
problems with their home. Theyve also had the inconvenience of having to chase esure 
and/or their agents to try to get a response from them.
Bearing all of that in mind, I agree with our investigators view that £400 is fair and 
appropriate compensation for esure to pay Mr B and Mrs B for the trouble and upset theyve 
experienced as a result of esures errors and/or omissions in the way theyve handled this 
matter.
To be clear, as our investigator pointed out, that compensation is to cover the period up to 
the date our investigator issued her view on the case  18 September 2023. If there are any 
further delays and/or poor service after that point, then  as Ive explained above  Mr B and 
Mrs B will need to make a new complaint to esure.
As I also say above, Mr B and Mrs B may now wish to give esure another chance to resolve 
the issues with their property. However, if esure fail to put right the repairs to the front door, 
floorboards, pipe work and/or carpets, then wed expect esure to cash settle those elements 
of the claim in line with quotations provided by Mr B and Mrs B. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.
esure Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr B and Mrs B £400 in compensation for their trouble and upset; and
cash settle the claim as it relates to the front door, floorboards, pipe work and/or 
carpets, if they fail to resolve those issues effectively and in a timely manner during 
the forthcoming round of repairs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman