DRN-3413317
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly settled their claim 
for theft of jewellery under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their policy following a break-in to their home. Several items 
were stolen, including items of jewellery. As part of its claim validation process, esure asked 
Mr and Mrs P to provide further details of the jewellery to prove ownership and the value of 
the lost items - such as photos, receipts and pre-loss valuations of the items claimed for.
Mr and Mrs P informed esure that they couldnt provide the substation requested for the 
items of jewellery stolen. esure recognised receipts were unlikely to be available as the 
jewellery was gifted many years ago, but it did expect some of the other forms of 
substantiation to be provided. So, esure decided as Mr and Mrs P been insured for many 
years with them and had not made a claim, it would offer a 50% contribution towards the 
value of the items claimed for. Mr and Mrs P felt this was unfair and wanted the full value of 
the jewellery settled.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought esure had followed the 
claims process set out in the terms and conditions. As no proof of ownership or value had 
been provided by Mr and Mrs P, she thought esure had been fair in its offer of settlement. Mr 
and Mrs P disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see esure accepted that a theft occurred, but the dispute is over the settlement offer for 
the jewellery that Mr and Mrs P had stolen. esure has said it has followed its terms and 
conditions in reviewing the claim. So, I have considered what the terms and conditions of the 
policy set out for how a claim will be handled. Under the section How to make a claim, the 
policy sets out requirements on Mr and Mrs P, which includes We may require evidence of 
ownership and/or proof of purchase, such as receipts/valuations - photographs will also help 
us to proceed with the claim.
There are further relevant points in the policy under General conditions that apply when 
making a claim which states to help us process your claim we may ask for information that 
is reasonably required to support the claim. We will only ask for information relevant to your 
claim such as: documentation, written estimates, receipts, reports on the cause of damage, 
correspondence from other people, photographs, proof of ownership or value, valuations, 
crime reference numbers, details of other insurance policies, pre-purchase surveys, user 
manuals, which are in Your or Your Household possession or easily obtainable.
I think the policy is clear what esure can ask for to validate the claim. esure asked Mr and 
Mrs P to provide some of the information and unfortunately, I can see Mr and Mrs P were 
unable to provide any kind of substantiation for the claim. I think esure has followed a 
reasonable process and has met the terms and conditions of the policy. The validation part 
of the claims process is to ensure esure are not unfairly exposed to dishonest or 
exaggerated claims. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not suggesting I think this is a dishonest 
claim.
Ive checked what the terms and conditions say if this information is not provided, the 
general conditions go on to state if you or your household do not comply with any part of 
these conditions, we have the right not to pay the claim. I see esure decided to settle the 
jewellery claim at 50% of the claim value without any substantiation provided. Esure said it 
did this because of the long-term relationship it had with Mr and Mrs P and due to their claim 
history. As esure werent required to pay any settlement under the terms and conditions, I 
think it has been fair in paying a 50% contribution of the claim value. Therefore, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P, but I dont think its fair for esure to pay 
the full settlement when no substantiation for the loss has been provided. I think esure has 
taken a pragmatic view in the circumstances and it has said if new evidence is provided to 
substantiate the claim, it would be willing to consider this. I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require esure Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman