DRN-3320853
The complaint
Miss L complains about the valuation that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
placed on her car after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants this 
increased so she can replace her car like for like. 
What happened
Miss Ls car was damaged, and she made a claim on her policy. RSA said her car was 
beyond economical repair. It offered her £7,973 in settlement of her claim for the cars total 
loss. It said this was the cars market value. But Miss L thought this should be increased by 
£1,000 so that she could buy a similar replacement. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought RSAs 
valuation was correctly made according to our approach. So he thought it didnt need to 
increase this.
Miss L said she thought RSA hadnt taken into account her cars low mileage and service 
history. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss L wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. And I can 
understand that she feels unfairly treated as she said the accident wasnt her fault. 
Miss Ls policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought that RSAs valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and extras as Miss Ls car at the 
date of its loss. RSAs offer was within the range of the valuations he found. And so I think 
RSA correctly assessed the cars market value. 
Miss L said that she was out of pocket as shed maintained her car with servicing, and it had 
low mileage. But I can see that the cars low mileage was taken into account when making 
the valuations. And we think regular servicing maintains the car and keeps it roadworthy, but 
it doesnt increase its valuation. 
Miss L said shed asked RSA to find her a replacement car for its settlement offer. But this 
isnt what her policy provides. Some policies do offer a replacement like for like car. But this 
is where the car is new. Miss Ls policy provides for its market value in the case of total loss. 
So Im satisfied that RSAs settlement offer for the total loss of Miss Ls car was fair and 
reasonable. This is because I think it was made correctly in keeping with our approach. And 
so I dont require it to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman