DRN-3613773
The complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed someone to fraudulently remove money 
from her account.
What happened
In 2012 Miss W met a man, Mr C, who said he could help her manage her finances. Over 
the following years Miss W and Mr C started to form a relationship and became close. Mr C 
continued to help Miss W with her finances, being given third-party access to her Lloyds 
account in 2015 and ultimately being granted power of attorney over her finances in 2019. 
And during this time a number of payments were made between Miss Ws account and 
accounts in Mr Cs name.
Miss W started to become suspicious of their relationship when Mr C wouldnt move in with 
her or give her back more responsibility over her finances. She got copies of her account 
statements from Lloyds but the money in her account didnt look like she was expecting. So 
in early 2020, she went into her local Lloyds branch and told them she thought Mr C was 
stealing from her. Lloyds told her she would need to speak to the Office of the Public 
Guardian to get the power of attorney revoked, which she then did and the power of attorney 
was revoked in April 2020. Miss W then complained to Lloyds that it had allowed Mr C to 
remove money from her account.
Lloyds investigated but said the power of attorney was a legal document Miss W had agreed 
to, and so it had acted correctly in allowing Mr C to make payments out of her account as he 
was legally allowed to do so. Miss W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred her 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They felt Lloyds should have taken more action 
when Miss W first told it she concerned Mr C was stealing from her, by placing a block on 
the account and not allowing him to do anything further on it until Miss W had looked into 
any possible fraud. And, by failing to take more action, they felt Lloyds had contributed to the 
distress and inconvenience Miss W had been caused by the situation. So they 
recommended Lloyds pay Miss W £750 compensation for this. Lloyds accepted this 
recommendation, but Miss W wasnt happy with the amount of compensation so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before the power of attorney was registered on Miss Ws account, Lloyds records show she 
introduced Mr C as someone who was helping her with her finances in 2014 and then 
granted him third-party access to her account in 2015. And as Lloyds records also show 
Miss W had been struggling with some financial difficulties before this, I think it was 
reasonable for it to accept that someone was helping her with her finances and to then follow 
the instructions Mr C gave on the account once hed been granted third-party access.
Ive also seen a copy of the power of attorney document Lloyds was shown, appointing Mr C 
as Miss Ws attorney. And this appears to have been filled in correctly with Miss Ws details, 
signed by her, stamped by a solicitor and validated by the Office of the Public Guardian. So I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to register the power of attorney on Miss Ws account in 
accordance with that document, and then to follow the instructions Mr C gave on her account 
on that basis.
Unfortunately, due to the circumstances surrounding this case, its very difficult to now know 
for certain whether Mr C was stealing from Miss W, or using the money in her account for his 
own benefit rather than hers.
A number of payments were made from Miss Ws account to accounts in Mr Cs name, both 
before and after the power of attorney was registered. And shortly after the power of attorney 
was revoked, Mr C went into a Lloyds branch and asked to remove all the money in 
Miss Ws account  which I wouldnt necessarily expect someone acting in her interests to 
do.
But the payments to Mr Cs accounts dont start until 2016, nearly two years after he was 
introduced to Lloyds and more than a year after he was granted third-party access to 
Miss Ws account  and I wouldnt usually expect a fraudster to wait this long before taking 
money. The payments to Mr C were for relatively small amounts, considering the available 
balance of Miss Ws account  and Id usually expect a fraudster to get as much money as 
quickly as possible. There are a number of payments from Mr C into Miss Ws account  
which I wouldnt expect from a fraudster. And the overall position of Miss Ws account 
improves significantly during the time Mr C was involved  which suggests he was helping 
her with her finances.
Unfortunately, Mr C has died since the power of attorney was revoked. So its also not 
possible to get any explanation from him, or statements for his accounts to see whether the 
money was used for Miss Ws benefit or not.
In any event, I dont think there was anything about the activity on Miss Ws account, or the 
instructions Mr C gave, which ought to have alerted Lloyds that Mr C may be abusing his 
position as her attorney. I think its reasonable that Lloyds didnt identify any possible 
concerns before Miss W said she thought Mr C was stealing from her, and so I dont think it 
would be fair to say it acted incorrectly by allowing Mr C to make the payments from her 
account.
I do think though, that Lloyds should have done more to help Miss W when she first raised 
her concerns. The branch manager Miss W spoke to said she came in a number of times 
during early 2020 saying she thought Mr C was stealing from her. Lloyds records show it 
told her she would have to speak to the Office of the Public Guardian to get the power of 
attorney revoked, which is correct. But given the potential seriousness and ongoing nature of 
the situation, I think Lloyds should also have placed a block on the account and not allowed 
Mr C to take any further action on it until Miss W had confirmed what was going on. And its 
records show this wasnt done until at least a number of weeks later.
By not blocking the account and just directing Miss W to the Office of the Public Guardian, 
Lloyds let a potentially serious situation continue and left Miss W to sort it out on her own 
rather than taking the steps it could to help her. This will have left her feeling isolated, 
unsupported and worried that more of her money could have been moved out of her account 
at any time. A block on the account could also have forced Mr C to explain his actions and 
so given Miss W clear answers about what had been going on. But instead the matter has 
continued for several years, Miss W has had to pursue it via a number of different routes over this time and she has been unable to get definite answers about what happened. So I 
think Lloyds failure to do more to help her when she first raised the issue has caused 
Miss W a significant amount of distress and inconvenience.
Having considered all the circumstances of this case, I think £750 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for this distress and inconvenience Lloyds caused Miss W.
I understand Miss W feels the amount of compensation is too low, and I appreciate that this 
matter has been going on for a significant period of time and has caused her a considerable 
amount of distress. But, based on the evidence I have, I cant say for sure that Mr C was 
stealing from her or that the money from her account wasnt used for her benefit. So I dont 
think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund the payments Mr C made or to pay 
compensation for the entire time Mr C was involved with her account. And its important to 
note that, if Miss W did suffer a loss, the main perpetrator was Mr C rather than Lloyds.
I only think its fair to hold Lloyds responsible for the part of the situation it caused by not 
initially doing more to help her. And I think £750 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay Miss W £750 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman