DRN-4215671
The complaint
Mr S complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and the service they provided 
after his motorhome broke down while abroad.
What happened
Mr S held a Motorhome insurance policy, underwritten by a separate insurer. Included within 
this policy, for an additional premium, was an additional European Breakdown Assistance 
(EBA) policy, which was underwritten by IPA.
Unfortunately, on 18 August 2022 while travelling in Spain, Mr S motorhome broke down. 
So, he contacted IPA for assistance, under the EBA policy he held. 
IPA arranged for Mr S motorhome to be taken to an available garage in the area local to 
where he was located. But Mr S was unhappy with the service IPA provided from this point, 
so he raised several complaints.
These included, and are not limited to, Mr S unhappiness with the length of time the claim 
took to progress, and in particular the delays caused by the garage IPA appointed. Due to 
these delays, Mr S utilised all of his alternative accommodation allowance and so, he 
explained he ran out of money which saw him sleeping rough on local beaches. Mr S was 
also unhappy that, while the motorhome was in the care of the garage appointed by IPA, it 
was broken into and many of his possessions stolen. And Mr S explained that, due to the 
delays in his motor home being repatriated, he lost out on a job back in the UK. So, he 
wanted IPA to compensate for the emotional and financial impact hed suffered due to all of 
the above.
IPA responded to Mr S complaints and upheld them in part. They accepted there had been 
delays in arranging an inspection of his motorhome, and they paid Mr S £300 to recognise 
the impact this caused. And they accepted the service provided to Mr S, including the way in 
which he was updated and the length of time it took to repatriate the car, fell below the 
standard theyd expect. So, they offered to pay Mr S a further £900 to recognise any upset 
he'd been caused. But they didnt think they were responsible for the financial loss created 
by the theft of his personal possessions. And they explained their remit was for breakdown 
assistance only, so other aspects of his claim would need to be raised with the insurer of his 
motor home insurance policy. Mr S rejected this offer and remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think IPA needed to increase the offer 
theyd already made. They explained Mr S EBA policy didnt include cover for personal 
possessions and so, they didnt think IPA should cover the losses he incurred from the theft. 
And they explained at the time of the incident, Mr S overall policy didnt include cover for 
travel to and from work. So, they didnt think they could say the delays in repatriating Mr S 
motorhome directly impacted his ability to take on the job he referred to. But they did accept 
there had been failures during the claim process, and that this had impacted Mr S 
significantly. Having considered the overall offer of compensation IPA had put forward, they 
thought this was a fair one to recognise the service failures they were responsible for. So, 
our investigator didnt think IPA needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Mr S didnt agree, and he provided several comments detailing why. These included, and 
are not limited to, his belief the £900 offer didnt fairly compensate him for the delays he 
experienced and the level of service he received during the claim process. Mr S didnt think 
this amount fairly considered him being forced to hitch hike and sleep on beaches illegally. 
And he felt that, had IPAs chosen garage acted professionally, his personal possessions 
wouldnt have been stolen as he wouldnt have been allowed to try and drive it in early 
September, only for him to need to return it back to them and leave it unsecure. So, Mr S 
maintained his belief that the compensation offer should be increased.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained unchanged. Mr S 
requested additional time to supply further comments and evidence but to date, none have 
been received. As Mr S didnt agree, and the deadline to supply further information has 
expired, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer IPA have already made is a fair one, for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think 
is the right outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful to set out exactly 
what IPA were responsible for under the EBA policy and so, what Ive been able to consider.
I recognise Mr S is unhappy that several of his personal possessions were stolen from his 
motorhome. But IPA are the underwriters of the EBA policy only, not the motorhome 
insurance Mr S took out. So, any claim for personal possessions would need to be directed 
to the underwriter of the motorhome insurance policy, and this isnt something Id expect IPA 
to consider or pay out for.
I also recognise Mr S feels IPAs actions meant he was unable to use his motorhome to 
drive to a job he had intended to take in the UK, leaving him at a financial loss in a lower 
paid role. But I note that within the motorhome policy Mr S held that the EBA policy was 
contained within, this didnt insure Mr S to use the motorhome for journeys to and from work. 
So, while I note Mr S testimony that he intended to change the motorhome policy he had in 
place, Im unable to say for certain this is what he wouldve done. And even so, any decision 
I make is based on the policy and level of cover Mr S had in place at the time the incident 
being complaint about occurred. So, I havent thought about this aspect of the complaint any 
further.
Instead, what I have done is considered the service IPA provided to Mr S under the 
limitations of the EBA policy they provided. And Ive considered this level of service against 
the offer of compensation IPA have put to Mr S so far.
I note in this situation, IPA dont dispute that the service Mr S received fell below the 
standard theyd expect. They have accepted they encountered difficulties communicating 
with the garage they found that could take Mr S motorhome to repair. And, because of this 
and the actions the garage took, it impacted the length of time Mr S was without access to 
the motorhome and how it impacted his onward journey. As IPA have already accepted that 
they failed to act fairly and reasonably here, I dont intend to discuss the merits of this in any further detail. Instead, Ive thought about Mr S main area of dispute, which centres around 
what IPA should reasonably do to put things right.
Putting things right
IPA have already paid Mr S £300 to recognise the initial delays he experienced waiting for 
his van to be taken to the garage and inspected. And theyve since offered a further £900 
compensation, to recognise the inconvenience he was caused between August and October 
2022, when he received his motorhome back in the UK. So, Ive thought about whether this 
total offer of £1,200 is a fair one.
I note Mr S is unhappy that he was left without somewhere to stay, which saw him needing 
to camp out in a tent for periods of time. Ive read through the system notes provided by IPA 
at length, and I do think they did what they could to find Mr S suitable accommodation at 
short notice, up to the limit included within the policy. And from what Ive seen, they 
reimbursed Mr S any accommodation costs he incurred up to this limit.
I note IPA also helped assist Mr S in returning home, and the costs associated with this. And 
they helped arranged for the repatriation of his car, again alongside the costs. So, while I do 
think the process did take longer than I wouldve expected, I do think IPA have shown they 
attempted to take reasonable steps to progress the claim and assist Mr S, in situations that 
they were able to control.
From what Ive seen, its clear the delays resulted from IPAs difficulties contacting and 
discussing the claim with the garage. And, while I do appreciate the difficulties that 
international contact may bring, as IPA appointed the garage, I think the garage were acting 
as an agent of IPA. So, I do think IPA are responsible for the actions of the garage overall.
But this doesnt mean I think all of the delays were caused due to something IPA did wrong. 
The policy itself explains that IPA wouldnt cover any costs which result from the 
unavailability of spare parts and I note there was a delay because parts were needed to be 
fitted to the motorhome. And I note at the time of year Mr S broke down the availability of 
garages was impacted by national holidays and opening times.
So, due to the term which states IPA wont cover any loss of any kind that comes from 
providing or delaying providing the services that cover relates to unless caused by our 
negligence or deliberate misconduct I dont think IPA are fully responsible for all of the 
issues Mr S experienced, or the costs he incurred.
In this situation, from what Ive seen, I think IPA have considered the tangible costs they 
were responsible for, that Mr S has been able to evidence. So, I think any compensatory 
award should be focused on the emotional impact, and inconvenience, Mr S was caused.
I note Mr S was left in a foreign country without access to a driveable motorhome from 18 
August to early September, when he flew home. And from then till late October he was 
without access to his motorhome at all as he was in a different country. And I do think this 
wouldve been upsetting and inconvenient for Mr S, especially in a foreign country needing 
to incur expenses he wouldnt have budgeted for. And Ive also thought about Mr S 
testimony that, where he couldnt budget, he was left needing to camp on local beaches.
I also recognise the upset Mr S wouldve felt when deciding he would need to return home, 
rather than carry on his onward journey, due to the uncertainty of how long it would take to 
repair the motor home and the fact hed utilised his alternative accommodation. And I do 
think this emotional impact should be recognised.But I note that in total, IPA have offered to pay Mr S £1,200 which is a significant amount. 
And this is on top of the financial losses they have already reimbursed, in line with his policy 
terms. And having considered this offer, I think its a fair one that falls in line with what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been made.
I think it is significant enough to address the clear emotional upset and inconvenience Mr S 
wouldve experienced from errors IPA were responsible for. But I think it also fairly takes into 
consideration IPAs efforts to help assist Mr S through the claim process, which I think they 
did do especially regarding finding alternative accommodation at short notice in different 
areas. And I think it recognises the fact some of Mr S upset and losses, centred around the 
theft of his personal possessions, would need to be directed in a claim to his motorhome 
insurer. I think it also fairly reflects the fact that IPA did not cause the motorhome to break 
down initially, or that locating a garage at that time of year in that country was more difficult 
than it usually wouldve been.
So, I am directing IPA to pay Mr S a further £900, on top of the £300 that has already been 
paid, to fairly compensate Mr S for the difficulties hes faced, and the upset hes 
experienced, that I think IPA are responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr S a further £900, taking the total compensatory payment he receives to 
£1200 overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman