DRN-4302840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) unfairly turned down their 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to 
a loan provided to them to purchase a timeshare product.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were existing holders of a timeshare product provided and sold by a company 
(who Ill refer to as A) when they were holidaying at a popular destination outside of the UK 
in or around November 2016.
During that holiday, they were invited to a meeting with A that turned out to involve a sales 
presentation about timeshare products. During that meeting, Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
purchase a further timeshare product from A. The total cost of the purchase was £92,500 
funded under a fixed sum loan agreement for £64,750 provided by VFL. The balance of 
£27,750 was paid by way of a transfer from Mr and Mrs Ws bank account.
In or around November 2019, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs W 
submitted claims to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
In the PRs letter of claim, they said A had misrepresented the features and benefits of the 
timeshare in November 2016. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), VFL were jointly and 
severally liable for those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR said A represented the 
timeshare product as a financial investment which Mr and Mrs W could later sell for a profit. 
And in the interim, they could rent out their timeshare to derive a return to cover any finance 
costs.
The PR also said that various aspects of the sale had led to the debtor-creditor relationship 
being unfair under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular:
the terms of the timeshare agreement were so egregious as to be unfair themselves 
since the payment of commission by VFL to A was hidden from Mr and Mrs W;
Mr and Mrs W werent told the meeting was, in fact, a sales presentation lasting 
several hours, and were pressured and subjected to persistent sales tactics, contrary 
to the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs);
Mr and Mrs W werent given time to consider the agreements before entering into 
them;
Mr and Mrs W were told the product was only available for a limited time, contrary to 
the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT); and
no affordability checks or credit assessment were completed in relation to the loan.
As no response was received to Mr and Mrs Ws claims, the PR referred their complaint to 
this service.
While considering the circumstances surrounding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, VFL told our 
investigator theyd not received the letter of claim, or any other claim or complaint from Mr 
and Mrs W in relation to their timeshare purchase. It was established that the claim letter had 
been addressed and sent to a different company whose name was very similar to VFL. 
Because of this, VFL asked for time to consider and investigate the claims made.
In the absence of a subsequent outcome from VFL, the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs 
W had a valid claim under S75 as the purchase price of the timeshare product exceeded the 
limits permitted under that section of the CCA. However. the investigator thought Mr and Mrs 
Ws recollections and allegations plausible based upon what theyd said and the information 
available. And because of that, they thought a court was likely to find that this had led to the 
existence of an unfair relationship under S140A.
To put things right, our investigator thought VFL should cancel the loan, refund all payments 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to settlement. They also thought VFL 
should pay Mr and Mrs W an additional £27,750 representing their cash contribution, 
together with refunding any maintenance fees paid for the years they hadnt used the 
timeshare product, adding 8% simple interest to this figures.
VFL didnt agree with our investigators findings. They didnt think there was any concrete 
evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ws allegations and thought their subsequent actions in 
completing further timeshare purchases and upgrades with A, together with their ongoing 
usage of the products didnt support the allegations. VFL also pointed to various terms within 
the purchase documentation that specifically stated the purchase wasnt to be considered a 
financial investment.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was passed to me 
to consider further and issue a final decision. In doing so, I reached a different outcome to 
that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 18 July 2023 
giving both Mr and Mrs W and Vacation Finance Limited the opportunity to respond to my 
findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where Mr and Mrs W paid for their timeshare membership, having financed it with a 
restricted use regulated loan from VFL, they are afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like them under those provisions  subject to any restrictions and 
limitations. So, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr W, Mrs W and VFL 
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under the credit agreement, its deemed 
to be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination 
under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe 
is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs treatment of Mr and Mrs Ws claim was fair and reasonable given all 
the evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityThe FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products and services and provides rules and guidance about what this service is 
able to consider. This services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by a consumer, we dont provide a 
legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal findings  
that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr and Mrs Ms timeshare product experience
In their statement, Mr and Mrs W say they had attended a meeting with A in or 
around December 2015 when they agreed to purchase a timeshare product from 
them. At that time, they say they already held an existing timeshare product. So, it 
appears the purchase in November 2016 (being the subject of their claim here) was 
at least their second purchase with A, and third experience of a timeshare product.
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs 
W had a reasonably strong awareness about the products theyd purchased, how 
they operated and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs W were familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales 
presentations given by them. Particularly as the presentation in November 2016 
wasnt their first experience.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W agreed to subsequent purchases of timeshare 
products from A on at least two further occasions in 2017 and 2018. Again, these 
were said to involve long sales presentations, as they say they experienced in 2016.
The claim for misrepresentation
Having considered the PRs original claim letter together with documentation from the 
time of the sale, I can see that the claim was submitted to a different business  
rather than VFL. So, I cant say that VFLs failure to respond was unreasonable in 
these circumstances.
S75(3) says that Subsection (1)3 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100 or more than £30,000[]. The cash price shown within the loan 
agreement in November 2016 was £92,500. As a consequence, I dont believe a 
valid claim can be made under S75. But it is possible that any misrepresentation 
could be considered under S140A if it could be found to give cause to the creation of 
an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs W) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
3 In relation a misrepresentation or breach of contract.b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court must have 
regard for anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor. So, I think the 
alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Even though I dont think 
they can be considered under S75 due to the restriction within S75(3).
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the holiday product to Mr 
and Mrs W in 2016. In other words, that they told them something that wasnt true in 
relation to one or more of any points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that any 
misrepresentation was material in inducing them to enter the contract. This means I 
would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs W reasonably relied upon any false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare product.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale in 
2016. Mr and Mrs W have provided limited details and evidence to support the 
misrepresentations they say A made, although I acknowledge that they do say they 
were told these things. So, Ive thought about this and whether theres any evidence 
available from the time of their purchase in 2016. 
In the letter of claim, the PR said that Mr and Mrs W were advised that this 
investment would make a profit and would sell much quicker as these were weeks in 
the High Season which were more in demand.
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive seen limited specific evidence from the 
time of the sale in 2016, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase or 
membership documentation. Ive only seen pages one to four the Membership 
Application Agreement which appears to have been signed by both Mr and Mrs W. I 
havent found anything within this document to corroborate Mr and Mrs Ws 
allegations. In particular, that there was any reference to the product purchased 
being an investment or any guarantees as regards its future saleability. Further, I can 
find no refence to the product generating a profit (potential or otherwise) or its ability 
to generate any investment return or rental income.
Because of that, I cant reasonably reach the conclusion that Mr and Mrs W were told 
something by A that amounted to misrepresentation. Specifically, that A represented 
their purchase in 2016 as an investment.
The sales process
Its alleged that A used aggressive and persistent sales tactics and it was made 
clear they had to make the decision on the day and were given no time to think 
about it in any detail. 
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs W say in their testimony about the length of the 
sales presentation they attended. So, I can understand why its argued that the 
prolonged nature of the presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as they approached the closing stages, they were going to have to 
make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not 
have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs W agreed to the purchase in 2016 when they simply didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on to say 
something to A, after the purchase, to suggest theyd agreed to it when they didnt 
want to. And they havent provided a credible explanation for why they didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period usually 
permitted here. 
If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt they were pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr and Mrs W were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate they made the decision to proceed because their ability to exercise 
choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Ive considered the Supreme Court decision in Plevin which makes clear, it doesnt 
automatically follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purposes of 
S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at 
in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical way. As S140A (2) says, courts 
shall have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the 
creditor [VFL] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr and Mrs W])., it is wide enough 
to include the consumers ongoing exposure and how a supplier has enforced any 
terms that are or might be unfair.
Mr and Mrs W already held an existing timeshare product theyd purchased 
previously from A. And theyve confirmed theyd attended a previous meeting and 
presentation with A. So, importantly this wasnt their first purchase from A. And 
neither was it their last. Mr and Mrs M werent new customers and I think its likely 
they wouldve benefitted from their previous experience and what they might expect 
from the meeting and sales presentation in 2016.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr and Mrs Ss overall experience. And even if I was to 
find that some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make 
no such finding  I think its unlikely a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme 
imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
As Ive already said, Ive seen limited documentation from the time of the sale. But 
having previously seen similar documents relating to As product sales, Im aware 
they do include a period of 14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase within 
which to cancel the agreement without giving any reason  as required under the 
TRs. 
So, even if I were to find that Mr and Mrs W werent given adequate opportunity to 
read and consider the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I make 
no such finding - I would expect them to have had sufficient time in which to consider 
their decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise any 
questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs W did raise any questions or 
concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that they had any intention of 
cancelling the agreement. Furthermore, its apparent they went on to make further 
purchases.
Disclosure of Commissions
Part of Mr and Mrs Ws claim questions the status of A (as the introducer of the loan) 
and their resultant responsibilities towards them. In particular, its argued that a payment of commission by VFL to A wasnt declared to Mr and Mrs W. But I dont 
think the fact that VFL might have paid A commission was incompatible with their role 
in the transaction. A wasnt acting as an agent for Mr and Mrs W, but as the supplier 
of contractual rights obtained under a timeshare product agreement. And, in relation 
to any loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to 
make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr and Mrs W advice 
or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr and Mrs W were always at 
liberty to choose how they wanted to fund any purchase and there was no 
requirement or duty upon A to provide funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. As I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by lenders to suppliers (like A 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest otherwise. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would 
find that any non-disclosure and payment of commission created an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Ws claim that could be considered outside 
of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. Mr and Mrs W have made an allegation suggesting the loan was 
provided irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by A 
or VFL.
VFL havent provided specific details of the checks they undertook. So, If I were to 
find that they hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, 
they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for 
Mr and Mrs W in order to uphold their complaint here. 
Mr and Mrs W provided copies of their personal bank account statements for the 
three-month period up to the point of the purchase in November 2016. Our 
investigator attempted to construct an analysis of Mr and Mrs Ws income and 
expenditure during that period to try to establish whether there were any existing 
indicators they might not be able to afford the loan provided by VFL. 
Ive considered that information carefully. Unfortunately, its not entirely clear what Mr 
and Mrs Ws complete financial situation was at the time. Ive also not seen a copy of 
their personal credit files. That said, the personal bank account statements show that 
the accounts appear well managed. And although each account benefits from its own 
agreed overdraft limit, these are rarely (if ever) used. 
Accepting that the amount borrowed wasnt insubstantial, I havent seen any 
evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or unsuitable for them. And Ive not 
seen anything that supports any allegation of financial difficulty from that time. I 
accept that Mr and Mrs W say they subsequently re-mortgaged their property to 
restructure the loan (and subsequent loans). However, their testimony suggests this 
was done in order to benefit from lower UK interest rates at the time, rather than in 
an attempt to address any financial problems.
With no other specific information about Mr and Mrs Ws actual position at the time 
and no supporting evidence that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant 
reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for them or that they suffered loss as 
a consequence.
SummaryI would like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive carefully considered everything 
theyve said together with all the information they (and the PR) provided and referred 
to. Their complaint relates specifically to their purchase in November 2016. So, while 
theyve said a lot about other purchases  and the actions of A generally, I can only 
consider the specifics of what happened in November 2016.  I appreciate they will be 
disappointed, but in the absence of specific corroborating evidence from the time of 
the sale in 2016, for the reasons Ive said above, I cant reasonably say that VFLs 
failure to uphold their claim was unfair or unreasonable. Because of that, I currently 
dont intend to ask VFL to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VFL havent responded to my provisional decision (PD). 
The PR acknowledged receipt and requested more time to consult with Mr and Mrs W before 
providing any further comment and evidence. So, I agreed to extend the time permitted in 
this case.
The PR have now responded providing further comments and information for me to 
consider. I will summarise these below together with my observations and responses. The 
PR have also referenced a points-based product that doesnt appear to be the one 
purchased by Mr and Mrs W in November 2016. So, I cant see this has relevance to their 
specific complaint here.
Mr and Mrs W have made various observations and comments they feel are relevant to the 
outcome of their complaint to VFL. This is supported with copies of email exchanges, social 
media posts and messaging service transcripts. I dont propose to detail everything thats 
been said although Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that I have looked at everything theyve 
provided.
The purchase price 
Its suggested that while the documented purchase price I mentioned in my PD is correct 
(according to the documentation provided), A omitted to include details and value attributed 
to existing timeshare products which were traded against the purchase in November 2016. 
And as a consequence, Mr and Mrs W believe the real price paid was higher. 
Ultimately, I dont think this has bearing upon my findings here. I explained in my PD that the 
documented purchase price exceeded the amount covered under both S75 and S75a. And 
that remains the case, whether or not any trade in value is factored in.
Mr Ws understanding during the sales presentation
Its suggested that Mr Ws personal circumstances impeded his ability to fully take in and 
understand what was presented at the time of the sales presentation. 
The documentation shows the purchase was in joint names. And Mrs W was, as I 
understand it, present at all times. Furthermore, as I said in my PD, Mr and Mrs W benefited 
from the 14-day cooling off period permitted under the TRs. And with nothing to suggest 
they raised any questions or concerns during that period, I think its unlikely a court would 
find this caused unfairness under S140A.
Assurances of rental and resale potential
Mr and Mrs W insist A made verbal assurances using the word investment. But in the 
absence of anything to corroborate that assertion leading up to and at the time of the sale, 
its still not possible for me to be certain about what was or wasnt actually said. I also dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary to 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to the product Mr and Mrs 
W purchased here. And Ive found nothing within the limited evidence provided from the time 
of the sale which suggests A provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value 
of that product. 
It would need to be evidenced that A had presented the product in such a way that used its 
investment element to persuade Mr and Mrs W to contract. Only then is it possible it could 
have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. Ive not been provided with anything 
from the time of the sale that supports that allegation. 
Attempts to rent/sell the timeshare
Mr and Mrs W outline issues they experienced when trying to put their timeshare up for 
rental and/or resale. Theyve supported this by providing copies of email exchanges from 
2018 and 2019  some time after the purchase was completed. 
Having considered the limited documentation available from the time of the sale, I havent 
found anything to suggest A had any contractual obligation to provide such a service or gave 
any guarantee of success. Mr and Mrs W have provided a copy of a rental agreement from 
January 2019  more than two years after the original sales presentation. It clearly states A 
cannot guarantee any amount of rental return. 
Ive also seen email evidence that Mr and Mrs W tried to rent out and/or resell the timeshare 
weeks associated with the product they purchased. And while this might have formed part of 
their own personal strategy, I cant fairly say, with any certainty, that strategy resulted from 
anything A said to them at the time of the sale.
Subsequent redevelopment delays
Mr and Mrs W suggest A made certain assurances  after the purchase  regarding plans 
for redevelopment and expansion of their resort which were subsequently delayed. However, 
Ive seen no evidence this either formed part of the original sales presentation or that those 
plans pre-existed the sale in question. And because of that, I dont see how this would have 
influenced Mr and Mrs Ws decision to complete the purchase in November 2016. 
If it was proven delays in any redevelopment resulted in losses for Mr and Mrs W  
specifically relating to the product they purchased in November 2016 - its possible this 
couldve resulted in a breach of contract. Particularly if it meant Mr and Mrs W couldnt use 
the product theyd purchased. However, I make no such finding here. And as I cant see that 
such a claim has been made to VFL anyway, I dont think this helps the complaint being 
considered.
The relationship with employees of A
Mr and Mrs W have referred to As salesperson and their partner (also an employee of A). 
Theyve provided evidence from social media and messaging services to illustrate the 
relationship that developed between them and how this influenced them. 
Its not uncommon for personal relationships to be formed between consumers and 
individual employees of a business. Particular where theres ongoing and regular interaction 
as a consequence of the product purchased. The legislation, regulations and codes of 
practice that apply serve to ensure that consumers are treated fairly  regardless of any 
relationship that may or may not develop. While I acknowledge Mr and Mrs thoughts on this 
aspect, Ive already considered the regulations that applied in my PD and how they relate 
specifically to the purchase in November 2016. 
Mr and Mrs Ws comments havent persuaded me to vary from those findings. Importantly, it 
seems most of this evidence and activity post-dates the product sale being considered here. So, I cant say this influenced Mr and Mrs Ws original decision to proceed with the 
purchase.
Links between A, VFL and another entity
Mr and Mrs W have provided an overview of links theyve identified between various entities 
theyve dealt with during the period of their timeshare ownership. They also highlight 
common individuals associated with those various entities. However, their concerns appear 
to relate to events they say occurred after they purchased the product in November 2016. 
And as there hasnt been any specific claim or complaint made to VFL relating to those 
events, or the other related entities and individuals I dont see how they would be relevant to 
their decision to purchase in November 2016.
Imputation & Vicarious Liability
Mr and Mrs W believe the actions of various individuals and entities (after the sale in 
November 2016) ultimately resulted in unfairness which they believe should be considered 
by this service. 
This service can only consider complaints against regulated financial businesses  in this 
case VFL. Im unable to consider concerns about other entities as part of the specific 
complaint against VFL where there isnt a link to the original purchase and a resultant link via 
the CCA. This service also isnt afforded powers to consider complaints against other types 
of businesses or individuals which arent regulated by the FCA  including A. 
I explained in my PD that I can only consider the claims against VFL under S140A and 
whether VFLs response to Mr and Mrs Ws claim was fair and reasonable. And thats what 
Ive done here. Much of what has been said Ive already addressed in my PD. And nothing 
new thats been provided here leads me to vary from those findings.  
Summary
Most (if not all) of what Mr and Mrs W have said and provided in response to my PD relates 
to events and exchanges that happened after theyd already agreed to purchase the product 
in November 2016. So, while its clear they believe these serve to illustrate the alleged 
misrepresentations and unfairness, I cant fairly say that anything theyve shown was said or 
done after the sale contributed to their original decision to purchase.
I would like to reiterate that I fully appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations and strength of 
feeling here. But having carefully considered everything, Im not persuaded to vary from my 
provisional findings. And as a consequence, I wont be asking VFL to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman