DRN-3954299
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined 
a claim for critical illness under a life insurance policy, after Mr C had a coronary angioplasty.
What happened
In 2001, Mr C bought a life insurance policy in connection with a mortgage. The policy was 
to run for 19 years and would pay a benefit of £120,000 in the event of Mr Cs death. The 
policy also included critical illness cover. 
The history to this complaint is well known to the parties. Ive taken note of the chronology of 
events, but wont repeat everything here. In brief summary, Mr Cs coronary issues led to 
him first undergoing a stenting procedure to one artery in 2014. Thereafter, his condition was 
managed medically, with further tests and investigations carried out periodically.  
On 16 November 2020, Mr C attended an Accident & Emergency department. He was 
admitted to a cardiac ward for further investigation but discharged later the same day with 
follow-up planned for four to six weeks. On 30 November 2020, Mr C contacted the 
cardiology department, due to side effects with medication and ongoing chest discomfort. 
His consultant agreed to review his symptoms in a telephone clinic. The clinic appointment 
took place on 11 January 2021, after which Mr C was referred for an MRI. Following 
evaluation of the scan results, Mr Cs consultant referred him for an angiogram with an 
option to perform a stenting procedure at the same time, if deemed necessary. This 
procedure took place on 14 May 2021, with the surgeon determining it was appropriate to fit 
a stent to a second coronary artery. Meanwhile, Mr Cs policy had expired on 1 December 
2020.  
In July 2021 Mr C made a claim on his policy. This was later declined on the grounds that 
the policy had expired prior to Mr Cs second surgery in May 2021. Royal London noted that 
there were no medical concerns that surgery should have taken place prior to the expiry of 
your policy. Mrs C and Mr C asked for the decision to be reviewed. Royal London asked 
their chief medical officer  a cardiologist  to review the evidence. Following this, Royal 
Londons position remained the same. 
Mrs C and Mr C did not accept this outcome, so came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
They said that Mr Cs illness had been identified before the policy expiry and that delays in 
accessing investigative tests and treatment were as a result of the pandemic. 
An investigator looked into things for Mrs C and Mr C but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt think the policy definition had been met prior to the end of the policy. So 
she didnt think Royal London had treated Mrs C and Mr C unfairly. 
Mrs C and Mr C disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very significant and 
unwelcome news for Mrs C and Mr C and I am sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons. I 
appreciate the considerable efforts Mrs C and Mr C have made to provide evidence to 
support their complaint. Ive reviewed everything theyve sent us. But I will focus my decision 
on the points and evidence I consider material to the outcome. So, if I dont refer to a 
particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it carefully. 
Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Additionally, they should comply with 
industry guidance, such as that produced by the Association of British Insurers (ABI). I dont 
find that Royal London has breached any rules or guidance. Ill explain why.
Critical illness policies are designed to provide cover for the most common types of serious 
illness or condition and most commonly occurring serious events. But they dont cover all 
critical illnesses or conditions in all circumstances. 
The relevant term in Mr Cs policy is angioplasty (2 or more arteries). The accompanying 
definition is:
Undergoing on 2 or more coronary arteries:
balloon angioplasty
atherectomy
rotablation
laser treatment, or
the application of stents for coronary artery disease
 
There must be angiographic or equivalent evidence of the underlying disease, which 
shows there is a stenosis of at least 50% narrowing of 2 or more coronary arteries. The 
disease must be considered uncontrollable by non-invasive medical therapy.
The medical records confirm that Mr C has suffered poor health in recent years. But the 
issue in this complaint is a very specific one - did Mr C meet the policy term under the 
relevant critical illness definition whilst the policy was in force? And the policy term Mr C had 
to meet is not about the diagnosis of an illness or condition, but about receiving a particular 
treatment for that condition. 
Mr C had arterial stenosis which resulted in him undergoing a stenting procedure in his left 
anterior descending artery in 2014. But stenting in a second artery  Mr Cs right coronary 
artery  wasnt confirmed as necessary and carried out until May 2021.  As the policy is 
dependent on a relevant procedure having been carried out, Mr C doesnt meet the 
angioplasty definition, as the procedure didnt take place during the life of the policy. Mrs C and Mr C have argued that Mr Cs tests and treatment were delayed due to the impact 
of the pandemic. Ive seen evidence from one of Mr Cs treating cardiologists which supports 
this point. Mrs C and Mr C say they shouldnt be disadvantaged as a result of these delays. 
Ive thought about this carefully. I accept there were some delays in accessing investigative 
tests and those tests being evaluated. But I dont agree that any impact of the pandemic 
prevented Mr C receiving a qualifying procedure prior to the policy expiring. 
I say this noting particularly the Discharge Summary Notification record for Mr Cs admission 
to the cardiac monitoring unit on 16 November 2020, which gives a description of the recent 
clinical history and test results. It then says:
Started on Bisoprolol and isosorbide mononitrate MR for angina. Mr C enquired as to 
if stents would be needed, explained we will medically manage first which will 
hopefully resolve symptoms. Advised to use GTN spray if chest pain recurs. Will be 
followed up in clinic with Dr B in 4-6 weeks. Deemed medically fit for discharge. 
After Mr C contacted the cardiology department on 30 November 2020, Dr B wrote to Mr Cs 
GP to vary his drug regime. He concluded by saying:
We have arranged to review his symptoms urgently in a telephone clinic, should he 
remain symptomatic despite medical therapy then further angiography +/- 
intervention will be considered.
Ive not seen any medical evidence to suggest Mr Cs condition on 16 November 2020 was 
deemed urgent and that immediate surgery was considered at that point. The evidence 
indicates that the first course of action was to see if symptoms resolved with a change in 
medical therapy. That remained the position on 1 December 2020, when Dr B wrote to Mr 
Cs GP, after Mr Cs contact with the cardiology department the day before. 
Mrs C and Mr C have also said the claim should be accepted because Mr C had been told 
he would need further stents in the future. I can understand Mrs C and Mr Cs argument. But 
I think the policy term is clear that the angioplasty procedure is the insured event. And its 
generally understood that claims are only considered for events occurring within the life of 
the policy, not those which happen when the policy is no longer in force. 
I acknowledge the timing in this complaint is extremely unfortunate for Mrs C and Mr C. But 
there was no insured event within the life of the policy. So in all the circumstances, I dont 
think Royal London acted unreasonably in declining Mr Cs claim. 
Once again, Im sorry to send difficult and disappointing news to Mrs C and Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman