DRN-2974890
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 84,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it not to be in the same condition as a brand-new car and that theyd 
expect some wear and tear to be present. But I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect a fault to be developing that would render the car uneconomical to repair.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when SMF were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Im persuaded this fault was most likely to 
have been developing within the first six months as the independent engineers, who have 
provided reports, both think its likely the advisory listed on the August 2019 paperwork, 
relating to balance gear wear, was the start of the problem.
The independent engineer commissioned by SMF says:
The wear erosion levels would suggest the vehicle has continued to be driven on in a 
distressed condition and this has ultimately resulted in the balance shaft fracturing and 
causing consequential damage to the engine block that now necessitates the replacement of 
the engine block and balance shaft, along with the auxiliaries, such as the water pump, 
thermostat, and radiator.
And the inspector commissioned by Mr H says:
I would normally expect a balance shaft system to last the life of an engine at approximately 
200,000 miles. This one has failed at less than half that mileage and was probably starting to 
fail when the unusual noise was apparent after the DPF was rectified soon after it was 
purchased, but probably before then.
That inspector also suggested that the failure to the balance shaft mechanism was unusual 
and that the mechanism should last the lifetime of the car. So, I dont think the failure can 
fairly be considered to be related to normal wear and tear.
SMF say that Mr H was warned about the dangers of continuing to drive with the worn 
balance gear but Im not persuaded the note on the job sheet would have given Mr H reason 
to believe the car was unsafe to drive or in need of immediate attention. I dont think he 
would therefore have been conscious of the damage that was likely to have been done by 
him continuing to drive the car. The note simply said:
Noise present from underside of vehicle; suspect balancer gear wearing.
I can see that the dealership say they warned Mr H of the consequences in an email. But 
that email was sent to SMF and Ive not seen evidence it was subsequently forwarded to   
Mr H.
So, I think there is evidence this car was not of satisfactory quality as it was likely to have 
been developing a fault with the balance shaft mechanism when it was supplied.
Putting things right
The independent inspectors have confirmed that its not economical to repair this car and in 
those circumstances I think SMF should now allow Mr H to reject it and they should end his 
finance agreement with them.
Mr H was able to cover more than 13,500 miles in the car in just over a year before it failed 
catastrophically. Thats more than average use and I therefore think Mr H has had 
reasonable use of the vehicle in the time before the failure in August 2020. I dont think it 
would therefore be fair to ask SMF to refund any finance instalments.
SMF say that Mr H hasnt made a payment since March 2020 and Mr H has explained that 
he was on a payment holiday for a time. Its not fair for Mr H to be paying for a car he 
couldnt use so I dont think any payments are owing from August 2020. But the payments 
due during the payment holiday would have become due. Ive considered whether to ask   
Mr H to pay those but I think its fair for SMF to waive them in respect of the loss of use he 
had when the car was initially in the garage for repair in August 2019 and also in respect of 
the increased travel costs Mr H has listed. Im not persuaded to refund all of those travel 
costs as I think it would quickly have become apparent to Mr H that the car was not going to 
be repaired quickly. In those circumstances I think he could have mitigated his losses by 
looking at longer term car hire options. Im persuaded that by waiving the finance instalments that would have been due immediately prior to the catastrophic failure, it is sufficient 
compensation for any reasonable consequential travel costs.
Mr H had to pay for an independent inspection to support his claim and I think, in the 
circumstances, SMF should refund that £400 cost. Theyll need to add interest to that refund 
as Mr H has been deprived of the money.
SMF should refund any deposit that may have been made and again they should add 
interest as Mr H will have been deprived of that money.
Mr H has explained that there have been significant storage costs levied since the car has 
been at the garage. I dont think it would be fair for him to pay those costs and I think SMF 
should foot that bill and pay the costs on Mr Hs behalf. Mr H will need to provide them with 
the invoice.
Mr H has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to wait a long time for a 
resolution to his case and has been inconvenienced by having to use public transport. Hes 
also had to commission his own independent inspector and has had to escalate his 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances, I would agree with the investigator that SMF should pay Mr H £500 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing more to pay.
Refund any deposit Mr H has paid adding 8% simple interest* per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £400 Mr H paid for his inspection report and add 8% simple interest* per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund any storage costs when Mr H provides the bill.
Record the agreement as settled on Mr Hs credit file and remove any adverse 
reports they may have made to that file in relation to this issue.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SMF to take off tax from this interest. SMF must give    
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr H asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman