DRN-3288841
The complaint
Mr K complains that a fault with the IG Index Limiteds trading app, caused him to sell shares 
instead of buy them. He says he wants compensation for the financial loss hes made.
What happened
Mr K has an execution only trading account with IG Index. In April 2021 he wanted to buy 
shares in a company which Ill refer to as T. He used IG Indexs app on his android phone. 
He says that he clicked on the buy option, but shares were sold by mistake.
IG Index said there were no errors with its app. It said the buy and sale options toggle 
between the two when clicked. It said the selection option is clearly displayed and a further 
confirmation is required before the trade takes place. Whilst it said it hadnt made a mistake, 
it paid Mr K £348.91, being half of the foreign exchange costs, as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was a glitch or error with the app and that IG Index had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr K didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He may have clicked on the buy button more than once, but this shouldnt have led to a 
sale instruction. He never intended to sell.
The buy and sell options were two distinct options, not a toggle. This part of the app was 
misleading and badly designed.
The iPhone app did not include this feature and the android app has now been 
changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. 
I dont have the power to tell a business how it should treat all customers or how it develops 
its internal policies and, here, its trading apps. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Having considered everything very carefully, I find I have come to the same conclusion as 
the investigator for the following reasons:
The app included two buttons to buy or sell shares. Mr K clicked on the buy button and the 
buy option was checked. He then clicked on the buy button again. This unchecked the buy 
option and checked the sell button. IG provided us with screen shots and I think it is 
reasonably clear which option has been selected. And I dont find it unusual or misleading 
that clicking on a button more than once will uncheck the button originally chosen and check 
the alternative button.
The sale of shares didnt take place until Mr K was presented with the instructions hed given 
and was asked to click a button to confirm. I find he was given the opportunity to check the 
instructions he was giving before the trade took place.
I appreciate Mr K will not agree with me. And I do understand that he never intended to sell 
his T shares and that, in doing so, he made a financial loss. But I need to decide if the 
instruction he gave to sell T shares was because of an error by IG Index. And I dont find it 
was.
Mr K says that the android app differed from the iPhone app. And that the android app has 
now been changed so that the issue he is complaining about doesnt happen now. But this 
does not make a difference to my conclusion. Its not unusual for apps to be differently 
designed for different operating systems and it doesnt follow that any difference means one 
is right and one is wrong. And, whilst the android app has now been updated, Ive not found 
there was a mistake with the app when Mr K used it.
IG Index refunded half of Mr Ks foreign exchange costs as a gesture of goodwill. As I dont 
find it has done anything wrong, it follows that I dont require it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman