DRN-3851857
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he financed through a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle (OFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then OFS, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was about 
three years old and had completed about 54,000 miles so I think a reasonable person would 
expect there to be some wear and tear present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when OFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr C has provided a copy of a diagnostic report he had completed within the first month of 
the agreement. That diagnostic does list several fault codes but goes on to explain that the 
software was out of date and that an update may remove those fault codes. Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest those errors persisted, so I think they were removed, and the issue 
resolved.
Mr C also had problems with the clutch, flywheel, heat exchanger, head gasket, and 
potentially with the turbo, but these problems began after hed had the car for well over a 
year and the relevant legislation therefore put the onus on Mr C to demonstrate those faults 
were present or developing when the car was supplied to him.
Im not persuaded I have evidence that was the case. The independent inspection 
commissioned by OFS in July 2022 didnt suggest that was likely. The expert engineer 
suggested the potential issue with the turbo would have been picked up in the previous 
MOTs if it had been faulty at that point and he suggested it was likely that fault was due to 
wear and tear and was not therefore OFSs responsibility. The engineer couldnt find 
evidence of faults that he would consider to be present or developing at the point the car 
was supplied to Mr C. 
By the time the clutch and flywheel failed Mr C had been able to cover at least 10,000 miles 
in the car and I think its likely those issues would have come to light earlier if theyd been 
present when the car was supplied. And by the time the head gasket and heat exchanger 
needed attention hed travelled about 14,000 miles and thered been no mention of any 
problems in the previous MOTs. Im not persuaded Mr C has therefore been able to provide 
sufficient evidence those faults were present or developing at the point of supply either. 
If Mr C was told something that was false and that led to him signing up for an agreement he 
wouldnt otherwise have signed up for I may think the finance agreement was 
misrepresented to him. Mr C says he only wanted to pay £10,000 but was persuaded to pay 
£13,000 for the car. He says it was only after reviewing his credit file that he realised he was 
actually paying over £17,000. Ive reviewed the finance agreement and can see the financial 
commitments and interest rate is clearly set out on the first page. The document explains 
that the cost of the goods is £12,999 and the total to pay after the deposit is taken into 
account and interest is added is £17,161. Mr C signed that document on 2 August 2019 and 
was also provided with pre contract credit information that explained the terms of the 
financial commitment in more detail. I think the evidence suggests Mr C was made aware of 
the amount hed have to pay, and Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence the 
agreement was misrepresented to him.
Overall, I dont think OFS need to take any further action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman