DRN-2574368
The complaint
Mr V complains that a default was registered by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)
What happened
Mr V had an account from NatWest since 2006 when he was a student. In October 2017, his 
balance was £1089.76 debit. A default notice was issued, and a default registered in April 
2018. In July 2020, the debt of £1144.17 was written off.
Mr V complained. He was in the army and transferred frequently between overseas postings. 
He therefore didnt get his post. NatWest hadnt tried to email him or call him  or if they had, 
he hadnt received any messages. So - he wasnt aware of the situation with NatWest. And 
the debt was an old one  from when he was a student. So, any default should be backdated 
to then  rather than in 2018. He was now having problems getting credit because of the 
default.
NatWest said theyd tried many times to contact Mr V by phone  to his mobile number, and 
by post  to the address on their records. They also sent emails advising him to check his 
statements online. Mr Vs account was dormant in 2015 to 2016. In 2015, Mr V paid in a 
credit of £2000, but after that the account became dormant again. Letters were sent to him in 
2016, followed by a default notice in August 2016. After another credit was paid in, the 
account became dormant again - a further default notice was sent in October 2017. The 
default was registered on Mr Vs credit file in April 2018. The balance of £1144.17 was 
written off in July 2020. Later  when looking at Mr Vs complaint - NatWest agreed to 
change the date of Mr Vs default to the earlier date of October 2016  when the first default 
notice was sent.
Mr V brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said NatWest had acted 
reasonably. She could see that there wasnt any regular income going into the account, and 
it was largely dormant for long periods. Shes seen that NatWest had sent letters and default 
notices to Mr V. Theyd tried his mobile phone. NatWest couldnt be expected to know that 
Mr V was moving around frequently, or what his situation was. But NatWest had agreed that 
the date of the default should be changed to October 2016 (from April 2018)  and they were 
amending Mr Vs credit file.
Mr V asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr V is coming from. Hes in the army and moves around a lot  and he 
says he doesnt get post easily. He says hed received nothing from NatWest for years until 
he discovered their letter in 2020. He says its also difficult receiving phone calls and 
messages when on active duty  and also emails. He says hed had the debt since he was a 
student years ago and had lost sight of it  or forgotten about it. If hed known about it, he 
would have repaid the debt straight away. Hes having difficulty obtaining credit as a result of 
the default registered on his credit file.
I must decide whether NatWest acted fairly in dealing with Mr Vs debt. They say they made 
several phone calls to Mr V  Ive seen evidence of ten calls between May 2015 and 
December 2017. And they wrote to him also at the addresses they had on file. Ive seen the 
letters and agree they were sent to Mr Vs addresses in the UK. Ive seen the letters they 
wrote to Mr V about the dormant account  and the formal default notice letter sent in 
November 2017. This said that credit reference agencies would be advised if Mr V didnt pay 
off the debt. They also sent him regular emails advising his statement was ready to view 
online. Emails were also sent to notify Mr V of interest and charges being applied. He was 
also making a regular payment to a credit card account through his NatWest account. And  
he paid in some credits to the account. He paid in a credit of £2000 to the account in August 
2015 - Mr V thinks this may have followed a visit to him by debt collectors. So  overall, its 
reasonable to believe that Mr V must have been aware of his debt with NatWest. And 
therefore, he couldve done something about it.
NatWest  like all lenders  have a duty to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies. And given that Mr Vs debt was in default, they had to let the CRAs know about 
this. This was the correct thing to do. And I cant say they made an error here. 
But as a result of our discussions with NatWest, they agreed to change the date of the 
default to the earlier date of Mr Vs first default  October 2016 - rather than April 2018. This 
remains for six years  so at least, this will disappear from Mr Vs record earlier than he first 
thought. Mr V has told us that hes now repaid the debt.
So  and I can see that Mr V will be disappointed by this  my decision is that NatWest acted 
fairly, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman