DRN-3865045
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him for transactions he says he 
didnt make or authorise. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Between January and March 2022, there was numerous payments made that Mr J says he 
didnt make or authorise.  
For ease I will refer to the two claims made. The first was for disputed payments made on 
14 and 15 January 2022 totalling around £15,030. These payments were made to a 
company that buys and sells cryptocurrencies, which Ill call N. 
Mr J has referred to a loan taken out in his name that was credited into his HSBC account. 
Hes said that he didnt take out this loan. For completeness, I think it helpful to explain that 
while this might be referred to for the benefit of setting out what has happened, I understand 
this loan was taken out with a different provider and not HSBC. Therefore, this loan has not 
been considered as part of this complaint which is about the disputed transactions raised on 
Mr Js HSBC account. 
Following this incoming loan credit of £15,000, a second claim for transactions made 
between 25 February and 2 March 2022 totalling around £18,537.50 were made. All the 
transactions in dispute (made across the two claims) totals around £33,567.50. 
HSBC having looked into the matter, noted that Mr J raised a payment made on 6 January 
2022 via his online banking (OLB) to a third party on 7 January 2022. This loss was 
reimbursed to him by the bank. HSBC said regrettably Mr Js OLB account wasnt locked at 
this time. It also acknowledged a delay in responding to his complaint. In recognition of this, 
the bank credited Mr Js account with £75 by way of an apology. 
For the payments Mr J disputed from 14 and 15 January 2022 to N, the bank said several of 
these payments were held for additional checks. Following calls with its fraud team, Mr J 
confirmed the payments as genuine and so the funds were released. On 15 January 2022, 
Mr J reported these payments as unrecognised and his OLB was locked. HSBC adds that 
given the previous conversations the bank had with Mr J about these payments it was 
unable to accept them as fraudulent. 
In March 2022, further payments to a car dealership and third party were disputed. HSBC 
say there were no changes to the device used to access the mobile banking app and there 
had been no reactivation of Mr Js security information before the payments were made. 
Therefore, it was unable to accept these payments as fraudulent. 
Unhappy, Mr J brought the complaint to this service. Our Investigator having considered 
everything didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Overall, he thought it was more likely 
than not Mr J authorised the disputed transactions, either by making the payments himself or 
allowing someone else to make them. He said the bank had shown the payments were 
authenticated and that he thought Mr J had consented to them being made. 
Mr J disagreed, maintaining that there was no way the payments couldve been made with 
his mobile devices. I note at one-point Mr J said this was because he had his mobiles with 
him, but he then said his mobiles were in the possession of the police. Mr J also reiterated 
that he did not know the beneficiaries for the payments raised in March 2022. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised the matter in my own words and in less detail than has been provided.
No discourtesy is intended by this as it enables me to focus on the key issues of this 
complaint. 
In a case like this, I can never say for certain what has actually happened. The difficulty here 
is it is not very clear exactly what happened or how it happened. I find there have been, at 
points, differing explanations and information provided. In such circumstances, I must base 
my findings on the evidence that is available. That includes Mr Js version of events, as well 
as records from HSBC that show things like: how and when transactions were made. 
Sometimes evidence may be incomplete or missing. With all of that in mind, I must make my 
findings on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what I consider is more likely than not 
to have happened.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 are particularly relevant to this complaint. Broadly 
speaking, they set out when a customer can and cant be held responsible for transactions 
on their account. If transactions were properly authorised  having been authenticated and 
consented to  then the bank can fairly hold its customer responsible for them, even if they 
dispute making them. But the bank must provide evidence to show the transactions were 
authorised. 
For ease I will set out my thoughts for each of the claims raised. 
Payments made on 14 and 15 January 2022
I dont think it was unreasonable of HSBC to have concluded Mr J authorised the 
transactions made to N in January 2022. 
Looking at the technical evidence provided by the bank, I can see the payments in dispute to 
N were made via Mr Js mobile banking. This information also shows that the same mobile 
device used to make undisputed transactions in previous months (between September and 
December 2021), was the same device used to make the payments on 14 and 15 January 
2022. 
I do recognise in conversations with our Investigator that Mr J explained he didnt invest in 
cryptocurrency and that it wasnt him. Mr J also questioned why he would have invested into 
it. But I cant overlook that I have listened to calls between Mr J and the bank in which he 
confirmed payments made to N were genuine. For example, I have listened to a call on 
14 January 2022, in which Mr J spoke with the bank about a £5,000 payment attempted to 
N. In this call, he clarified the payment that was held for a check was to N and that this was cryptocurrency/trading. Mr J said he wanted to make further payments to N. From what Ive 
heard, I am persuaded it was Mr J who was speaking with the bank on this call and, in view 
of this, Im satisfied the payments made to N were authorised by him.
I am mindful that during our investigation into Mr Js complaint, he informed our Investigator 
that he did have a black book where he wrote information down for his own sake. Mr J went 
on to tell him that this was not in his possession, although I understand Mr J is not clear on 
when the black book was no longer with him. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J has said about the black book and this not being in 
his possession. But even if someone else had obtained the black book, I havent been 
given any plausible explanation as to how this person would also have been able to obtain a 
mobile device, which was the same device Mr J had used to make undisputed transactions 
in previous months, without his knowledge or consent. 
Further, Mr J has provided an email dated 27 October 2022, from the police which says 
three mobile phones were seized from him on 31 December 2021 and that two of these 
mobile devices remained with the police. Mr J told us that he didnt have any personal 
mobile devices because of this and that he didnt have his OLB on his work mobile. 
Given the information provided and the differing testimony at points, it is very difficult to know 
for sure what happened here. As by Mr Js version of events, his mobile devices were with 
the police, but this doesnt appear consistent with the technical evidence provided that 
shows a device he used to make undisputed transactions between September 2021 and 
December 2021 (prior to the mobile devices being retained by the police), was the same 
device used to make transactions in January 2022. 
Given the evidence provided, alongside what Ive seen and been told, Im unable to find any 
plausible explanation as to how an unknown third party couldve made the payments Mr Js 
disputed in January 2022. All in all, Im persuaded it is more likely than not that the payments 
were authorised by Mr J or that he provided his authority/consent for someone else to make 
the transactions. 
Payments made between 25 February and 2 March 2022
Mr J strongly maintains that the transactions in dispute were not made by him and that he 
does not know the car dealership or the third party the payments were made to. 
Similar to what Ive set out above, the banks technical information shows the disputed 
transactions raised in March 2022 were made from a device Mr J used previously. From the 
information provided, I can see Mr J made payments to another cryptocurrency exchange  
Ill refer to as C. Having listened to other calls between Mr J and the bank, one from when he 
attended a branch on 26 February 2022, to verify himself with his driving licence and to 
speak about a payment to C. In this call, Mr J said he wanted this transaction to go through 
and he also confirmed hed made previous, smaller payments of £20 and £1.46 to C to make 
sure he could send it. Mr J also confirmed hed opened the account with C himself and that 
hed had this account for a month or so. 
So while I note what Mr J said to our Investigator in his contact with him about not investing 
in cryptocurrency, Im afraid based on what Ive heard in the calls with the bank, Im satisfied 
that Mr J did make payments for the purpose of investing and that he confirmed payments to 
C were genuine. 
Ive seen information that shows the payments made to C were done using the same device 
that made the payments to the car dealership and the third party in dispute. Again, for largely the same reasons as Ive already explained above, Im unable to find any plausible 
explanation as to how an unknown third party couldve made the payments that Mr Js 
disputed in March 2022. 
It is possible that there is information Mr J hasnt provided to us or that hes not shared about 
these payments. But in the absence of this, I have to reach my findings based on the 
available evidence.
To summarise, all Ive set out here points to the more likely than not explanation being that 
Mr J either made the transactions himself or gave a third-party authority to carry out the 
transactions. In either of these situations, Mr J would be deemed responsible for the 
spending, even if he didnt necessarily know about all the spending in advance. I cant 
completely rule out that an unknown fraudster obtained the black book and Mr Js banking 
credentials/details without him knowing, but this doesnt provide any plausible explanation as 
to how they wouldve obtained Mr Js devices  which by his testimony were in the 
possession of the police. But for the reasons Ive said, the available evidence doesnt point 
to that as being what more likely than not happened. And so, I find the bank have fairly and 
reasonably declined to refund Mr J.
It follows that in the circumstances of this complaint, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask HSBC to 
refund Mr J the disputed transactions. HSBC has recognised that there was a delay in 
responding to his complaint and that there was an error in not locking Mr Js online banking 
after he disputed a payment on 7 January 2022. But overall, I dont find this changes my 
conclusions. I also find the £75 credited to Mr Js account fair and reasonable and, so I dont 
make any further recommendation on this aspect. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman