DRN-3908654
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained about the wording of the business 
interruption insurance cover in the policy it held with Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds).
Mr L, a director of C has complained on Cs behalf through a representative. For ease of
reading I will refer to C throughout.
Reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriting syndicate.
What happened
C held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. C claimed on its policy after its business
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Lloyds declined Cs claim as it said the policy required the interruption to Cs business to be 
caused by damage, and the interruption to Cs business hadnt been caused by damage.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, C brought its complaint to our service. It said it did not
dispute that the clause for murder, suicide or disease within its policy was drafted in such a
way as to require damage. However, it thought the drafting of the policy was illogical as no
policyholder could receive cover under the part of the clause which related to business 
interruption or interference caused by diseases within 25 miles of its business premises.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint and recommended it should be upheld. She didnt
think the requirement for damage made sense within the clause and was therefore likely to
be a drafting error. She thought a reasonable policyholder entering into the contract would
interpret the clause to not require damage and on that basis the extension would provide 
cover. She therefore recommended that Lloyds pay Cs claim.
C didnt provide any further comments in response to our investigators recommendation.
Lloyds didnt agree to the recommendation, so the complaint has been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 January 2023 explaining why I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Cs business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
The extension for murder, suicide or disease says:
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business caused by damage, as defined in clause 8.1, arising from:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak
of which the local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by
any person whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;
b) murder or suicide in the premises;
c) injury or illness sustained by any person arising from or traceable to foreign or
injurious matter in food or drink provided in the premises;
d) vermin or pests in the premises;
e) the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order of a competent public
authority consequent upon defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at
the premises.
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter
during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the
damage.
The core business interruption cover (at section 8.1) provided by Cs policy covers loss as a
result of business interruption or interference resulting from damage to property at Cs 
premises. The policy defines damage as physical loss, physical damage, physical 
destruction.
C accepts that the policy requires there to have been damage and it doesnt seem to be in
dispute that Cs loss was [not] as a result of damage. However, for completeness I would 
add that I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change 
or altered state to Cs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption 
to Cs business was as a result of damage.
The General Definitions page of the policy says that any word in bold will have the same 
meaning throughout the policy. As the word damage is highlighted in bold I think the 
definition within the policy applies and I think for the extension to provide cover, the 
interruption to the business must be caused by a physical loss, physical damage or physical
destruction.
As a starting point, Ive considered what a reasonable reader, with all of the background 
knowledge which would reasonably have been available to them, would reasonably have
thought when entering into the contract. Having done so, in my view, the wording of the 
policy is clear to the parties entering into the contract that there is a requirement for damage
to have occurred in order for this extension to apply.
I do find it difficult to think of many scenarios where a disease which occurred within a 25
mile radius of the insured premises would cause physical damage at the premises and I can
understand Cs frustration with this. However, I accept that other parts of this clause could
provide cover which wouldnt be covered elsewhere. For example, interruption caused by
vermin chewing through cables wouldnt be covered under the core business interruption
insurance section (as the damage would be excluded under the property damage section)
but would be covered by point d) of this clause.
In my view, given the meaning of the clause is clear, that some parts of it provide limited 
cover isnt a reason to conclude that it should be interpreted as a non-damage denial of
access clause. I think the clause was clear to both parties when they entered into the 
contract and a lack of cover, isnt in itself enough for me to find that the policy should be
reworded so as to provide cover.I have also considered whether there was an obvious error in the drafting, but I dont think 
there was. The wording referring to 8.1 hasnt been inserted into every part of 8.2 which 
indicates to me that its likely the reference to 8.1 was put deliberately into those clauses 
where Lloyds intended it to apply. Also, the other extensions within the policy require there 
to have been damage, which indicates to me that Lloyds intended to cover business 
interruption only as a result of damage. Many insurance policies only cover business 
interruption as a result of damage and Im not aware that C paid any additional amount for 
non-damage cover.
I can see from the example policy C provided that Lloyds has other policies with similar
wording but without the requirement for damage. However, insurers can choose which risks
they want to insure, and in this case, I dont believe that the similarity to any other policy is
enough to persuade me that there was a drafting error.
When considering the policy as a whole, on balance, Im persuaded that Lloyds intended to 
draft the policy as its written, which requires there to have been damage. As I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption was as a result of damage, I dont believe that this 
extension provides cover.
I recognise this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds did not respond by the required date, but C didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
It said that the clause was unfairly worded as it could never provide cover. C said that 
another insurer with identical wording had agreed to pay claims under the same clause so it 
thought its claim should be covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
I accept that the cover provided under the part of the clause which relates to diseases within 
25 miles of Cs premises appears to be limited but, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont believe that is sufficient reason to uphold this complaint. 
I have also considered Cs point that another insurer has paid claims under this clause. 
However, in my view, that isnt enough to persuade me to depart from the findings I reached 
in my provisional decision. Even though another insurer decided the clause should be 
interpreted to provide cover, for the reasons set out above, I believe that it is reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude that the clause requires there to have been damage in order to provide 
cover. 
As there isnt anything to indicate that the interruption to Cs business was as a result of 
damage I am not going to require Lloyds to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman