DRN-4426684
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to update his bank account 
postal address.
What happened
Mr M says he wrote to Barclays to change his address but mistakenly quoted incorrect 
account details. Mr M says Barclays wrote back a few days later to his new address, asking 
for a new instruction letter which Mr M says he did, assuming matters had been sorted. Mr M 
says he and his brother then telephoned Barclays in May 2023 to enquire when his new 
debit card would be sent to him as it was about to expire and to what address it would be 
sent. Mr M says what followed was a series of telephone calls, but Barclays still refused to 
change his address without making a long journey to a local branch as Mr M didnt have 
access to telephone or online banking. 
Mr M feels Barclays could have done more to help him as he is a vulnerable person and 
should have taken into account his situation but never did. Mr M wants Barclays to 
compensate him with £300 for the trouble and inconvenience this matter has caused, 
including the fact he had to borrow funds from his brother until he took the decision to move 
his bank account to another provider. 
Barclays explained it was sorry for the trouble Mr M had faced changing his address but 
explained that when asked to amend highly sensitive pieces of information such as an 
address, it must ensure the request had been received from the genuine customer. Barclays 
says it explained various options available to Mr M but as he hadnt registered for telephone 
banking or online banking and that his mobile number was also out of date, those options 
werent available to him.
Barclays acknowledged Mr M had written to them, but it hadnt been able to action the 
request without identification. The only other option was either for Mr M to send certified 
photographic identification by post or to visit a branch with identification but understood this 
might be difficult given the distance involved. Barclays reminded Mr M that he should always 
update his account address and telephone number going forward to avoid future problems 
like this occurring. Barclays didnt feel it made any errors it was simply following its process 
to protect its customers.
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Mr M hadnt updated his address or telephone number before he moved 
address, and this impacted how Barclays could support him. The investigator says given Mr 
M hadnt registered for online or telephone banking, Barclays were left with limited options to 
help him - in short he needed to visit a branch 90 miles away or to send by post certified 
photographic identification. 
The investigator says while understanding Mr Ms frustration, Barclays had acted reasonably 
in order to protect Mr Ms account from potential fraud. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr M to discover he wasnt 
able to amend his banking address details unless he provided Barclays with certified 
photographic identification or visit a local branch many miles away. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays could have done more to help Mr M 
when he informed them he had moved home. 
Both parties are fully aware of the background to this complaint, so I dont intend to repeat 
everything thats been said before, but I have considered everything thats been said and 
presented to this service  its just that I dont need to comment on each individual point here 
in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable. 
Mr Ms complaint centres around the fact Barclays knowing his vulnerability, failed to provide 
any reasonable alternatives to change his bank address details other than to take a long trip 
to a local branch with his full identification. 
Without trying to minimise the frustration and upset this matter would have undoubtedly 
caused Mr M here, I have to also take into account, even given Mr Ms vulnerabilities, 
Barclays would still need to protect its customers from fraud when its asked to make 
material changes to its customer address details. 
Here although Mr M wrote to Barclays, initially with partly incorrect account details, and 
subsequently telephoned them to arrange the address change, he wasnt able to pass its 
security checks. Unfortunately, Mr M wasnt signed up to online banking and didnt have 
access to a passcode for telephone banking as these details had also changed. I can see 
when Mr M wrote in May 2023 with his new address details Barclays wrote back with a 
series of options available to Mr M to action the change of address  but here as Mr M didnt 
have access online to his bank account the options became limited to either visiting the 
nearest branch with identification or to send certified copies of photographic identification. 
So while I can understand in Mr Ms circumstances both of these options would have been 
inconvenient, Barclays would have a responsibility to protect its customers and so I cant say 
requesting the identification it did was unreasonable  after all it had tried to offer other 
alternatives ways for Mr M to change his address, but unfortunately part of the problems 
resulted from the fact Mr M had moved to a more remote location  but thats not to say 
Barclays must alter its identification processes to allow for that. 
In this case Barclays unfortunately had little other options available to offer Mr M here and 
its not for me to say it must change its processes and procedures, only that it made 
reasonable attempts to accommodate Mr M here, and Im satisfied it did that. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman