DRN-3247861
The complaint
Mrs M complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) havent updated her 
name on her current account with them leading to significant problems for her.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final decision. 
In May 2020 Mrs M changed her name by deed poll and did so again in July 2020. In 
September 2020, she got married so her title changed from Miss to Mrs at this time. 
Following these changes Mrs M had many problems receiving debit cards with her correct 
name on them and has experienced significant frustration at Virgin not helping her to sort out 
these issues  contacting them on lots of occasions but without them resolving the matter. 
She said shes also tried to switch banks, but each effort is rejected. She said she felt Virgin 
were making her commit identity fraud, so she complained.
In January 2021 Virgin replied to Mrs Ms complaint. They said they understood Mrs M was 
unhappy at receiving multiple debit cards which had the incorrect names and titles, she was 
given the wrong advice about how to get this sorted and had contacted them on many 
occasions. They said they also understood she had issues closing and switching her 
account. They said its clear Mrs M had sent the relevant deed polls to show the change of 
name, but they didnt update their systems properly which was why the cards were sent with 
the wrong details. Virgin also said they could see Mrs M had many conversations over 
several months, and all agents except one said shed be able to resolve this over the phone 
with their complaints department. They said they accepted more could have been done to 
support Mrs M, will give feedback to the relevant departments, and paid her £100 
compensation for this. 
Unhappy with this Mrs M got in touch with us. And in May 2021 she sent us a copy of a letter 
shed sent to Virgin. In this letter, she said the issue has been ongoing for almost two years 
at this point. She said shed sent letters to head office, her current branch and her previous 
branch to make sure her change of name went through properly. She said she was given 
confirmation itd been changed. But her accounts still show differently on Virgins systems. 
She said Virgin had now sent 19 different debit cards, and recently had received three cards 
at the same time  all with the wrong name on. She said shed been arrested for identity 
theft and money laundering as a result of Virgins incompetence. She added her credit score 
has now dropped and has been registered on the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System 
(CIFAS). Mrs M has said this has had a severe effect on her health  Ive not detailed 
specifically what shes said out of respect for her privacy.
CIFAS is a system people can be registered on so when further credit is being applied for, 
lenders are aware and may carry out enhanced checks to ensure theyre lending to the 
correct person.
Mrs M has also complained Virgin sent her letters about an overdraft she says she never 
applied for.
While waiting for our Investigator to reach his outcome, Mrs M received multiple contacts 
from Virgin showing the wrong name  the latest of these was in July 2021.
One of our Investigators looked into things and upheld Mrs Ms complaint in August 2021. 
He said Virgin needed to ensure theyd updated everything correctly on their system, cancel 
an active card in a wrong name for Mrs M, and pay her an additional £100 compensation 
(this would make the compensation £200 total).
Virgin said they accepted this outcome, but Mrs M didnt. She said Virgin were ruining her 
life and provided further evidence  including letters addressed incorrectly in 
September 2021.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has raised a large number of issues, so Ive separated them out into different 
categories below in order to address them.
Virgin not updating Mrs Ms name correctly on their systems
Mrs Ms initial complaint stemmed from Virgin continuing to use either her old names or 
addressing her incorrectly when writing to her by using Mrs and her maiden name. Shes 
said this has had a significant impact on her  which Ill come back to in a later section.
Virgins response to Mrs Ms complaint was issued in January 2021. They accepted theyd 
not updated her name correctly on their systems as they should have done, said sorry, and 
awarded £100 compensation.
But, on reviewing whats gone on since, its clear Virgin didnt update things correctly as they 
said they had  either when she got in touch, or in their complaint response. Thats because, 
as Ive said above, Mrs M has continued to send us evidence of information thats been 
provided in the wrong name. 
Thats very disappointing and is worthy of compensation. Ill cover this at the end.
I did though want to say Virgin told us, on 13 October, that everything has now definitely 
been updated on their systems. Im acutely aware of course theyve previously said this. 
During the course of this complaint Mrs M has been very proactive in sending us updates 
when shes received something in the wrong name  the last of which was prior to 
13 October. So, it could be Virgin have now, finally, recorded Mrs Ms correct name. But, if 
shes got any evidence to suggest, after 13 October, theyve sent her something in an 
incorrect name she can let us know  and well consider that further. I can see Mrs M told us 
on 26 October theyd still not updated her name, but shes not said why or provided copies of 
what shes received to show this. So, I dont know the date of it  and whether it was before 
or after 13 October.
Debit cards in the wrong name
Mrs M has said shes still not got a card in the correct name. Virgin have said shes been 
sent correct cards  and theyve provided a screenshot from their internal system to show 
the history of cards ordered and in what names.This does show she was provided with multiple cards in the wrong name, after shed 
updated her details with them. Again, this is disappointing  and Ill come back to this at the 
end.
But this same screenshot also shows she was provided a card, in her correct name, in May 
2021. I have noted Mrs M has said, after May 2021, shes not got a card in her correct name.
This screenshot backs up what Mrs M has said about the number of cards shes had in the 
wrong name, so in that sense its an accurate record. With that in mind, I cant ignore what 
this same evidence says about a card that has been issued in Mrs Ms correct name.
On balance, without further information, I think its reasonable for me to say its more likely 
than not Mrs M has been issued a card in her correct name.
The impact of the wrong name being recorded on her debit cards
Mrs M has said shes been arrested for money laundering, is now listed as a high-risk 
tenant, and has been accused of benefit fraud twice.
I arranged for us to ask Mrs M about this. Clearly, if she was arrested as a direct result of 
Virgins actions thatd be very serious. But I also explained to Mrs M itd be difficult for me to 
consider the impact fully without evidence to back up each of these claims. Being arrested, 
listed as a high-risk tenant and being accused of benefit fraud are all quite serious issues. 
But Mrs M hasnt provided anything regarding these points. So, although I realise Mrs M may 
be disappointed regarding this, I cant factor them in when thinking about the impact on her.
Mrs M also said her health has significantly suffered as a result of Virgin getting the name on 
her debit card wrong. I arranged for us to ask her more about this, including whether she had 
any evidence from her doctors about the specific impact of Virgins actions on her health. 
Mrs M has provided some information, for which I thank her for as its clearly very sensitive 
information. Ill take that and everything else shes told us into account.
Mrs M has also talked about CIFAS records, and about her credit file  of which I have some 
information to try and answer her points here.
In relation to CIFAS Mrs M completed a Subject Access Request with them directly. This 
showed two entries  the first on 14 August 2019, and the second on 12 April 2021.
The August 2019 one has been recorded by Virgin. The notes Mrs M provided to us say the 
reason for this record being created by them is Undisclosed address with adverse credit 
data. This entry pre-dates Mrs M changing her name in May 2020  and doesnt appear to 
relate to the same issues which are the subject of this complaint. Because of that, it would 
appear this is a new issue  so, if Mrs M is unhappy with the recording of this entry, shed 
need to raise a new complaint with Virgin. 
The second CIFAS entry, recorded in April 2021, says its been recorded by CIFAS 
themselves, and the reason is listed as Protective registration necessary. The detailed 
explanation says this is usually recorded when someones personal details may have been 
compromised, and they want to protect themselves from further fraud. Usually, because of 
the reason for the entry being recorded, its recorded by the individual themselves. Its 
unclear to me if Mrs M does or doesnt recognise this entry. But, if she doesnt recognise it, 
she may wish to speak to CIFAS directly and discuss it further with them.
Overall then, regarding CIFAS entries, Ive not seen anything to show Virgin have recorded 
an entry against her as a result of the name change issues. So, I dont currently uphold this 
element of Mrs Ms complaint. In relation to Mrs Ms credit file, shes said it keeps dropping as a direct result of Virgins 
actions about not recording her name correctly. And shes provided evidence to show her 
credit score has dropped.
I also arranged for us to ask Virgin about this. They said they werent reporting any negative 
data to the credit reference agencies  and provided a screenshot to show this. Virgin also 
said Mrs M has one active County Court Judgment (CCJ) against her, and a further three 
inactive ones.
The evidence Mrs M has provided is a screenshot showing her credit score has dropped  
but it doesnt say why. Lots of factors can feed into a credit score and the reason why it 
might be the way it is  one of which will be CCJs. A CCJ is a judgement issued by a court 
saying the individual owes someone money and they must pay it.
Im aware thatd have a significant effect on someones credit score. We also asked Mrs M 
why she felt the name change not being completed correctly resulted in her credit score 
dropping. Mrs M didnt clarify that. 
Generally, I wouldnt expect a name change to have a significant effect on someones credit 
score like Mrs M is saying. So, taking everything into account, I cant reasonably say Virgin 
are the sole reason Mrs Ms credit score has been significantly reduced as a result of the 
name change issues set out in this complaint.
Account switching
During the course of the complaint, Mrs M has said shes been prevented from switching her 
account from Virgin to another current account provider.
I arranged for us to ask her for evidence of this, and also asked Virgin what their position 
was regarding this.
Mrs M provided a screenshot of a switching application showing one account had been 
moved to another provider, but her account with Virgin hadnt been.
Virgin said they werent aware of any reason why Mrs M wouldnt be able to switch.
The screenshot Mrs M has provided shows a red X against Virgins name  showing its not 
been switched. But, theres no information on what shes provided to say why her account 
with Virgin didnt switch.
So, I cant know for certain whats happened. Its also not clear if Mrs M is saying Virgin have 
actively done something to prevent her from switching her account, or as a direct result of 
the issues theyve had with updating her name thats caused the problem switching.
Ive not seen anything to show Virgin have actively tried to stop her switching accounts. But I 
think its at least possible Virgins errors in not fully updating Mrs Ms name on their systems 
have caused this. Mrs M will likely have applied to switch account using her correct name. 
So, if the account names didnt match, it could comfortably be a reason for the switch not 
happening. Again, Ill factor this in at the end.
Overdraft application
On 5 July 2021 Mrs M received a message (addressed incorrectly) about an overdraft. She 
says she never applied for an overdraft, so didnt understand why shed received this 
message.Virgin issued a new response to Mrs M on 21 December 2021 to say they didnt believe the 
application had been made by anyone other than Mrs M, as the same mobile number had 
been used.
Ive also seen, during the course of the complaint, Mrs M saying she did apply for this 
overdraft. In their response to the application, Virgin said it was turned down because the 
type of account Mrs M had didnt have an overdraft facility available on it.
Overall, I think its likely she did apply for the overdraft, so I dont currently plan to uphold this 
complaint.
Summary
I think its reasonable for me to say Virgin have badly let Mrs M down. Shes attempted on 
many occasions to get her name changed and Virgin have repeatedly failed to do so, despite 
assurances theyd resolved the issue.
I think this is especially poor, because Mrs M has told Virgin about her health issues, so they 
should have known this would have a bigger impact on her than it might on others. 
As Ive listed above, Mrs M has claimed the impact on her has been significant. But, in order 
to fully consider some of the points shes raised, Id require further information which to date 
hasnt been provided. If Mrs M provides further information in response to this provisional 
decision, Ill take that into account. 
Overall, for the excessive amount of debit cards shes had to get cancelled, the potential for 
the account switching to be affected, and the significant inconvenience shes been caused  
I think Virgin should pay Mrs M £600 in compensation based on the information currently 
provided by both parties.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M said she accepted it.
Virgin queried the amount to be paid as whether it was £600, or £700, as theyd already paid 
£100.
In advance of drafting this final decision, we clarified with Virgin it was £700 (an additional 
£600, plus the £100 already paid), which they accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my outcome, Ive seen no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions. Virgin have caused Mrs M significant amounts of inconvenience and 
need to pay a further £600 compensation  bringing the total to £700 taking account of the 
£100 already paid.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay 
Mrs M £700 total in compensation  they can deduct the £100 already paid from this figure.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman