DRN-3690191
The complaint
Mr S has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him £1,800 for a transaction he didnt 
make.
What happened
Mr S complained to Monzo Bank when he noticed a payment for £1,800 had been made 
from his account to someone hed not paid before. Hed not made this payment and wanted 
it refunded. After some delay Monzo Bank told Mr S they wouldnt be refunding him as their 
evidence showed the payment was authorised by use of a mobile device linked to Mr Ss 
account.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator revised the evidence 
shared by both Monzo Bank and Mr S. She felt overall the evidence showed it was most 
likely Mr S had made this payment himself.
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome. He didnt believe a payment of as much as £1,000 
could be authorised on his account and noted that the payment went to an account with only 
one name. He didnt understand how Monzo could have allowed this payment to be made.
Mr Ss complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ss case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo Bank and Mr S have told us.
Mr S has disputed one transaction of £1,800 made on 18 August 2020 early in the morning.
The key piece of evidence is that Mr S was using an iPhone at the time and this device was 
linked to Mr Ss Monzo Bank account. The evidence is clear that it was this device which set 
up the new payer (who Ill refer to as Y) and authorised the payment. This device continued 
to be linked to Mr Ss use of his Monzo Bank account for some time after this transaction. 
This includes the chats Mr S held with Monzo Bank to dispute this payment.
Mr S has confirmed theres no way somebody could have accessed his mobile device as it 
remained in his possession.
This payment for £1,800 was only possible as Mr S received two payments of £1,000 and 
£800 shortly before this from his employer. From reviewing Mr Ss bank statements, I can 
clearly see a history of Mr S receiving payments from this entity  firstly as individual 
payments and then from a business. I cant see how someone else would have known Mr S 
had sufficient funds and could only make the payment once those credits had been received.
Mr S has raised a couple of questions which Ive reviewed. I dont agree with him that theres 
a limit on his account that states only payments to a maximum of £999 can be made. 
Payments can be made when sufficient funds exist. 
Mr S has also questioned how Monzo Bank could allow a payment to be made to Y, which 
was set up with just one name. Ive seen the evidence of the transaction which includes 
setting up the payment to Y. Monzo Bank flagged this as risky as details about Y didnt 
match the details held by the receiving bank. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr S confirmed 
that he was prepared to proceed with setting up Y as payee and making the payment.
I think its more than likely  as the evidence shows  Mr S authorised the payment. He may 
well have then regretted making this payment or was even led to believe that he was getting 
something in return which he didnt receive. However overall I believe Mr S authorised this 
payment. On that basis I wont be asking Monzo Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman