DRN-2780659
The complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He wants GCC to repair the car and reimburse him the money hes 
already spent on repairs.
What happened
Mr C entered a hire purchase agreement in October 2019 to acquire a used car. At the time 
of acquisition, the car was around six years old and had been driven more than 90,000 
miles. Mr C says issues with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) means the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and because of this, GCC should pay to reimburse him for the repairs 
hes paid for. Mr C told us:
Within two weeks of acquiring the car, he contacted the dealer to report a fault with 
the DPF. When he took the car to an approved garage, he was told the fault lay with 
the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve and this was repaired instead;
in April 2020, the DPF light on the dashboard illuminated and the car went into limp 
mode; so he contacted GCC and was told to get a diagnostics test run;
the car was looked at by two different garages and a number of faults were 
highlighted  one of which was the DPF and another of which was the EGR valve;
he paid for another diagnostic test which confirmed that DPF was 80% blocked and 
was told it shouldnt have blocked to that extent in the relatively short time hed had 
the car;
GCC said hed had the car for more than six months and these two faults were a 
result of normal wear and tear  hed need further diagnostic evidence to show they 
were both present or developing when he bought the car;
he cant arrange further diagnostic testing as hes already paid to have these faults 
repaired; and he cant afford to spend any more money on the car. He wants GCC to 
pay for the remaining faults to be fixed and to reimburse him the £700 hes already 
spent on testing and a new DPF.
GCC rejected this complaint. It says Mr C contacted it about the DPF more than six months 
after he acquired the car. It says hed driven nearly 6,000 miles in that time and the cars 
current mileage in April 2020 was nearly 100,000 miles.
GCC looked at Mr Cs diagnostic report and acknowledged that the DPF was blocked. It 
explained the purpose of the DPF; a device designed to remove diesel particulate matter or 
soot from the exhaust gas of a diesel car and it said the car needed to be driven regularly, 
at a higher speed, for long distances so that the DPF could regenerate and clear out any 
build-up of soot. GCC said that if the car wasnt driven for long periods, or wasnt driven 
above a certain speed, the DPF wouldnt regenerate and would probably need replacing.
GCC concluded that based on Mr Cs usage of the car  small and frequent journeys  and 
the fact that the car had driven around 100,000 miles, the issue with the DPF was a result of 
normal wear and tear.
GCC said there was no fault with the EGR valve  it had been successfully repaired when 
Mr C first mentioned it. It said the report confirmed that the fault lay with the EGR Cooler 
Bypass Sensor  a completely separate component  and it would likely need replacing. But 
the fault was not deemed to be present or developing at the point of sale. It said that sensors 
are wear and tear items and the responsibility to replace them as required, lies with the cars 
registered keeper.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought it should be upheld and she 
asked GCC to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the DPF and to repair any other faults identified 
in further diagnostic testing. She also asked GCC to pay Mr C £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience he had experienced.
GCC disagreed. It said that Mr C hadnt raised these issues with it until more than six 
months after hed acquired the car. And because of this, he needed to provide evidence that 
the faults were present or developing at the point of sale.
My initial conclusions are set out in my provisional decision from April 2021. In my 
provisional decision I said I didnt think this complaint should be upheld and I explained my 
reasons for this as follows:
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. GCC is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  GCC in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
Here, the car wasn't new being around six years old and with a mileage of just under 
100,000 miles. I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
expect that over time there would be issues with maintenance and repair since components 
of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr C was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr C has experienced problems with the DPF on his 
car. That has been well evidenced by images of the diagnostic tests undertaken and the job 
card and receipt confirming the replacement of the DPF in May 2019. But, whilst I accept 
that there have been issues with the DPF, GCC would only be responsible for putting things 
right if the DPF issues caused the car to be of unsatisfactory quality.
Although Mr C reported a fault early on with the DPF, it appears that this wasnt the problem 
with the car at this time; and the EGR was faulted and repaired instead. The first time there 
appears to have been an issue with the DPF was when Mr C refers to it in a telephone call to 
GCC on 27 April 2019. And although theres several telephone conversations between Mr C and GCC in the months prior to this, none of these seem to make any reference to the DPF 
or problems with it.
Furthermore, Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was a fault with the DPF itself. I say this 
because research suggests that the DPF on this type of car should last around 100,000 
miles, and I have to acknowledge that Mr Cs car had already covered around 98,000 miles 
at the point that he says the DPF failed and the car went in to limp mode. So, it doesnt 
seem to me that the lifespan of this component was significantly less than I wouldve 
expected it to be.
Im also persuaded that had there been a fault with the DPF at the point of sale, it wouldve 
manifested itself far sooner and Mr C simply wouldnt have been able to drive nearly 6,000 
miles in the time between acquiring the car and it going into limp mode more than six months 
later. If the fault was present at the point of sale, as Mr C suggests, I would have expected it 
to have shown up far sooner.
For me to agree to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that there was a fault 
with the DPF and that it was present or developing at the point of sale. And at the moment, I 
simply have no evidence to say that.
And I asked each party to let me have any further information that theyd like me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have confirmed safe receipt of my provisional decision, and neither party has 
provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman