DRN-4387642
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very, irresponsibly 
provided him with a store card account, and credit limit increases (CLIs), that he couldnt 
afford.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr H obtained a store card account with Shop Direct. The credit limit was 
set at £750 and this increased to £1,150 in March 2021 and £1,650 in August 2021. 
In 2023, Mr H complained to Shop Direct that it had lent to him irresponsibly, causing him 
financial difficulty and poor mental health. 
Shop Direct didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks which 
showed Mr H could afford the credit it had provided him with.
Unhappy with Shop Directs response, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. They believed, in essence, that 
Shop Direct should have carried out more checks regarding the first CLI but that, ultimately, 
none of the lending decisions it had made on the account were unfair. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He mentioned having multiple lines of 
credit open by the time of the first CLI, making repayment of the store card account 
unsustainable for him. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Shop Direct was required to complete proportionate affordability checks prior to advancing 
credit to Mr H. Whats considered proportionate will vary in each case as it is unique to each 
lending decision. In deciding how thorough a check should be, Shop Direct needed to 
consider things such as (but not limited to) the amount of credit being advanced, the type of 
credit, the size and frequency of the repayments, the cost of the borrowing and Mr Hs 
personal circumstances.
I can see that Shop Direct did obtain some information about Mr Hs financial circumstances 
at the start of the account in 2020 and regarding the second CLI to £1,650 in August 2021. 
For example, the checks carried out by the credit reference agencies (CRAs) Shop Direct 
instructed showed no signs of adverse information on his credit file such as arrears, defaults, 
or County Court judgments (CCJs). And, by the time of the second CLI, Shop Direct had 
gathered almost a years data on how Mr H had been managing his existing account up to 
that point. The signs were that Mr H was coping financially, including with his existing levels 
of credit. 
Given the information Shop Direct held, I dont see reasonable cause for it to think the 
lending it was providing was unaffordable for Mr H on those occasions.
Shop Direct carried out checks in relation to the first CLI too. Although by that time Mr Hs 
external debt had increased, as he points out. He had just under £13,000 to pay in loans and 
owed around £1,900 on his credit cards. 
I think it would have been reasonable for Shop Direct to investigate Mr Hs financial situation 
further in the circumstances to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay the revised credit 
amount. But that, in itself, doesnt mean that Shop Direct should compensate Mr H for the 
additional lending. For that to happen Id also need to be satisfied that the lending in March 
2021 was unaffordable for Mr H given his circumstances at that time.
To help me determine on balance what those circumstances were, Ive reviewed Mr Hs 
bank statements in the months prior to Shop Directs decision to apply the first CLI. They 
suggest to me that the loan repayment amounts obtained by the CRA at the start of the 
account were fairly accurate. And that relatively low rent payments and credit card 
repayments meant Mr H had the available disposable income to be able to afford the 
additional credit Shop Direct was offering. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr H has told us, including that he regularly used his 
overdraft facility and other high interest credit. While these can sometimes indicate financial 
difficulty, I havent seen enough on this occasion to support that he wasnt largely managing 
his existing lines of credit to the extent that he wouldnt be able to cope with the first CLI. I 
believe thats reflected in Mr Hs levels of external debt falling by the time the second CLI 
was applied.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think it was unfair of Shop Direct to have lent to Mr H in 
2020 and 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman