DRN-3910216
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money removed access to his 
online facility which meant he was unable to manage his credit card. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with Virgin Money and it contacted him in March 2020 to advise the 
account had been identified as being in persistent debt. Virgin Moneys correspondence 
asked Mr M to consider increasing the payments he was making towards the account and 
said it may suspend spending in the future. From March 2020 Mr M increased his monthly 
payment to £83. The payment continued to be collected by Virgin Money. 
In October 2020 Mr M spoke with an agent at Virgin Money after his credit card stopped 
working. The agent advised new credit card spending had been withdrawn due to the 
persistent debt position of the account. The agent advised that Mr M would be unable to use 
his card again as new spending had been permanently suspended. 
Mr M has told us he spoke with another agent at Virgin Money in December 2020 and was 
told to destroy his credit card. Virgin Money says it has no trace of this call or Mr M being 
told to destroy his credit card. 
In December 2020 Virgin Money contacted Mr M to advise it was switching off its online 
facility and had replaced it with an app. The change came into effect at the end of January 
2021. Mr Ms account had previously been set to so he received statements online. When 
the online facility was removed, Mr M wasnt sent statements by Virgin Money. 
Towards the end of 2021 Mr M contacted Virgin Money and explained hed been unable to 
access his online facility to manage his account. Mr M raised a complaint. In February 2022 
Mr M chased Virgin Money for a response and a case handler agreed to send him copies of 
his credit card statements in the post. The statements were received around two weeks later 
and Mr M went on to repay the outstanding balance in March 2022. 
Mr Ms explained he didnt have access to his credit card after it was destroyed. As a result, 
it wasnt possible for him to register for the app to manage his account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They asked Virgin Money to 
provide a call recording for the October 2020 conversation Mr M had with its agent. They 
also asked for a copy of its contact notes but were unable to see a record of a call in 
December 2020 between Mr M and Virgin Money and didnt find evidence to show hed been 
asked to destroy the credit card. 
The investigator ultimately asked Virgin Money to pay Mr M £100 for the inconvenience 
caused by the delay in issuing paper statements after he raised a complaint. Virgin Money 
accepted but Mr M disagreed and asked to appeal. Mr M reiterated that hed been told to 
destroy his credit card by an agent at Virgin Money which meant he was then unable to 
access its new app. Mr M said that without access to his online facility, paper statements or 
the app hed been left unable to manage the credit card. As Mr M asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr Ms told us the removal of the online facility meant he was unable to manage his account 
for an extended period. Ive looked at Virgin Moneys records and can see Mr M did use its 
online banking to access his account up to November 2020. But around a month after he last 
logged in, Virgin Money contacted him to advise it was introducing an app to monitor 
accounts. And the online banking facility was removed at the end of January 2021. 
I understand Mr M feels it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to replace the online facility 
with an app. But businesses are free to decide how they operate, including how customers 
access account information. And Virgin Moneys explained it took the decision to replace its 
online banking facility at the beginning of 2021. I appreciate there were difficulties because 
Mr M no longer had access to the credit card. But overall Im satisfied the decision was one 
Virgin Money was entitled to take. I havent been persuaded Virgin Money acted unfairly by 
introducing an app to manage accounts. 
The online facility was switched off on 31 January 2021 and Virgin Money acknowledged 
Mr Ms complaint in December 2021. Mr Ms told us he was unable to manage his account 
during this time. Whilst I agree Mr M lost access to the online banking facility, I think its 
reasonable to say he couldve contacted Virgin Money about the issue and requested paper 
statements during this period. I acknowledge that wouldve involved waiting to speak with a 
Virgin Money, but if Mr M was concerned about his account and payments during this time 
he had that option. I note that when Mr M spoke with Virgin Money in October 2020 he 
mentioned a transaction had been declined around 10 minutes before he called. So whilst I 
dont doubt there were delays in answering calls at busy times, it does appear to me that 
Virgin Money couldve been contacted over the phone. 
Mr Ms told us that in December 2020 he spoke with an agent and was told to destroy his 
credit card as the account was blocked for new spending. But Virgin Moneys provided a 
copy of its contact notes and searched its systems for a copy of a call with Mr M at this time 
without success. Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties 
involved Ill base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most 
likely to have occurred based on all the available information. 
Mr Ms given a clear recollection of a call with Virgin Money in December 2021 and that he 
was asked to destroy the credit card. But the systems evidence on file doesnt show a call of 
that nature. Listening to the call Mr M had in October 2021, I can hear he was advised the 
account had been permanently suspended and no new spending would be possible from 
that point. And Virgin Moneys advised it doesnt ask customers to destroy credit cards in the 
circumstances Mr M has raised. Taking all the available information into account, I think its most likely that Mr M was told his 
account was closed to new spending. But, on balance, I havent been persuaded Mr M was 
specifically told to destroy the credit card itself. 
Mr M raised concerns about the lack of account access with Virgin Money in December 2021 
and it raised a complaint. Virgin Money wrote to Mr M on 31 January 2022 to confirm he had 
the right to refer the complaint to this service. The final response was never issued and Mr 
Ms case was referred to us. I agree with Mr M that it took too long for Virgin Money to send 
him statements so he could review his account activity and decide how to proceed. The 
statements were issued in February 2022, but I agree they couldve been sent sooner and 
that this caused some inconvenience for Mr M.  
Virgin Money has agreed to pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delay in issuing statements. Ive read and considered everything Mr M has sent us and 
said when bringing his complaint. I understand he found the process of obtaining statements 
and the service provided to be poor. In my view the £100 settlement Virgin Moneys agreed 
to pay fairly recognises the level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a reasonable 
way to resolve his complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded to 
increase the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman