DRN-3423092
The complaint
Miss S complains about AIB Group (UK) plcs treatment of her following her requests for 
payment deferrals on her mortgage, and the information it put on her credit file.
Miss Ss husband is representing her in this complaint, but Ill refer to Miss S in this decision.
What happened
Miss S and her ex-partner took out this mortgage with AIB in 2008. They later split up, 
although Miss Ss ex-partners name remains on the mortgage.
In March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to mortgage lenders 
in light of the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic. It said lenders should offer a payment 
deferral to borrowers if they asked for one, unless it was clearly not in the borrowers best 
interests to do so.  
Miss S asked for a payment deferral in late March 2020. AIB put it in place for three months, 
and in June 2020 Miss S asked for this to be extended. 
AIB contacted Miss Ss ex-partner about this request. It also tried to collect the mortgage 
payment for June, although this was returned unpaid. In July 2020, it put the payment 
deferral in place for another three months, backdated to June 2020.  
Miss S complained. She was unhappy that AIB had contacted her ex-partner, as well as the 
fact that he was still named on the mortgage. She also complained about the trouble she 
had had in extending the payment deferral. 
On 29 July 2020, AIB sent Miss S a final response letter about this complaint. It accepted it 
shouldnt have contacted her ex-partner and offered £250 compensation. It also apologised 
for the delay in putting the payment deferral in place, and told Miss S what it needed in order 
to consider transferring the mortgage into her sole name. 
Miss S wasnt happy with that and wrote back to AIB. AIB said it had nothing to add and 
referred Miss S back to the six months it had given in its July letter for her to refer her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
On 11 Feb 2021, Miss S referred her complaint to us. She also complained that AIB had 
wrongly recorded a missed mortgage payment for June 2020 on her credit file.
On 31 March 2021, AIB issued another final response letter. It referred back to its previous 
final response but didnt add anything new in respect of the complaint points in its earlier 
letter. It apologised for the missed payment it had put on Miss Ss credit file and offered £250 
compensation. It said it had corrected her credit file on 23 March 2021.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He told Miss S that we cant consider the 
complaint which AIB responded to in its July 2020 final response, because she hadnt 
referred the complaint to us within six months and AIB hadnt consented to us considering 
that complaint. 
Miss S appeared to accept that, so the Investigator went on to consider Miss Ss complaint 
about what AIB had put on her credit file. He concluded that AIB had got things wrong but it 
had done enough to put things right by correcting the credit file and offering a reasonable 
amount of compensation. 
Miss S didnt accept that and asked for a review. She considered AIB to have been negligent 
and that it had taken far too long to amend her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our Investigator. 
First of all, to be clear, I find that Miss Ss complaint about the matters AIB responded to in 
its July 2020 final response letter was referred to the Financial Ombudsman too late. It was 
referred to us more than six months after the date on the letter, AIB hasnt consented to our 
considering the complaint, and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay 
and which might lead me to set aside the usual time limit. This means we cant consider this 
part of Miss Ss complaint.
I can consider Miss Ss complaint about what AIB put on her credit file in respect of her June 
2020 mortgage payment. Theres no dispute that AIB was wrong to have recorded a missed 
payment for that month, given the payment deferral that was being arranged and that was 
backdated to cover June 2020.
AIBs records and the credit report Miss S has provided satisfy me that the missed payment 
has been corrected on her credit file. AIB has also apologised to Miss S and offered her 
£250 by way of compensation. 
Miss S feels strongly that this doesnt go far enough. The wrong information was on her 
records for far longer than it should have been, but I find that AIB corrected things a few 
weeks after Miss S alerted it to the problem. And, importantly, Miss S hasnt said the 
erroneous missed payment record had a wider impact on her finances  and I think it 
unlikely to have done so given that there had been some earlier mortgage arrears. 
I recognise that Miss S has found this matter upsetting and she has been put to some 
avoidable inconvenience. But its not for me to fine or punish financial businesses and, in all 
the circumstances, I find that AIB has taken reasonable steps to put things right. I consider 
£250 is a fair award. I leave it to Miss S to decide whether, on reflection, she now wishes to 
accept that.
My final decision
My final decision is that AIB Group (UK) plc has made a fair offer to pay Miss S £250 
compensation, so if Miss S accepts this decision it should make that payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 Janet Millington
Ombudsman