DRN-4224582
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) did after he
contacted it and told it about renovation work he was carrying out at his property.
What happened
Mr H has home insurance with Lloyds which includes legal expenses insurance
(underwritten by a different insurer). In May 2022 he called Lloyds and said he was having
major renovation work carried out at his property including structural alterations and an
extension (at a cost of around £200,000). A condition was added to his policy requiring him
to inform Lloyds once the work was completed.
Mr H called back ten days later and asked whether his policy would cover him if he had any
problems with his builders. Lloyds confirmed it would. In August 2022 Mr H told Lloyds about
a potential subsidence claim as cracking had become visible at his property. That was
declined by Lloyds. It said the claim related to excavation work at the property which was
excluded by his policy.
By December 2022 building work was incomplete and had stopped. Remedial work was
required to the work that had been done. Mr H tried to claim on his legal expenses insurance
for assistance in pursuing a claim against the builder. The insurer of that policy turned down
the claim. It said the policy excluded claims relating to renovations and extensions. Mr H
claimed on his buildings policy for losses and damage caused to his property by the builder.
That was declined for similar reasons. Mr H said that contradicted what hed been told when
he spoke to Lloyds in May. Lloyds accepted this and offered to pay Mr H £200.
Our investigator agreed claims arising from renovation work were excluded under both the
buildings and legal expenses insurance sections of Mr Hs policy. And Lloyds had wrongly
told Mr H hed be covered when he spoke to it in May 2022. He thought Mr H was entitled to
rely on what it had said. And he thought it likely if given correct information Mr H would have
taken out a separate renovation insurance policy. He said Lloyds should now engage a
specialist broker to source a suitable policy and assess Mr Hs claim under it. Or it could
make good itself the poor workmanship and damage caused by Mr Hs builder.
Mr H agreed. Lloyds didnt. In summary it said:
It was satisfied the subsidence claim had been correctly declined (and the value would in
any case be below the policy excess). It thought it was fair to rely on the policy
exclusions it had for claims relating to structural alterations. It also drew attention to the
lack of coverage for the claim more generally in its policy and other exclusions within it
which it thought were relevant here.
There were remedies set out in law for contract disputes and it wasnt reasonable to
expect Lloyds as Mr Hs home insurer to cover claims relating to this. It drew attention to
the scale of the project (which involved an application for planning permission and an
architect) and thought dispute resolution mechanisms should be set out in the agreement
between Mr H and his builder. So that was the correct route for resolving these matters.
It had checked renovation insurance policies available on the market which it didnt
believe would provide cover for the claim Mr H had made and didnt offer retrospective
cover either.
As a result, while it accepted it had provided Mr H with incorrect information, it didnt feel
this had prejudiced his position. However, it acknowledged he had been inconvenienced
by what it got wrong and said it would increase its proposed compensation by £500.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy. This contains a general
exclusion which says it wont pay claims for damage caused by renovations, repairs or
maintenance work or for bad workmanship and design.
The legal expenses section of the policy does cover contract disputes but it excludes
anything relating to the building, converting, extending, altering, renovating or demolishing
of your home (this does not apply to common home improvements, such as installing double
glazing or replacement kitchens.
The subsidence section of the policy excludes damage caused directly by you, or someone
appointed by you, knocking down buildings or making structural changes or repairs. This
applies to any work that might affect the foundation of your buildings.
I think Lloyds are right to say the claims Mr H has made wouldnt be covered under the
terms and conditions of this policy. I dont think Mr H is in fact disputing that. Nor does he
appear to be pursuing issues relating to the subsidence claim. Hes told us that following his
claim to Lloyds his builder took action to fix the problem and I never thought any more about
this. So this isnt something I need to consider further in this decision because theres no
outstanding issue here.
What I do need to consider is the phone call Mr H had with Lloyds in May 2022. Lloyds has
accepted it gave him the wrong information during that call. But I think its worth detailing
some of what was said. Mr H explained he was calling because, from his research, he was
aware some home insurance policies wouldnt cover, for example, structural problems
caused by a builder. He wanted to make sure this insurance would cover him if something
went wrong; for example if the builder did something badly and walked away.
The adviser said Mr H was doing the right thing in checking and said (a number of times)
that he couldnt see anything to say he wouldnt be covered by this policy. At the end of the
call he said as far as Im concerned youre good to go.
Lloyds says if Mr H had read the terms and conditions of his policy hed have understood
what it did and didnt cover. But I dont think thats a reasonable position to take in this case.
Mr H had called Lloyds to check on coverage and would reasonably have thought it was in a
position to provide him with clear information about a policy it provided. He was given a
categoric assurance (youre good to go). There was no caveat given by the adviser and
there was no suggestion Mr H needed to check this himself. I think he was entitled to rely on
the clear and explicit information he was given by Lloyds during this phone call.
But what he was told was wrong. The policy excluded claims relating to renovation work. So
Ive gone on to think about whats most likely to have happened if Mr H had been given
correct information (as he should have been) during this call. The reason for his call was
because he was concerned about policy coverage. And hed already been doing research
into this. Mr H has told us that he would 100% have taken out insurance to cover him ifcorrectly advised and the reason for this was his past experiences. He said Id always aim
to ensure that Im fully covered for all eventualities whether its car, life or home insurance.
if it can go wrong it will for me.
I appreciate Mr H is making those comments with the benefit of hindsight. But given his clear
interest in coverage and the size of (and risks associated with) his project I think it is most
likely that if given correct information by Lloyds he would have investigated and taken out
alternative cover.
Whats more difficult to know is what policy hed have taken out and what this would have
covered. Renovations insurance policies are widely available but Mr H hasnt been able to
find one that would have covered him for everything that happened in this case. He told us
Im really doubting (other than consumer contract legal coverage) insurance for whats
happened eg poor workmanship and / or builder walking off with unfinished work is available
to be honest.
Lloyds has also checked renovations policies and hasnt been able to find ones that would
cover this either. That matches my understanding of the position. And while Mr H has
subsequently commented on other action he would have taken if given the correct
information I am mindful of the fact hes making those points with the knowledge of what
actually happened which isnt something that would have been available to him when he
spoke to Lloyds. On that basis I dont think I could safely conclude that, if given correct
information by Lloyds, hed have had cover in place for a damages claim relating to poor
workmanship or the builder walking off the job.
Mr H has commented on further actions he would have taken to check on the insurance his
builder had in place if given correct information by Lloyds. But given the nature and extent of
the works he was having done I think thats something he could reasonably have been
expected to do in any case. And while the assurances Lloyds gave Mr H would have led him
to believe his home insurance policy would apply as normal while renovation work was being
carried out, I dont think he could have thought it would provide cover outside of its scope
and act as a substitute for insurance his builder should have had. So I dont think Lloyds is
responsible for issues in relation to this
But I do think its likely he would have taken out a standard renovations policy and would
have included legal expenses insurance as part of that (given his existing policy with Lloyds
included that cover). And, as he was happy to go ahead with the works on the basis of the
limits and excesses his existing home insurance contained, I think it likely hed have taken
out a renovations policy on a similar basis. I appreciate that policy wouldnt have offered
retrospective cover but if correctly informed Mr H would have had this cover in place prior to
any problems with his builder taking place.
Our investigator suggested one option was for Lloyds to make good itself the poor
workmanship and damage caused by Mr Hs builder. However, for the reasons Ive
explained Im not persuaded poor workmanship would have been covered under any
alternative policy Mr H would have taken out (though damage to his existing property might
be). So Im not going to require Lloyds to do that.
But to ensure (as far as possible) Mr H is in the same position he would have been but for
what Lloyds got wrong I think it will need to approach a suitable broker to identify a home
renovations policy that includes legal expenses cover with limits and excesses broadly in line
with his home insurance policy. And it will then need to arrange for a suitable professional
(such as a claims handler or loss adjuster) to consider the claims Mr H has made under the
terms of those policies and fund any claims the professional determines should be paid. If
there are sums due to Mr H, Lloyds will be entitled to deduct the policy premium that would
have been paid for this policy from them. For clarity that assessment will need to includeconsidering the legal expenses claim Mr H has made against the relevant section of the
policy.
Lloyds has commented on the potential contractual remedies available to Mr H. But the
issue here is that Lloyds got something wrong when it spoke to him in May 2022. And I think
hed have acted differently and taken out a renovations insurance policy if it had given him
the right information. It may be that such a policy would require him to exhaust contractual
remedies (potentially with the assistance of legal expenses insurance) prior to covering any
damages claim. But thats something the professional who considers the matter will need to
consider. It doesnt make a difference to my thinking about the outcome of this complaint.
Ive also considered what the right amount is to recognise the distress and inconvenience
Mr H was caused by what Lloyds got wrong. It initially offered £200 but offered to increase
that by a further £500 in its most recent response to us. In considering what the right amount
should be Ive taken into account that this has clearly been an extremely difficult time for
Mr H given the significant issues at his property and his ongoing dispute with the builder over
a number of months.
Lloyds isnt responsible for that but I think the issues over what insurance cover he had in
place will have had more impact given that context. Ive taken into account that issues
relating to insurance cover will be addressed by what Ill be directing Lloyds to do but I do
think hes been caused a reasonably significant amount of distress and inconvenience by
what Lloyds got wrong. But I think the total compensation its now offered (of £700) is a
reasonable way of recognising the impact on him of that.
Putting things right
Lloyds will need to:
Instruct a broker with appropriate experience to identify a suitable renovations policy 
for Mr Hs circumstances in May 2022 that includes legal expenses cover with limits 
and excesses broadly in line with his existing home insurance policy;
Arrange for a suitably qualified professional to consider the claims Mr H has made 
(including his legal expenses claim) against the terms and conditions of that policy;
Fund any claims the professional determines should be paid under its terms (less the 
premium Mr H would have paid for this policy);
Pay Mr H a total of £700 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H didnt agree with what Id said and provided detailed comments in a number of emails 
and on an annotated version of my provisional decision. In summary:
Mr H went into detail about the impact this matter had had on him and the significant 
difficulties it was likely to cause going forward. He believed hed picked a good builder 
and had checked with Lloyds prior to going ahead with his project. So he didnt think hed 
done anything wrong.He reiterated what he felt Lloyds had got wrong when he discussed matters with it. He 
believed that, based on what it said, hed be covered by Lloyds if the builders insurance 
didnt cover him.
He said if hed been properly informed by Lloyds hed have taken out a thorough 
renovations policy and also warranty insurance which he believed would have covered 
him for poor workmanship. 
A builder hed spoken to had confirmed that such policies were available and he 
provided examples of ones he thought would have provided cover.
He also said if properly informed by Lloyds further checks were likely to have been 
carried out on the builder he did engage as that would have been a condition of cover for 
additional insurance. And even if he hadnt been able to find an alternative policy he 
might have acted differently in relation to the project itself  for example breaking the 
work up or finding a different builder.
He thought Lloyds should be responsible for paying for the remedial works that were 
required at his property. He didnt agree the £700 it had offered was appropriate given 
the impact there had been on him and his family as a result of what it got wrong.
Lloyds didnt agree either. In summary it said:
It had looked at renovations policies it thought would have been available to Mr H at the 
time and hadnt been able to find one that covered faulty design or poor workmanship 
(and it provided an example of the exclusion they contained).
It also provided details of legal expenses insurance policies which said for cover to be 
provided there would need to be a written contract with the builder and evidence the 
builder held liability insurance of £1,000,000. It didnt think that was the case here. 
So it argued Mr H wouldnt have met the eligibility criteria for any policies he did take out 
in May 2022 and so didnt think the issues he was facing were as a result of what it got 
wrong. And it didnt feel it was fair to ask it to now source an appropriate policy 
retrospectively. It said if Mr H could identify a policy that would have covered him it would 
be happy to carry out the actions set out in the provisional decision in relation to that.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive read and considered all of the comments that both Mr H and Lloyds have made. 
However, Ive only addressed in this decision those that I consider are material to the 
outcome Im reaching on the complaint. 
I dont think theres any dispute the issues Mr H has had with his builder have, and continue 
to have, a significant impact on him and his family. I was sorry to learn about that and of the 
very difficult situation hes now in. And theres also no dispute Lloyds got things wrong when 
it spoke to him about the renovation work he was having done. The issue remains whether, if 
hed been given correct information, Mr H would have insurance in place that would cover 
the work thats now required at his property and the claim hes pursuing against the builder. 
Mr H believes if correctly informed hed have sourced and obtained a policy that would have 
covered him for faulty workmanship. And hes provided examples of warranty policies he 
thinks would have done so. However, Ive reviewed those policies and Im not persuaded 
that is the case. Although there is only limited information available, my understanding is 
these warranty policies would primarily provide cover for latent defects (a problem that isnt 
apparent during the build process and is only discovered later). But in this case the problems 
with Mr Hs property became apparent during the build. 
In any event at the point Lloyds spoke to Mr H he couldnt have known about the problems 
hed subsequently encounter with his builder. So knowledge of that isnt something that 
could have informed his decision making at the time. Given that, and the fact it remains 
unclear whether he could have obtained cover for all that subsequently happened, I cant 
conclude Mr H didnt have insurance in place for faulty workmanship because of what Lloyds 
got wrong. 
Mr H has commented on other actions he might have been taken if hed been given the 
correct information such as carrying out further checks on the builder (or using a different 
builder). But I dont think thats something Lloyds can be held responsible for. As I said in my 
provisional decision I accept the assurances it gave would have led him to believe his home 
insurance would operate as normal while renovation work was being carried out. But during 
his call with Lloyds the adviser did reference the fact the builder should have their own 
insurance. And I dont think Mr H could reasonably have thought his policy with Lloyds would 
provide cover outside of its scope or substitute for checks any consumer might reasonably 
be expected to carry out when having significant building work carried out. 
On that basis I dont agree Lloyds needs to pay for the remedial works required to Mr Hs 
property. But I do think, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, that if given the 
correct information he is likely to have sourced and taken out a standard renovations policy 
and would have included legal expenses insurance as part of that (given his existing policy 
with Lloyds included that cover).
Lloyds doesnt think any policy he did take out would have provided cover because Mr H 
wouldnt have met the eligibility criteria. Its highlighted in particular that he didnt have a 
written contract with his builder or information on the insurance cover the builder held 
(though Mr H has told us the builder did have insurance). 
However, I said in my provisional decision that Lloyds should arrange for a suitable 
professional (such as a claims handler or loss adjuster) to consider any claims Mr H made 
under the terms of the policies that would have been in place and fund any claims the 
professional determines should be paid. So the question of whether cover should be 
provided for any claims Mr H wants to make is one that should be decided by that person. In doing so Id expect them to take into account not only the policy terms but whats fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. If there is an issue over Mr Hs eligibility for cover that 
would involve considering any arguments Mr H has to as to why he wasnt able to meet 
those terms and whether its fair to apply them in this case. 
And if the identified policy has specific terms Mr H wasn't aware of because of what Lloyds 
got wrong (in other words, but for that failing, he'd have taken out the policy and known 
about them) I dont think it would be fair to apply those. On the other hand, if there are more 
general requirements that it would be reasonable to expect any customer embarking on a 
renovation project to be aware of, the position might be different. But these are matters to be 
considered by the professional Lloyds will need to appoint. 
Finally, as I said at the outset I do understand the impact all of this has had on Mr H. Ive 
taken that into account when considering fair compensation. But Im also mindful of the fact 
that many of these issues result from the actions of his builder. I do accept that will have 
been exacerbated by what Lloyds got wrong but I think the £700 it has offered is a 
reasonable way of recognising the distress and inconvenience Mr H was caused by that. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I dont think there are grounds to change the directions I set 
out in my provisional decision. So Lloyds will need to: 
Instruct a broker with appropriate experience to identify a suitable renovations policy 
for Mr Hs circumstances in May 2022 that includes legal expenses cover with limits 
and excesses broadly in line with his existing home insurance policy;
Arrange for a suitably qualified professional to consider the claims Mr H has made 
(including his legal expenses claim) against the terms and conditions of that policy;
Fund any claims the professional determines should be paid under its terms (less the 
premium Mr H would have paid for this policy);
Pay Mr H a total of £700 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited will need to 
put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman