DRN-4321322
The complaint
Mr B complains about that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly restricted and then closed his 
account, and made it look like he was in a great deal of debt. He would like an apology and 
an explanation.
What happened
In January 2023, Barclays blocked Mr Bs account with them. When he checked his balance, 
he saw he was very significantly overdrawn, making him appear in considerable debt to the 
bank. He contacted Barclays, who told him the account was under review.
Several days after Barclays closed with Mr Bs account with immediate effect but allowed 
him to withdraw the funds remaining in his account when it was blocked.
Mr B raised a complaint, asking why Barclays had put his account in so much debt. He said 
this had caused significant problems with his mental health. Barclays responded to say they 
were sometimes required to withhold transactions and block accounts. They confirmed Mr B 
was not in any debt to them, and they did not think theyd done anything wrong by restricting 
the account. But they accepted he had been given some incorrect information  and offered 
him £50 in compensation.
Unhappy with this answer Mr B referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They couldnt see Barclays were justified in closing 
Mr Bs account without notice. They suggested paying Mr B an additional £100 in 
compensation for the inconvenience.
Barclays accepted this, but Mr B disagreed. He said he didnt want to know why the account 
was closed, and instead wanted to know why he had been treated the way he had, and he 
had been told conflicting stories. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right to say that Barclays have strict legal and regulatory requirements to meet when 
providing accounts to people. They are required to carry out ongoing monitoring of account 
activity  and this can sometimes mean they need to restrict or close off accounts. There is 
provision for this in the terms of the account. 
Having reviewed the information supplied by Barclays Im satisfied that they were acting in 
line with their requirements and the account terms when they blocked Mr Bs account. But 
the manner in which they did it, by taking the account very significantly overdrawn, will have 
caused a degree of alarm to Mr B. I can understand it would be distressing to suddenly 
appear to be in great deal of debt to your bank, and I appreciate what hes told us about how 
this affected him.
Barclays are also allowed to close their customers accounts  so long as they do so in line 
with the terms of the account. In Mr Bs case the terms say they have to give two months 
notice, which is in line with the relevant regulations. This is to allow time to open an account 
elsewhere in reasonable time. But Mr B was denied this opportunity.
But here they closed Mr Bs account shortly after the block was applied  so in effect his 
account was closed with no notice. The terms only allow for this in limited circumstances. 
Having reviewed wat happened with Mr Bs account and Barclays concerns, Im not satisfied 
that these circumstances were met. Barclays should have provided Mr B with the notice 
period set out in the terms, and it was unfair for them not to do so.
I can see that the funds in the account were returned to Mr B in good time, and he wasnt let 
without them for an unreasonable period.
Theres no obligation on Barclays to tell Mr B why theyre reviewing and closing his account 
 and theyve declined to offer up any further details. This isnt unreasonable. Mr B has said 
he doesnt want to know why the account was closed, just why he was treated this way by 
Barclays. But I consider these to be related points. Quite often when an account is under 
review theres not a great deal of information that the customer can be told. I see this as why 
Mr B was likely given contradictory information about the block and couldnt be told how long 
the entire process would take. I appreciate this will have been frustrating for Mr B, but I dont 
think Barclays were unreasonable in declining to discuss the block or review process.
Overall, I see that while it was fair for Barclays to block and close Mr Bs accounts, the 
manner in which they did so was unfair to him and will have caused him unnecessary 
distress. On that basis Im satisfied its appropriate for them to pay him compensation. 
Having reviewed everything, and considered the impact on Mr B, I think £150 in total is a fair 
amount. Barclays have already pai £50, so this will be an additional £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr B £150 compensation in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman