DRN-3699641
The complaint
Mrs S complains that NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She says the lending was 
unaffordable for her.
What happened
Mrs S took out a credit card with NewDay, branded as Aqua, in April 2018. It had an initial 
credit limit of £450.
 
In September 2018, Mrs S took out another credit card with NewDay, branded as Amazon. 
This had an initial credit limit of £600, making her total credit over both cards £1,150.
 
The Aqua card had a further credit limit increase in December 2018 and the Amazon card 
had two credit limit increases  in July 2019 and November 2019.
Mrs S says that NewDay shouldnt have lent to her. She says she couldnt afford the 
repayments and that the credit limit increases made things worse.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ss complaint should be partially upheld. She thought that 
NewDay shouldnt have increased Mrs Ss credit limit on the Aqua card in December 2018 or 
on the Amazon card from November 2019.
NewDay agreed with this approach and agreed to pay back the relevant interest and 
charges. Mrs S disagreed, though. She thought that she shouldnt have been given any 
increase in her credit limit on the Amazon card at all.
As Mrs S didnt agree, her complaint was passed to me to make a decision. When I 
reviewed the case I came to a different decision to our adjudicator. I agreed with Mrs S that 
NewDay shouldnt have provided her with the Amazon card at all. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mrs S agreed with my decision; NewDay didnt respond. As 
NewDay didnt respond I am writing this final decision so it is clear what is required of 
NewDay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, I came to a slightly different conclusion to our adjudicator. I think that
NewDay shouldnt have provided Mrs S with the Amazon card at all. Ill explain why Ive
have reached this decision.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S could
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts, Mrs Ss lending history and Mrs Ss income and expenditure.
I agreed with our adjudicator that before the Aqua account was opened that NewDay carried
out proportionate checks. It asked about Mrs Ss income, employment status, residential
status and information about her levels of debt at the time. It also completed a credit check
to understand her financial circumstances. Having looked at the outcome of these checks
and enquiries I think NewDay made a fair lending decision and the credit was likely to have 
been affordable for Mrs S.
On 19 September 2018 Mrs S opened her Amazon account with an initial limit of £600. This
means that Mrs Ss overall credit limit with NewDay was £1,050.
Again, the same principles about proportionate checks applied here. Mrs Ss income and
household expenses hadnt changed significantly in the five months since shed opened her
Aqua account. She didnt have any arrears or defaults. NewDay says Mrs S was making
regular payments of more than the minimum amount on her Aqua account and that she was
managing her account well. Our adjudicator agreed and considered that NewDay had
provided Mrs S with an agreement that was likely to be affordable. However, I disagreed that
Mrs S had been managing her existing Aqua account well.
Mrs S had spent over her credit limit in two out of the four months between the two account
openings and shed made a late repayment in month four  each of these incurred a fee. Her
balances across all her credit card accounts (not just those provided by NewDay) had
increased by over £3,500 in a short time and the number of credit accounts she held had
increased from five to nine over those same months. So, I think this should have been
enough for NewDay to show caution about extending further credit to her. On the information
available to NewDay at the time I think it is reasonable to consider that there was evidence
to suggest Mrs S was not managing her existing credit commitments well and that further
credit may be unaffordable for Mrs S. So, I dont think it should have given Mrs S the 
Amazon card at all.
Mrs Ss credit limit on her Aqua card was increased to £1,100 in December 2018, giving Mrs
S an overall credit limit across both cards of £1,700. NewDay agreed that it shouldnt
have increased her limit at that time. Our adjudicator said that was because from August
2019 Mrs S exceeded her credit limit and was making regular cash transactions, which
should have suggested financial difficulty. I dont think its generally reasonable to hold a
business accountable for things that happen after credit is extended unless there is evidence
at the point of the increase that it shouldnt have been provided in the first place.
In this case, I consider that there was evidence before the increase was provided. As I have
already said, I dont think NewDay should have provided Mrs S with further credit in the form
of the Amazon card three months earlier. NewDay should have looked holistically at the
credit it offered Mrs S across both cards. Nothing happened in the intervening months to 
suggest Mrs Ss situation had significantly changed. In fact, she had made two further late
payments on her Aqua card and had incurred over limit fees on her Amazon account by
then.
So, I dont think NewDay should have provided any increase in Mrs Ss credit on her Aquacard after she opened her Aqua account and I dont think NewDay should have provided Mrs
S with the Amazon card at all.
Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right it is fair and reasonable
for NewDay to refund any interest and charges incurred by Mrs A on balances above £450
from 4 December 2018 and any interest and charges on the Amazon account. To reflect this,
NewDay should:
Remove all interest and charges on balances above £450 on the Aqua card and on
any balance on the Amazon card incurred from 19 September 2018 (which is when
the Amazon account was opened).
Work out how much Mrs S would have owed after the above adjustments. Any
repayment Mrs S made since 4 December 2018 should be used to reduce the
adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs S
along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of
settlement.
If after all the adjustments Mrs S no longer owes anything then all adverse 
information regarding the accounts should be removed from the credit file from 19
September 2018.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should look to arrange an affordable
payment plan with Mrs S for the outstanding amount. If any debt was sold to a third
party NewDay must either repurchase the debt or liaise with the third party to ensure
the above steps are undertaken. Once Mrs S has cleared the balance any adverse
information should be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs S a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mrs Ss complaint as explained above. I direct NewDay Ltd to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman