DRN-2950064
The complaint
Mr S complains that a van he took on hire purchase from FCE Bank Plc was not of 
satisfactory quality. FCE Bank Plc trades as Ford Credit. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr S entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit for 
a new van. The cash price of the van was just over £25,300; Mr S was to make monthly 
payments of £350.99. 
Mr S says that very shortly after he took delivery of the van it went into limp mode. He took 
it to the supplying dealership, but it could not find any fault. Mr S says that several other 
issues came to light as well, including with the vans steering, fuel pump and the side door 
runner. 
In August 2019 the van was the subject of a general recall. The necessary work and 
software update were carried out. 
Mr S contacted Ford Credit in November 2019 to complain about the problems he had had 
with the van. He had returned it to the dealership on several occasions. He thought he 
should not have been provided with a van which had a known fault, as evidenced by the 
recall notice. 
Ford Credit did not agree that the van was not of satisfactory quality. A recall might be 
necessary for a number of reasons  including improvements and preventative measures. 
Further, it said that the dealership had been unable to identify any faults once the necessary 
work had been carried out. It acknowledged however that Mr S had been put to some 
inconvenience and offered to make a payment to him of £350.99  one monthly payment 
under the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr S did not accept the offer and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
The investigator agreed that the van had not been of satisfactory quality. However, he noted 
that any faults had been rectified and that Mr S had been supplied with a courtesy vehicle on 
each occasion his van had been back to the dealership. He thought that Ford Credits offer 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ford Credit initially said that this service had no power to consider this complaint, because it 
was referred to us more than six months after its final response. Generally, we cannot 
consider a complaint referred to us outside that time limit, unless there are exceptional 
circumstances or the respondent business consents. Ford Credit did subsequently give its 
consent in this case, so I do not need to consider whether there were exceptional 
circumstances here.
The hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the van would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. In this case, the van was new, so a reasonable person would probably 
expect it to be virtually fault-free for some time. 
It appears to be accepted that there were faults with the van. Whilst there is little information 
about the faults that Mr S reported  because the dealership resolved them  I accept that 
too. I must consider however how the complaint that has arisen as a result should be 
resolved  including whether enough has already been done. 
Mr S has returned the van to the dealership on more than one occasion. He has had the use 
of a courtesy vehicle in the meantime. I understand though that he uses the van for work and 
that on each occasion he has had to move his tools from one vehicle to the other and back 
again. To that extent, he has been put to additional inconvenience. He has however 
confirmed that the van is free of any further issues; that is in line with the dealerships 
findings. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that Ford Credits offer of £350.99 is a fair 
one. I shall therefore simply leave it to Mr S to decide whether, on reflection, he is prepared 
to accept it in order to resolve his complaint.          
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not require FCE Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman