DRN-3605026
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
What happened
Mr P made a connection on a dating app. The person he was speaking to (who Ill refer to as 
M) gained his trust and spoke to him regularly, using both instant messages and video calls. 
During their conversations, cryptocurrency investing came up. M convinced Mr P to invest in 
a new cryptocurrency coin that had not yet been listed. She reassured him and gave the 
impression that she was knowledgeable about cryptoassets.
M told Mr P the launch of the new coin was time sensitive and that he shouldnt miss out. 
She sent him a link to open up an account on an exclusive trading platform. Across a two-
week period, Mr P made three payments from his Lloyds account to an account he held at a 
cryptocurrency exchange and then moved the money on from there. The first payment was 
for £4,500, the two payments that followed were for £2,000 each. In addition to this, Mr P 
also invested 0.442 BTC that he already owned, which at the time of the transfer was worth 
around £3,500. 
Mr P explains that to start with he was able to access his funds on the exclusive trading 
platform, but soon after the supposed release date of the coin this stopped. The new coin 
was not listed on any of the main cryptocurrency exchanges. M stopped responding to 
Mr Ps messages.
Mr P reported the situation to Lloyds, but it turned down his claim for a refund. Unhappy with 
the banks position, Mr P made a complaint. In its final response letter, Lloyds said that it 
was not liable for refunding the money that had been lost and said Mr P should contact the 
cryptocurrency exchange instead. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. Two of our Investigators looked into the matter, 
but both concluded there was no basis on which they could fairly and reasonably ask Lloyds 
to refund the money that had been lost. 
They said the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) that was set up to 
provide protection for customers that fall victim to APP scams did not apply because Mr P 
was making a payment to another account in his own name that he held and operated. 
They looked into whether Lloyds should have done more to protect Mr P from financial harm 
from fraud but felt the transactions he was making would not have stood out as being 
unusual or suspicious.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. He explained 
that he was in a difficult financial situation now and that the bank should have done more. 
In summary, he said that Lloyds owed him a duty of care under fraud protection regulations. 
He said that his Lloyds account was the first point of contact for the scam and that it could 
have helped to prevent the scam from developing if the payments had been flagged.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in debate that Mr P has fallen victim to a particularly cruel scam. He was tricked by a 
fraudster that manipulated him into thinking they had made a romantic connection and then 
she deceived him into transferring his life savings. Mr P has explained that the aftermath of 
the scam has left him suffering with depression and struggling with his day to day expenses. 
I dont underestimate the emotional impact that he has been carrying since. But I can only 
compel Lloyds to refund Mr P if it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having carefully 
considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can fairly say 
that Lloyds should be held liable for some or all of Mr Ps loss. I will explain why. 
As part of this complaint, I am only able to consider whether Lloyds has any responsibility to 
refund the £8,500 that was directly transferred from Mr Ps bank account. 
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Mr P made the 
payments himself. He set up the payment instructions and agreed that they should be made. 
This means that they were authorised payments, even though Mr P did not intend for this 
money to go to fraudsters. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that Lloyds should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations 
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
So Ive also considered whether Lloyds should have identified that Mr P was potentially
at risk of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done more to protect
him. 
Lloyds did not identify any of the payments Mr P made as being out of character or
suspicious at the time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly
out of character, its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to
strike between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and
allowing customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary
disruptions.Ive looked carefully at Mr Ps account statements in the lead up to the scam to get a
clear understanding of how the account typically ran. Having done so, I dont consider the 
payments Mr P was making as part of the scam would have stood out enough to the bank to 
be considered unusual or out of character for him. He did make larger payments to his own 
accounts held elsewhere from time to time.
With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that the payments Mr P made were going to be 
lost to fraud. But when Mr P sent the money, this wouldnt have been obvious to Lloyds. The 
payments are unremarkable, and I dont think the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify 
a potential scam risk. Mr P was making payments to another one of his own accounts. He 
wasnt making the payments in quick succession. The second payment was 11 days after 
the first, with the third payment following a number of days later. I dont consider its 
reasonable to expect Lloyds to ask questions about payments that arent unusual or out of 
character. This means that I do not need to go on to consider whether anything Lloyds could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped Mr P from making some or all of 
the payments.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason, 
and in particular, whether Lloyds ought to have reimbursed Mr P under the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr P made the payments. But the Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only covers scam 
payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a consumers 
own account. In this case, Mr P sent the money to his own account held with a 
cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Lloyds is responsible for reimbursing 
Mr P because of any obligation under the CRM Code.  
Having carefully considered everything, there is not enough here for me to think Lloyds 
should have suspected Mr P might be the victim of a potential scam at the time he made the 
payments from his Lloyds account. As the funds went to Mr Ps own account with the 
cryptocurrency exchange and then on from there, there was little opportunity for Lloyds to 
recover those funds or find out more specific details about where they are now. I cant fairly 
say Lloyds should have foreseen the money Mr P was sending from his Lloyds account were 
at risk of being lost to fraud.
I am sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr P and I can understand why he wants to
recover the money hes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. But for the reasons Ive
explained, Im satisfied Mr P isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there
are any other grounds on which I could say that Lloyds should bear the responsibility for 
Mr Ps loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman