DRN-3343489
The complaint
X complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
asked her to pay to refurbish a car she returned at the end of its lease. X says she wasnt 
given a fair opportunity to inspect and fix the car prior to its collection.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
X acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held X responsible for keeping the car in good condition. 
X would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct condition.
X says that MBFS refused to extend her lease and that by doing so they denied her the 
opportunity to have the car inspected and any repairs completed. 
MBFS were not obligated to allow a lease extension and it wouldnt therefore be fair for me 
to suggest they were wrong not to provide one in this case.
I understand that MBFSs decision not to extend the lease gave X some problems as the 
dealership didnt fix the cars electrical problems until the day before the car was due to be 
inspected and returned: 1 July 2021. 
But the car wasnt returned on 1 July 2021 and in an email X sent to MBFS on 12 July 2021 
she explained that shed been trying to return the car for some time and that if MBFS didnt 
arrange collection soon she would consider charging them storage costs.
I think that suggests X didnt need any more time to arrange repairs before the car was 
inspected so I dont think she was denied an opportunity to arrange repairs.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
Ive considered each of the four areas of damage MBFS are looking to charge X for and I 
think in each case there is evidence the damage is beyond what the BVRLA guidance would 
suggest was fair wear and tear.
Rear bumper no professional repair (£210)
The BVRLA guidance says that repairs should be completed to a professional standard and 
that obvious evidence of poor repair shouldnt be noticeable. I think there is obvious 
evidence of a poor repair. There are extensive surface marks and a generally poor paint 
finish. I think the charge has therefore been fairly applied.
Door shut dent (£130)
The BVRLA guidance says dents are allowable as long as theyre not bigger than 15mm in 
diameter. The ruler in the inspectors photograph of the damage shows the dent to be 
greater than 15mm so I think the charge has been fairly applied.
Lamp overspray (£16)
The BVRLA guidance says that repairs should be completed to a professional standard and 
that obvious evidence of poor repair shouldnt be noticeable. The overspray is noticeable 
and 
Quarter panel dent (£35)
The BVRLA guidance says dents are allowable as long as theyre not bigger than 15mm in 
diameter. The ruler in the inspectors photograph of the damage shows the dent to be 
greater than 15mm so I think the charge has been fairly applied.
So, I dont think MBFS have done anything wrong when theyve levied the charges they 
have for refurbishing the car.
X says that MBFS were rude to her when they made the decision not to extend the lease. I 
dont think theres evidence that was the case. I think the call handlers were professional and 
polite in their dealings with X and Ive not seen evidence of a rude or harsh approach. So, 
Im not asking MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman