DRN-2797726
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly. 
 
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration.
 
Draftys records show that Mr W applied for £350 as a loan. Mr A declared a monthly 
income of £1,300 with outgoings of £225. Drafty says that it carried out checks. The credit 
facility was approved with a limit of £350 in May 2016.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr W (clause 5). On the assumption that Mr W drew down the full 
£350 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then the total 
amount payable would have been just under £470. This would have equated to about £39 a 
month.  
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Ws salary payment date and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near 
Mr Ws monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that the initial approval of a 
£350 credit limit in May 2016 was satisfactory considering the information Drafty had at the 
time Mr W applied to it. However, she did think that Drafty should have monitored the 
account more closely and thought that the account should have been suspended earlier than 
it was. She though it ought to have been from 11 July 2017. She also thought that Mr Ws 
credit file should be amended from that date. 
Drafty agreed with this and made some calculations to show what the redress would look 
like. As Mr W had an outstanding balance with it, then it reduced that balance by the sum 
outstanding. 
Mr W did not agree and thought that the account should never have been approved for him. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being 
borrowed was due to be repaid.
As both parties have agreed with the fact that the complaint should be upheld in part, and 
that Drafty needs to put things right for Mr W from 11 July 2017, then I do not need to review 
this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W says that his financial position when he first applied for the account in May 2016 was 
so poor that Drafty should never have approved the line of credit for him. He makes mention 
of other outstanding loans and that he took a loan with Gain Credits sister company. That 
was in December 2017 which post dates the suspension of this account. So is irrelevant for 
this decision on Mr Ws complaint about Drafty. But I have looked at what Mr W has said and 
has sent to us about the May 2016 application.
As Mr W was a new customer to Drafty in May 2016, and the checks I would have 
considered proportionate at the time, would have been to look to see what Mr W had 
declared to Drafty and, if it felt the need, to carry out a credit search. It relied on the figures 
Mr W gave to it and the credit search revealed little and certainly nothing that I can see was 
likely to have given Drafty cause for concern.
Mr W appears to have got a fact wrong about Drafty having information about him which 
showed that he was making monthly repayments of £600 to creditors in May 2016. But the 
credit search Drafty carried out showed that his total outstanding debt in May 2016 was £600 
and that he had four accounts in total, and that would not necessarily mean loans, but open 
accounts. I hope that this clarifies that point. That credit search showed no adverse 
information about Mr Ws credit history up to then, and by that I mean that Mr Ws record 
showed no defaults, late payments or any other financial issues such as insolvency. Mr W 
has explained that he was 19 years old at the time and so this credit file is what I would have 
expected to see for someone around that age: that there were not many items recorded.
Having reviewed what I have seen from both parties, and considering the proportionate 
approach I would expect Drafty to have taken at the time, then I do not think it needed to do 
more. 
The clause in the credit agreement (clause 5) refers to the assumption that if Mr W drew 
down the full £350 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments, 
the total amount payable would have been just under £470. This would have equated to 
about £39 a month. 
I think that Drafty was acting responsibly when, using the information it had, it approved the 
credit facility. This would have been on the basis that he was likely able to repay £39 a 
month for twelve months to repay the £350 credit amount applied for (and which he drew 
down). It would have been disproportionate for Drafty to have done more checks.I have reviewed the time the account was being used from May 2016 to July 2017 and I do 
not think that Drafty was likely to have seen anything which caused it concern between those 
dates. From Mr Ws explanations of why he thinks that Drafty ought to have done more, it 
leads me to think that Mr W may have thought that Drafty was a lender which had access to 
his bank accounts on a read only basis which I know at least one other provider does. 
Drafty was not able to read Mr Ws transactions on his bank account. And so it monitored the 
account by seeing how Mr W used it. 
I can see from the Drafty statements that in December 2016 Mr W had used about a third of 
the credit available to him. And by February 2017 the account balance had reduced to £0 as 
Mr W had paid it off. After that Mr W drew down relatively small sums for a couple of months 
until late April 2017. This pattern of using the account is not likely to have caused Drafty 
concern. 
I agree with our adjudicator in relation to the 11 July 2017 date being the time at which 
Drafty ought to have ceased lending to Mr W and/or suspended the credit account. And the 
redress section below reflects what she said in her letter to Mr W and is what Drafty have 
agreed to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Drafty should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W from 11 July 2017, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Draftys liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.Drafty has provided figures but these will need to be recalculated as they are out of date. 
Drafty ought to do as follows: 
 
A) remove all interest, fees and charges from the account from 11 July 2017; and
B) treat all payments Mr W made to the account from 11 July 2017 as though they had been 
repayments of the outstanding principal; and
C) refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on these payments from the 
date they would have arisen to the date the refund was made; and
D) Drafty can use the refund sums to use to set-off what Mr W owes it. 
For the lending after 11 July 2017 then the unpaid charges and interest should be removed.
 
If a balance remains then Drafty should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W; and
E) remove any adverse payment information from Mr Ws credit file from 11 July 2017 once 
the outstanding sum has been repaid.
* HM Revenue and Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted  if at all  if Mr W asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, does as I have indicated above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman