DRN-2657252
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
failed to treat him fairly when he took pension benefits in the form of an annuity in 2009. 
What happened
Mr B held pension savings with The Co-operative Investments (CIS). That firm now forms 
part of Royal London so it is that business that is responsible for, and has responded to, 
Mr Bs complaint. Although Mr Bs dealings at the time were not with Royal London, I will 
refer to that business throughout this decision for simplicity.
Mr Bs pension savings were held in what Royal London called an Option 32 Policy. That 
pension plan provided him with some guaranteed benefits when he reached his selected 
retirement age. Mr B was due to reach that age in February 2009. Mr Bs pension savings 
were actually held in two policies  and that resulted in him purchasing two annuities. But the 
process and information for each annuity purchase was identical. For ease, I will treat them 
as a single purchase in this decision.
In preparation for his retirement Royal London first wrote to Mr B in October 2008 providing 
him with a timetable of when he would need to make the important decisions. The letter that 
Royal London sent said that a booklet, Your Pension  Its time to choose, was included. 
And then, in January 2009, Royal London provided Mr B with the final information about the 
value of his pension benefits and the options available to him to put those benefits into 
payment. That letter said a further copy of the Your Pension  Its time to choose was 
included. Mr B responded to the letter he received from Royal London almost immediately. 
He selected the option to receive an annuity, and this commenced the following month.
In 2019 Mr B complained to Royal London about the information hed been sent when he 
was preparing for his retirement. He had faced some serious health issues in 
December 2007 that he had advised to Royal London in September 2008. He complains that 
Royal London failed to offer, or make him aware of, enhanced annuities that he thinks he 
would have been entitled to receive as a result of his health problems.
Royal London didnt agree with Mr Bs complaint. It said that it didnt provide him with any 
advice when he was sold the annuities. It said that it didnt offer enhanced annuities at the 
time. And it said that the information it sent to Mr B made him aware that he could transfer 
his pension savings to another provider who might be able to offer him a better, or more 
suitable, annuity. Unhappy with Royal Londons response Mr B brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that 
Royal London had provided Mr B with sufficient information about the choices he had at 
retirement and had met its regulatory obligations. So he didnt think Mr Bs complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first consider the basis on which Royal London sold the annuities to Mr B. 
There isnt any persuasive evidence that Mr Bs annuity sale was on an advised basis. I say 
this because theres nothing to show Mr Bs circumstances were discussed in any detail  
theres no fact find, or personalised recommendation, for example. The sales documents say 
Mr B should consider taking financial advice  which would seem odd if Royal London was 
already providing that advice. And the Your Options at Retirement document that 
Royal London sent to Mr B in the run-up to his retirement said it was for Mr B to choose his 
pension benefits. It also provided him with four options: accept one of Royal Londons 
annuity quotes; defer taking pension benefits; request further illustrations or exercise the 
option market option. The listing of a broad range of alternative options like this strikes me 
as being in keeping with a non-advised sale because an advised sale would likely have 
resulted in a less open-ended recommendation.
I entirely accept that, in September 2008, Mr B had made Royal London aware that hed 
suffered from a serious bout of ill-health just under a year before. Hed made that disclosure 
to Royal London when asking to start the process of deciding how to best utilise his pension 
savings when he reached 65 years of age in February 2009. But that sort of information 
wouldnt normally influence what Royal London would send to a consumer when it wasnt 
providing a recommendation. And Royal London itself didnt offer enhanced annuities at that 
time on Mr Bs pension policy. So I dont think that, by failing to take account of Mr Bs ill-
health when it provided the annuity quotations, Royal London treated him unfairly.
That said, Royal London still had to fulfil certain obligations regarding the information it 
provided to Mr B in the run-up to his retirement. Im satisfied it did so.
Royal London included information on the open market option in its retirement mailing, 
including the estimated amount of Mr Bs pension fund and an explanation of how the open 
market option worked. In particular the letter sent to Mr B said, in regard to the Open Market 
Option;If you exercise this option you can choose to use the money in your pension fund to 
purchase a pension annuity from a different provider of your choice instead of from 
CISOther providers will have different pension annuity products with different 
annuity rates. You may be able to buy a pension annuity from another provider, 
which pays out a higher income than the income paid out under the pension annuity 
product offered by CIS.
Royal London also says it included in its retirement mailings a Financial Services Authority 
factsheet called Your pension  its time to choose. I can see that Royal London actually 
says it sent this factsheet twice  in October 2008 and January 2009. I appreciate that Mr B 
says he didnt receive either copy. But I have noted that Mr B appears to have carefully 
analysed all the correspondence sent to him  he has carefully annotated the letters with any 
errors or questions. Since Royal London made specific reference to this factsheet in its 
letters I think it likely that Mr B would have questioned its omission at the time had it not 
been included. I think it more likely that, given the passage of time, Mr B has simply 
forgotten about receiving this factsheet.
I think its worth highlighting some (but not all) of the things the factsheet said about the open 
market option, enhanced annuities and single/joint life annuities, all of which were concerns 
raised by Mr B at various points:
You dont have to buy your annuity from your pension provider. You can shop 
around. This is known as an open market option.
Some companies offer impaired-life annuities that pay a higher than normal income 
if you have health problems that threaten to reduce your lifespan. You might be able 
to get an enhanced annuity if you are overweight or smoke regularly. Some 
companies offer higher rates to people who have followed certain occupations or 
people who live in certain parts of the country.
single life - an annuity just for you if either you dont have a spouse or partner, or 
they have their own pension arrangements; and joint life - an annuity that will pay out 
to you and then your spouse or partner after your death (normally at a reduced rate).
As I said earlier I think the factsheet was most likely sent to Mr B on two occasions. By 
sending this factsheet, along with the statement on the open market option, Royal London 
fulfilled its requirements, under the relevant regulations, to tell Mr B about his various options 
in the run-up to retirement.
I recognise Mr B questions what the factsheet disclosed  and in particular whether he could 
reasonably infer from the example health problems listed that his specific medical condition 
might enable him to benefit from an enhanced annuity. But the key issue here  given the 
rules in place at the time  is whether the factsheet was sent or not. Im satisfied it was. 
Given this, and taking all the above into consideration, Im satisfied Mr B was given the 
information he should have been given regarding his retirement options.
Mr B has highlighted a review that was recently undertaken by the regulator in respect of 
issues similar to the matters he has raised. He says that the review shows that there were 
widespread problems across the industry in how consumers were told about enhanced 
annuities. I have thought carefully about what he has said. But the results of the review led 
to the regulator asking some firms, who it had particular concerns about, to take actions to 
review and correct errors that had been made in the past. Royal London was not one of 
those firms. So I dont think it reasonable to conclude that, because of the failings of other 
firms, I should conclude it likely that Royal London failed to treat Mr B fairly when it sold the 
annuities to him.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman