DRN-2847738
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs P has supplied the copy agreements for loans 2, 3 and 4, which has been helpful as 
Morses supplied a brief loan table and no documentation at all. It explained that the time 
between Mrs P bringing her complaint and the issuing of the loans was long enough for the 
records to have been deleted. It said:
All of the loans for this account are outside of our data retention period, and 
therefore we have no documentation for them, though we have included a summary 
of these loans and the final response letter sent.
We consent to you including these loans in your investigation.
The current status of the account is closed - with external debt collector.
Using information from Mrs P and from Morses I have created this brief loan table. 
Loan 
NoBorrowed date
Term 
(weeks)Amount 
per 
weekPrincipal 
sum 
borrowedAmount to 
be repaidActual end 
date/account 
closure
1 January 2013 - - - - -
2 16 August 2013 32 £10 £200 £320 14 March 2014
3 09 December 
2013 50£17.50
£500 £87515 July 2015
4 07 April 2014 34 £25 £500 £850 15 July 2015
Mrs Ps memory of Loan 1 is that it was approved around January 2013 and the terms were 
the same or similar to that of loan 2. She thinks that it may have been rolled into loan 2 but 
theres no information about it, and its also possible that it was paid off before loan 2 was 
issued. The documentation Mrs P has sent shows that all the loans were Shopacheck loans. 
Loan 1 is one we cant look at against Morses as it seemed to be settled prior to Morses 
acquiring Shopacheck in March 2014.
Mrs P is clear that her complaint should be upheld. She has explained that she had loans 
with another home credit provider and four payday loans while she had the loans with 
Morses/Shopacheck. 
Mrs P goes on to say that No credit checks were taken out on any of the loans. At the time 
of the loans I was receiving only ESA Dwp of some £72. Per week. 
From reading all the correspondence between Mrs P and our adjudicator, the heart of 
Mrs Ps complaint is that she says that if Morses had carried out the credit checks at the time 
they were approved then it would not have approved them. She seeks a full refund of 
interest and charges. 
Mrs P has said These loans were unsustainable, as I was put under pressure to take out 
further lending in order to be able to service them and pay limited living expenses.
Mrs P has said that a collector or agent did not collect the repayments at her home: most of 
the payments were made to Morses office by debit card.
Our understanding from Morses is that the account is closed and it is with a third party debt 
collector. And so, the July 2015 date in the loan table (loans 3 and 4) above may be the date 
that the loans were sold to that third party. But I have no information on that. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that he did not have enough 
information to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. After she had sent him some additional information 
his view had not altered and so the complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered. Most of the loans approved would have been at the time that 
the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guide was used as the benchmark. It 
changed on 1 April 2014 when the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took over the 
regulatory supervision of lenders, and the concepts of irresponsible lending were maintained 
into the new regulatory regime with the FCA. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Morses was required to establish whether Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the OFT and then the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be 
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Background relevant information 
Shopacheck was part of Welcome Financial Services (Welcome FS) which was sold to 
Morses on 10 March 2014. Morses took over the loan book but would not have issued any 
loans approved before 10 March 2014 as it did not own the company at that point. 
Welcome FS retained responsibility for loans which were granted by it and had been repaid, 
sold or written off before 10 March 2014. That means Mrs Ps loan 1 would not be the 
responsibility of Morses but rather Welcome FS which is in liquidation. We wont be able to 
help with a complaint about Welcome FS because of the liquidation. So, I say no more about 
loan 1. 
After 10 March 2014 Morses took on responsibility for the complaints about loans approved 
by Shopacheck which loans were already approved and in place, but which remained open 
loans after 10 March 2014.
 
For Mrs P that means loans 2 and 3 are ones about which we can assess irresponsible 
lending even though Morses did not approve them as Morses is content to accept 
responsibility for complaints brought about them. And loan 4, approved soon after Morses 
bought Shopacheck, would have been assessed and approved by it. 
However, Morses has no records at all to give us about these loans, the application process, 
what checks it carried out or what information Mrs P gave to it (or Shopacheck) at the time of 
the applications, and theres no information about what repayments were or may have been 
made over the years. I find it disappointing that Morses has no information to send us and 
I note Mrs Ps comment that she received documents from Morses before bringing her 
complaint to us. However, its also not unreasonable for Morses to have a data retention 
policy and if the documents have been deleted then theres little I can do about it. 
And so, I am having to decide on very limited information.
Evidence for this complaint 
Mrs P has provided some information to substantiate her complaint most of which I have 
listed here, together with my views on the evidence:- a local authority Council Tax reduction letter dated 18 December 2014, which Mrs P 
says demonstrates that she was receiving Contributory ESA of £72.40 a week (page 
two is missing). This post-dates the fourth loan and so, on its own, this letter does not 
show me what her income was for the loan approval dates; 
- a Housing Benefit letter dated January 2015 which shows that the weekly income 
used in the calculation was just over £95, and that Mrs P was to receive housing 
benefit paid directly to her landlord on 26 January 2015.  Mrs P has sent a second 
letter of a similar nature. These post-date the lending period with Morses and reveal 
different income information and so contradicts the Council Tax reduction letter and 
on their own do not show me Mrs Ps income at the time of the lending; 
- a lenders Notice of Arrears dated May 2013. This pre-dates Morses involvement with 
Shopacheck;
- a credit card statement from May 2013 showing that Mrs P was over her limit and 
behind on her repayments; 
- a County Court Judgment (CCJ) dated 26 March 2013 for £776.75;
- the Jobcentre writing to her about a medical certificate renewal needed in 
March 2013;
- several credit-file screenshots (un-named) showing historic loans which remain 
outstanding; 
- a screenshot from a different lender or its administrators referring to a Total Potential 
Redress figure about her claim. There were no details about the loan dates or 
amounts and little was included in that screenshot;  
- information about a different payday and instalment loan lender which went into 
administration. No details of the loans she had with that company were included;
- information about a lenders scheme of arrangement pay-out to Mrs P. Complaints 
dealt with by personnel working within a lenders scheme of arrangement will have 
different approaches and criteria to apply to complaints resolved by this Service.   
Mrs P has shared with us a final response letter (FRL) from the summer of 2020 from 
another lender relating to a different complaint she initiated. That FRL gives a loan table for 
which she was indebted to that other company. Many of them cover the same period as the 
Shopacheck/Morses lending period and range from loan amounts of £500 to £1,000. So, this 
does show other debts Mrs P had with one other lender at the time. 
But this FRL also shows that Mrs P had told that other lender she was in receipt of between 
£600.00 and £624.00 per week. After considering your outgoings based on what you told 
your Agent in your home and what your credit file stated, you had an average disposable 
income of £200.00 per week. 
Although I do not accept the figures in the FRL as evidence for this complaint because it 
relates to a different complaint and lender altogether, I do note that its possible Mrs P may 
have declared the same or a similar income to Shopacheck/Morses when she was applying 
for the loans to which this current complaint relates. And so, this FRL casts doubt on what 
Mrs P has been saying: that her income  was £72.40 a week at the time she applied for the 
Morses loans. 
Mrs P was asked to send to us her bank statements to gain some clarity on her income at 
the time of the Shopacheck/Morses lending periods, and to identify her exact outgoings. But 
she has said that these will take many weeks to obtain, as that account/accounts is/are 
closed. Mrs P says that we have had the complaint for long enough and she does not see 
why we must see the bank statements. Mrs P brought her complaint to this Service in 
August 2020 which is almost a year ago.  I believe you have enough evidence in order to see that if Morses had made any 
checks they would have seen that these loans were unsustainable, with an income of 
£72 per week and huge loans outstanding. I had payday loans for daily living 
expenses.
And more recently Mrs P has added: I have provided more proof of my debts, I believe that 
this information should be enough for you to deal with my complaint, without waiting for bank 
statements and escalating to ombudsman.
I understand why Mrs P wants this Service to get on with the complaint. She has given 
reasons why she does not wish to send to us any further documents or evidence. And so, 
I have decided that Mrs P s desire to gain resolution, balanced with the respondent lenders, 
Morses, need to gain finality, lead me to think that issuing the final decision now is the right 
course of action. 
My view is that the information I have from both parties is sporadic and incomplete.  
I empathise with Mrs P and I can understand why she confidently asserts that had Morses 
carried out a credit search, it would have revealed enough for it not to have granted these 
loans. But as I have explained  it does not have any documentation about the approvals for  
loans 2 and 3, and as for loan 4 I do not know if Morses did carry out the credit searches she 
is so sure it did carry out. At the time of loan 4 (April 2014) there were no FCA regulatory 
requirements for it to do that. 
And if it had carried out a credit search (which I do not know that it did and I have no 
documentation about), from the limited evidence I have from Mrs P, then I do not think I have 
enough to make a proper assessment. The information about Mrs Ps debts have been sent 
to me, but many are incomplete and/or are not showing that these were from Mrs Ps credit 
file or whether the loans to which the debts relate all date back to the Shopacheck/Morses 
periods. Some do  but some are unclear as to whether they do. 
If Shopacheck/Morses did not know about those loans and other debts at the time of the 
loan approvals then I cant decide that it lent irresponsibly to her. And if, as I explained 
earlier is a possibility, Mrs P did use similar weekly income figures as she appears to have 
done when applying to another lender for loans (between £600.00 and £624.00 per week), 
then its likely Shopacheck/Morses may have had the same information and so it may have 
decided to lend responsibly with the information it had to hand. But this is bordering on 
speculative.
In all the circumstances I am not persuaded that a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is that Morses lent to Mrs P irresponsibly. I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Additional points raised by Mrs P 
Mrs P has said that a complaint she made to another home-credit lender led to it upholding 
her complaint, and her view is I can see no excuse whatsoever for you to not uphold the 
complaint with Morses. There are no differences whatsoever in the circumstances in
the loans.
Mrs P also pointed out that in her view this Service always side unfairly with 
Businesses. 
I can assure Mrs P that each complaint is dealt with on its own merits and that we are an 
impartial Service. And what little we know of the complaint she brought with that other home-
credit lender, it appears that the lender resolved the complaint with Mrs P before we reviewed it: our involvement was unnecessary. And so, the circumstances were different 
with that complaint in which Mrs P successfully resolved it with that lender herself. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman