DRN-3731325
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost, which he believes was 
as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mr F, and his wife Mrs F, befriended some neighbours, who Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs W. 
Initially Mrs F became friendly with Mrs W, while walking their dog, but Mr and Mrs F were 
then introduced to Mr W. Mr and Mrs F had known the neighbours for a couple of years 
when they started to discuss Mr Ws work as a cryptocurrency trader. Mr and Mrs F were 
told that Mr W was doing well with his trading, and they were curious to find out more.
Mr W shared his details with Mr and Mrs F, and they exchanged some messages, which 
demonstrated how well Mr W was doing and showing the potential returns they could get.  
Mr F has told us that the opportunity to make money was of particular interest to him, as it 
may have enabled him and his wife to help his daughter and her husband, who has a 
medical condition, and he hoped it may help give them some security.
Mr F discussed terms with Mr W and agreed to invest. Entering into what he believed was a 
contract of agreement, with Mr W being responsible for any money entering and exiting the 
trading account. Mr and Mrs F were also told that stop losses would be placed on trades, 
with Mr W saying this would mean it was impossible to lose any money. Mr F has said he 
and his wife did carry out their own research into crypto-currency, and what they found was 
consistent with what Mr W had told them.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs F decided to invest, initially making payments from a joint 
account (the joint account) they held with another provider. Mr W showed them screenshots 
of their trading account, which appeared to show profits being made on their investments, 
which persuaded Mr and Mrs F to keep investing. From what Ive seen, in total, Mr F (and 
Mrs F) made payments totalling £57,775 with the intention of the money going towards 
investments. The majority of these payments were made from the joint account, but they did 
include a payment, on 20 March 2021, for £15,000, from the account Mr F held with HSBC. 
Mr F has said that he asked Mr W for access to his trading account, so that he could view 
the trades directly, but Mr W never provided him with this. Mr W told Mr and Mrs F that they 
had made substantial profits, but they would need to pay tax of £3,175, in order for the 
profits to be released (which Mr and Mrs F paid from the joint account). Mr and Mrs F began 
to ask Mr W to withdraw funds, and after chasing numerous times, and having been given 
promises of payments, Mr and Mrs F received a payment from Mr W, for £3,175 on 26 June 
2021, which was paid into the joint account.
Mr F started to become suspicious when further promises of lump sum payments werent 
forthcoming, although Mr W did start to make some payments back to Mr and Mrs F. From 
the information Ive seen, between 26 June 2021 and 29 August 2021, £29,675 was returned 
to them (with all the payments being made to the joint account).
Mr F has said that after speaking to some other neighbours, who had also invested with     
Mr W, but who had not received promised returns, he thought he had been scammed.  
Mr F raised the matter with HSBC, who looked into the concerns that he had raised. It 
considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), of 
which it is a signatory and sent its final response on 12 October 2021, not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. In summary, it didnt consider the matter should be classed as a fraud or scam 
and that this was a civil dispute. It added that it was unable to do anything to try and recover 
the funds.
Mr F has told us that he and his wife reported the matter to the police, who are actively 
investigating the case. 
Mr F then brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Mr F and Mr W. In summary, she didnt think that what shed seen were the typical 
hallmarks of a scam.
Through his representative, Mr F disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary he 
maintained he was sure that a fraud had taken place and gave examples of comments from 
Mr W that he considered to be false. Including guaranteeing high returns, and that money 
couldnt be lost. As well as this, he said it wasnt legitimate to be asked to pay tax on 
withdrawals and that this frequently happens with Cryptocurrency scams.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr Fs representatives have referred to other decisions issued by our service. But 
I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr F, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But not all cases where individuals have 
lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which HSBC has signed up to and was in force at 
the time Mr F made this payment. And outside of the Code, HSBC also has wider obligations 
to fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments, for example it doesnt cover civil disputes and the code defines an APP scam as;
DS1(2)
 
(a) APP Scam Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across 
Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in 
accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent 
There are further definitions provided in the Code, but Ive included the section that is 
specifically relevant to Mr Fs case.
So, to start, Ive considered whether Mr W was running a scam. Theres a high legal 
threshold for this. It wouldnt necessarily be enough that Mr W was promoting high-risk 
investments using methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.
Its clear the agreement Mr F entered into with Mr W didnt go as Mr F thought it would and I 
can understand entirely why he feels so strongly about what has happened. But having 
considered everything provided by both Mr F and HSBC, Im not persuaded, from what Ive 
seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say Mr W set out with the intention to defraud 
Mr F, when agreeing to invest on his behalf.
This means I dont think HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mr F under the CRM Code or 
because of any wider obligation it has to protect Mr F. I say that as, on balance, there are a 
number of factors, in the circumstances of this case, that arent typical of this being a scam;
- Mr W has returned payments to Mr F (and his wife), totalling nearly £30,000. This 
doesnt take away from the fact that Mr F is still at a loss, but I wouldnt expect a 
fraudster to return anything to Mr F, if he intended to steal his money  let alone such 
a substantial sum. 
- Im mindful Mr F feels that he was being groomed. But Im not persuaded it is usual 
behaviour for somebody who lives in such close proximity to set out with an intent to 
defraud. I say that as Mr F had known Mr W for a number of years, considered him to be a friend and was aware of Mr Ws genuine contact details. More typically, with 
scams such as these, the scammers provide false details, so as they cannot be 
traced after defrauding their victims. Here Mr F being aware of Mr Ws genuine 
details, would only increase Mr Ws risk of being caught with no benefit to them.
- In the circumstances of this case, Mr W continued to communicate with Mr F (and 
Mrs F), by way of messages and through in person conversations. He continued to 
make promises of returning money to Mr and Mrs F, and at least in part did return 
some money. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not, 
once in receipt of a victims money, will not send anything at all and will then no 
longer be contactable. It doesnt seem to be the case here that Mr W hasnt shown 
an intent to send funds back to Mr and Mrs F.
- Its not apparent, from what Ive seen, that Mr F was put under pressure to invest, 
which is often the case with investment scams. Rather, Mr F became interested and 
curious after hearing, over a period of time, about Mr Ws trading and approached 
him for further information about how he traded and what opportunities it may bring. 
- It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to ask for 
funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name, which Ive seen 
happened in this case. From the evidence Ive seen I cant fairly or reasonably say 
the beneficiary account demonstrates the characteristics that there was a clear intent 
to defraud.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr F has said, in that the rates of return being offered were 
high and that being told you cant lose your money, can be an indicator of a scam. There 
may well have been some sharp practice in terms of how Mr W has spoken to Mr F about 
the investment opportunities. But this doesnt automatically mean that he was willingly and 
intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately setting out to scam Mr F at the time. It is 
sometimes the case that people set out with a genuine belief that they can provide, what 
they promise, but that something goes wrong. Questionable trading practices are not enough 
for me to be as sure as I would need to be that Mr W acted dishonestly and deceitfully, by 
taking payments from Mr F in circumstances where he had no intention of investing for him. 
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, Mr W 
set out with the intent to defraud Mr F. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code 
doesnt apply. And I cant ask HSBC to refund the money Mr F has lost, as I dont think 
HSBC treated Mr F unfairly when it said the payment he made was not covered by the CRM 
Code.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr F and I dont underestimate how 
disappointing this will be for him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money Mr F has lost.
Finally, I am very mindful that there is an ongoing police investigation regarding Mr W. But 
this, in and of itself, isnt enough for me to conclude that a fraud has taken place and I am 
not aware that there have been any charges brought or any convictions. For the reasons Ive 
given, as it stands, there is not enough information for us to say this is a scam. However, 
should new material evidence come to light, the first port of call for Mr F would be to go back 
to the Bank for them to see if this new evidence would lead it to reconsidering 
reimbursement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman