DRN-4059589
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank plc restricted and then closed his accounts without 
notice. 
What happened
Mr A held three accounts with Barclays  a current account, a savings account, and a 
business account (set up as a sole trader account).  
On 9 June 2021 Mr A received two credits totalling £1,500 to his business account (along 
with other payments). Barclays sought from Mr A proof of the source of funds for these two 
payments, which Mr A provided. 
In the meantime, the bank suspended all three accounts. Restrictions were lifted  on or 
about 22 September 2021, and Mr A was able to withdraw his funds shortly afterwards. 
However, Barclays also took the view that the accounts should be closed. It wrote to Mr A on 
18 September 2021 to tell him that, and they were closed shortly afterwards. In effect, they 
were closed without notice.   
Mr A complained to Barclays. In its response, the bank explained why it had acted as it did. 
It did not change its decision about closing the accounts, but it did acknowledge that it would 
have been appropriate to give Mr A more notice of closure. It said too that some of its 
correspondence had not been as clear as it should have been, and there had been delays. It 
offered Mr A £300 by way of compensation. Mr A did not accept that offer and referred the 
matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but indicated that she thought the 
banks offer was fair. 
Mr A did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, it was reasonable of Barclays to seek more information about the credits in June 
2021 and to suspend Mr As accounts while it did so. I also think that the bank explained its 
reasons clearly in its letter in response to Mr As complaint. 
As far as the closure of the accounts is concerned, it is generally for a bank to decide 
whether to provide or to continue to provide banking services to a customer. It is not for me 
to interfere with the legitimate exercise of Barclays commercial judgment in deciding to 
withdraw services from Mr A. 
Usually, however, a bank should give reasonable notice before closing an account. What is 
reasonable depends on the circumstances, but I agree with the bank that 62 days would 
have been appropriate here.
That said, I note that Mr A has said that he had another account which he could use for his 
personal finances. He has not however suggested that he had any particular difficulty in 
opening a new business account. I note as well that he runs his business as a sole trader. 
Opening a new partnership or company account is likely to have caused more 
inconvenience than opening a sole trader account. 
For these reasons, I think the banks offer was reasonable. It is not clear however whether it 
is still open for acceptance, so I will make an award. That will enable Mr A to accept the 
offer, should he wish to do so. That will also enable him to enforce the award, in the unlikely 
event that is necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr As complaint in full, 
Barclays Bank plc should pay him £300. Payment should be made within 30 days of Mr As 
acceptance of this decision. If it is not, Barclays Bank plc should add interest at 8% a year 
simple from the date of acceptance until payment.      
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman