DRN-3996501
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim he made on his legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) policy to pursue a claim against his council and a landowner. 
What happened
Mr A owns a property and had house insurance which included LEI with QIC. A planning 
application was submitted in relation to neighbouring land whose owner I will call N. N had, 
prior to the application, removed some trees. Mr A objected to the planning application. The 
application was granted by the relevant council. Mr A thinks the council was negligent. He 
contacted QIC for support under his LEI policy. He also thinks he has a claim against N.
QIC declined his claim. It said Mr A wasnt covered for action against his council because 
that would either be through the councils appeal process  which wasnt covered as it is not 
legal action  or judicial review  which was expressly excluded.
It said action against N wasnt yet possible as N hadnt yet done anything which would 
constitute physical damage, a nuisance or trespass. It didnt agree that loss of view  
following the tree removal - constitutes a legal nuisance.
 
The investigator asked QIC to obtain a legal opinion and following this she didnt recommend 
upholding the complaint. She was satisfied that QIC had declined the claim regarding the 
landowner fairly, as the removal of the trees wouldnt be considered a legal nuisance, and 
the landowner hadnt yet caused other alleged legal nuisances. And QIC applied the 
exclusion regarding judicial review fairly in relation to the claim about the Council.
As Mr As property is in Scotland I asked that the legal opinion be from a lawyer qualified in 
Scottish law. I also asked that Mr A again be given the opportunity to provide his own legal 
opinion.
Mr A gave us some information from a call he made to his new insurers legal advice line. 
QIC provided an opinion. The investigator then issued a second view. In it she provided Mr A 
with relevant extracts from the new opinion. The only claim the opinion had said Mr A could 
make against either the council or N was a claim against N for loss of privacy. The 
investigator considered that this wasnt covered by the policy. She thought QIC could have 
used more direct language in its policy but taken together with the Insurance Product 
Information Document she thought Mr A was only covered  in the relevant section  for a 
trespass claim. She was therefore satisfied that QIC didnt have to provide funding under the 
policy, as the identified breach of Mr As legal rights wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr A has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says he did not claim for a judicial review. 
He claimed on other grounds. He has stated that there is wrongdoing by an official planning 
authority who changed fact-based information provided and ignored objections. This is he 
asserts a legal nuisance. The council he says failed to carry out a correct or adequate visual 
impact assessment and has used incorrect information to justify its approval despite him 
providing the correct information. He believes this to be a legal nuisance. He says it has also 
affected his legal rights to living in and owning his home as the council has failed to uphold 
his rights to residential amenity and residential visual amenity by ignoring objections, 
changing correct information to incorrect information and using incorrect information to justify 
approval. He thinks it is wrong to say he has to wait for something to become an issue 
before claiming. The approval itself and the way it was handled are, in his opinion, a current 
legal nuisance and affect him living in and owning his home at this time. It is clear to him 
from the policy wording and the situation, that cover should be provided to pursue this. 
He also says that the privacy claim identified by QICs solicitors should be covered. But 
disagrees with the solicitors advice that loss of privacy is not a legal nuisance. He thinks the 
policy has failed to be clear and unambiguous. He thinks it is ludicrous that he is being 
asked to get a legal opinion in order to claim and be appointed a solicitor. He thinks it is 
incorrect to discount the advice he has had because it is not written personally from a 
solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my reasoning regarding this complaint I want to make it clear that I am not 
considering Mr As complaint about the legal advice line process. This is being considered 
separately. Nor am I considering a new claim about the surveyor of the property or the 
conveyancer. 
The policy provides that QIC will pay:
Professional fees to pursue or defend legal action relating to:
i. An event which causes or could cause physical damage to your home or personal 
possessions that you own or are responsible for (the damage must have been 
caused after you first bought this insurance).
ii. A legal nuisance; or
iii. A claim that your legal rights relating to owning, living in and using your home have 
been broken (someone trespassing in your home).
Mr As claim against the council
Mr A think he should be covered for a claim against the council because he has a claim that 
his legal rights relating to owning, living in and using his home have been broken. He thinks 
the words at the end of the clause someone trespassing in your home which are included in 
brackets in the clause are only an example. 
He says: We have the legal right to both residential visual amenity and residential amenity. 
The Council Planning Department have failed to uphold these legal rights by granting 
planning permission in the knowledge that these legal rights are not being upheld. Therefore, 
on this basis we do have a viable legal claim under that section of the policy.
I can understand why Mr A feels that the words in sub-clause (iii) set out above should cover 
him and that if trespass is all that is covered by the sub-clause then the policy should have 
been clearer about that. But even if I were to agree with him that the reference to 
trespassing was merely an example I dont think the clause provides the cover he is seeking 
for action against the council. What the council has done which Mr A objects to is grant a 
planning permission over neighbouring land. Mr A doesnt have a legal right relating to his 
home for the council not to grant planning applications. Mr A says he has a right to residential visual amenity and residential amenity. But if the planning permission was 
never implemented then his residential visual amenity and residential amenity are not 
affected. It is only with the implementation of the planning permission that Mr A could claim 
that his legal rights have been broken. And even then if any legal rights had been broken 
they would have been broken by N not by the council.
Mr A also says that the fact that he is having to act is in itself a legal nuisance and this 
gives rise to a claim. Nuisance is a word used in everyday speech but also has a very 
specific meaning in a legal context. Legal nuisance is also defined in the policy as:
Any continuous activity by another person that causes a substantial and unreasonable 
interference with your use or your enjoyment of your home.
So, I cannot agree that the fact that Mr A feels he is being put to the trouble of having to take 
legal action is in itself legal nuisance.
In addition, I cant see any legal action that Mr A could take against the council other than 
judicial review and cover for judicial review is expressly excluded under the policy. Mr A 
thinks that there is another legal route to challenge the councils planning decision, but he 
hasnt explained what that legal action would be in a way that I can follow. He has been 
asked repeatedly to provide a legal opinion. He has not done so but instead as set out his 
understanding of his call with his new insurers legal advisers. I believe his recollection of 
that call is honest. But his explanation lacks the clarity and clear reasoning that I would need 
to be persuaded he has an action against the council. By contrast QIC has provided this 
service with advice from a suitably qualified solicitor who was asked to consider other routes 
and hasnt found one. That being the case I wont be upholding this part of his complaint.
Mr As claim against N
Mr A also thinks he should be covered under sub-clause (ii) set out above because there 
has been a nuisance by N. He says N has cut down trees thus affecting our residential 
visual amenity by exposing us to this unsightly view which was previously very well 
screened.
QIC appointed solicitors to look at the claim. They said they do not consider that Ns decision 
to remove the trees would constitute a legal nuisance. I think QIC is entitled to rely on the 
solicitors opinion. 
Mr A says his claim isnt about the loss of a view he is complaining about what I can see 
now the screening trees have been removed and the approved items that will be in sight. I 
am complaining about loss of residential visual amenity because my view has changed from 
one of good visual amenity to one of overbearing unsightly. I can understand the distinction 
he is seeking to make but I cant see that this is covered under his policy under any of the 
clauses. He has had the opportunity to obtain a legal opinion which challenges the advice 
given by the solicitor appointed by QIC and he hasnt done so. I therefore wont be upholding 
this part of his complaint.
Mr A also says that there has been a legal nuisance because N falsely stated works hadnt 
begun despite having cut down trees and this means he has to pursue legal action. As 
previously set out legal nuisance is defined in the policy and so just because something is 
about something legal and is a nuisance (in the everyday sense of the word) doesnt make it 
a legal nuisance.
Although Mr A is clearly unhappy with what had already happened at the neighbouring 
property his real concern is what the site would be like after the planning permission had 
been implemented. He explained for example that the constant comings and goings would be a nuisance. But his policy doesnt cover him to take action for a nuisance that might 
happen even if the chances of that happening are very high. The nuisance needs to have 
occurred. So, I think QIC acted reasonably when it explained that at that time the activity 
being complained about didnt constitute a legal nuisance although if they come to pass they 
may do.
QICs legal opinion did say there may be a claim for loss of privacy. Like the investigator I 
think sub-clause (iii) (set out above) of the policy could have been more direct, but I also 
think only trespass is covered by the wording; I am satisfied the wording at the end of the 
clause explains the clause further rather than gives an example. So, I dont think QIC has to 
provide funding under the policy, as the identified claim for loss of privacy isnt covered by 
the policy.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman