DRN-2738126
The complaint
Ms P complains that TSB Bank plc has been unable to trace a payment made to her 
account.
What happened
Ms P says she made a payment to her TSB account of over £57,000 from her account held 
in a bank in Turkey I will call C. She says TSB requested a certificate from C about the 
payment which she paid £54 to be translated and also wanted the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF) to verify a validation certificate. Ms P says the money didnt reach her TSB 
account and was told by C that the money was being held by the British Fraud Department. 
She would like her money returned and compensation for her expenses as well for the 
distress she has been caused.
TSB says it has no record of the payment and would not get involved in requesting 
certificates as Ms P says.
Ms P brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there any record of C in Turkey and couldnt contact it with the details provided by Ms 
P. The investigator thought there wasnt a record of a British Fraud Department and that 
TSB hadnt made a mistake or acted unfairly.
Ms P says she has provided details of Cs contact details and a copy of its e-mail to her. She 
maintains she has been treated badly by TSB.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that TSB has fairly explained to Ms P that it doesnt have a record of the 
payment and hasnt held the payment for security reasons. In those circumstances Im 
satisfied TSB didnt receive the payment and so cant be responsible for whats taken place.
I appreciate Ms P says it was TSB that requested the translation of the document and told C 
that the payment was being held by the British Fraud Department. But I think that information 
came from C and not TSB and Ms P will need to ask C why it said that as I dont think there 
is any record of the existence of the British Fraud Department. I also think Ms P will need to 
ask C why it made reference to the IMF or what relevance that has to an attempted transfer.
I appreciate Ms P will have unanswered questions about her money. But I think she will need 
to speak to C and if necessary, make a complaint to it as Im satisfied that TSB hasnt made 
any of the requests for further information or at any stage received Ms Ps money.
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint and find that TSB has tried to help Ms P but cant 
answer her questions about what took place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman