DRN-4433219
The complaint
Mrs R says Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs R applied for a credit card online on 25 September 2022. She was approved and given
a £1,500 limit. Mrs R says Capital One did not carry out the right checks.
Capital One says it carried out an affordability assessment that showed Mrs R had enough
income to afford the credit.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint finding Capital One had not lent
irresponsibly. Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator and issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked the parties to respond with any 
comments or new information by 1 November 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Rs income and expenditure.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Capital One should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors might
include Mrs Rs income, how much the repayments were, the frequency of the borrowing
and how long Mrs R had been indebted.
This means I need to decide if Capital One carried out proportionate checks; if so did it make
a fair lending decision; and if not, what would proportionate checks have shown. Also, did
Capital One act unfairly towards Mrs R in any other way.
I can see Capital One asked for certain information from Mrs R before lending. It asked
about her income, employment, residential status and housing costs. It estimated her living
costs using national statistics. It carried out credit checks to understand her credit history
and current commitments. From these checks combined Capital One concluded Mrs R could
afford a credit card with a limit of £1,500.
I am not persuaded these checks were proportionate given the initial results. One of Capital
Ones credit checks showed Mrs R had defaulted on five accounts between July 2018 and
March 2019. I accept these were somewhat historic, but all accounts still had outstanding
balances, totalling £5,438. I think this information ought to have prompted Capital One to
carry out a fuller financial review to get the assurances it needed that Mrs Rs financial
difficulties had been resolved.
To understand what better checks would most likely have shown I have looked at Mrs Rs
bank statements from the months prior to her application. I am not saying Capital One had to
do exactly this, but it is a reliable way for me to know what a fuller financial review would
have likely shown.
Had Capital One carried out better checks I dont think it would have lent to Mrs R. I say this
as the statements show multiple daily gambling transactions totalling in excess of Mrs Rs
monthly income. In such circumstances of financial instability I do not think it was
responsible of Capital One to extend credit to Mrs R. I cannot see Capital One would have
known, as it was obliged to, that its lending would not cause financial harm for Mrs R.
It follows I currently think Capital One was wrong to lend to Mrs R. I have not seen any 
evidence Capital One acted unfairly towards Mrs R in some other way.
I then set out what Capital One would need to do to put things right. Both parties responded 
to my provisional decision. Mrs R agreed with it. Capital One disagreed, saying it lends to 
people with defaults on their file. And its checks showed Mrs R would have £1,523 
disposable income after accounting for housing and living costs and existing credit 
commitments - so the credit line it offered was affordable for her. It disagrees it needed to 
carry out further checks in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Rs complaint.
I have considered Capital Ones comments carefully but they do not change my decision. I 
will explain why.
The lenders initial checks showed Mrs R had previously defaulted on five accounts and 
these all had balances that remained unsettled. But my finding was not, and is not, that the 
historical defaults should have been a definite reason not to lend. I acknowledge that in 
some circumstances a lender can fairly and responsibly lend to an applicant who has 
previously defaulted on other credit. 
My finding was  and remains - that given the number of defaults, Capital One needed to 
carry out further checks to get the assurances it needed that Mrs Rs finances had stabilised 
and that she could now sustainably afford to take on this credit. 
Capital One argues its checks showed Mrs R had ample disposable income  but its 
assessment was not based on her actual income and outgoings. It relied on national 
averages for expenses and Mrs Rs own declaration of her income. Whilst this may be 
proportionate in some cases, given what Capital One knew about Mrs Rs credit history, I do 
not find this approach to be proportionate here. Indeed the regulatory guidance in CONC 
5.2A.16 (3) states For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 
5.2A.15R, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made 
by the customer without independent evidence.. 
And, for the reasons I set out in the provisional decision that are in the extract above, 
proportionate checks would most likely have shown the credit was not sustainably affordable 
for Mrs R.In summary, I find Capital One was wrong to lend to Mrs R.
Putting things right
Capital One should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs R has paid on her credit card account.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Capital One should reduce the outstanding capital balance
by the amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Capital One should ensure
that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. If the balance has already
been written-off Capital One must not attempt to collect it. But if step 2 leads to a positive
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mrs R and 8% simple interest*
should be added to the surplus.
4. Once Mrs R has cleared any outstanding capital balance, any adverse information
recorded in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Capital One to take off tax from this interest. If it does, Capital 
One must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If it intends 
to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must put things right as set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman