DRN-2930724
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr V complain about the level of service provided by Covea Insurance plc 
following a claim made on their motor insurance policy. Mr V is a named driver on Mrs Vs 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs Vs car was damaged and Covea took it to its approved garage. Covea decided, based 
on the repairs estimate and the cars market value, that the car was beyond economical 
repair. Mr V disagreed with the valuation of the car and this was increased. But Covea still 
said the car was beyond economical repair. 
Mr V wanted to keep the car so Covea eventually agreed to repair the car with a cap on the 
repair costs. Mr V was unhappy with the delays caused in the claim, the size of the courtesy 
car provided and Coveas level of service. Covea offered Mrs V £100 compensation for 
service issues. But Mr V wanted compensation for the delays.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Coveas final valuation of the car was fair and reasonable and made in keeping with our 
approach. She thought Covea had reasonably decided, based on the repairs estimate, that 
the car was beyond economical repair. So she thought it was entitled to not pay for repairs, 
but it had done so to resolve the claim.
The investigator thought Covea wasnt responsible for the delays as these were caused by 
the dispute. She thought the courtesy car was in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions. She thought Coveas level of customer service had been reasonable. And she 
thought its offer of £100 compensation for service issues was fair and reasonable. 
Mr V replied that they agreed that they had received the class of courtesy car they expected. 
He thought Covea should have valued the car correctly in the first instance and then this 
would have avoided a more than ten week delay in the claim. Mrs V and Mr V wanted a 
refund of their premiums for those ten weeks when they were unable to use their car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs V and Mr Vs main concern now is that Coveas inaccurate valuation of 
their car led to ten weeks delay in their claim. This had knock on consequences for their 
convenience, as they had a small courtesy car that didnt suit their needs. And they feel they 
were paying premiums for a car they werent able to use. So Ive started my review by 
looking at the valuation of the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Coveas initial valuation was took low, but she thought its second 
valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she came to these conclusions. I 
can see that she checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, 
age, mileage and condition as Mrs Vs car. 
The average of the valuations she found was in keeping with Coveas final valuation. So I 
agree that it was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly in keeping with our approach.
Mr V thought recent work on the car would increase its value. But I disagree as maintenance 
work keeps the car roadworthy but doesnt increase its market value. 
So I agree that Coveas initial offer for the cars pre-damage market value was too low and I 
think its second valuation was made fairly and reasonably. But I also think that the increase 
in valuation didnt cause Mrs V any loss. 
This is because the car was still deemed to be beyond economical repair based on the 
valuation and the engineers estimated repair costs. I think it was reasonable for Covea to 
rely on this expert estimate as I havent seen any conflicting engineering reports. 
I also think it was reasonable for Covea to consider that further repairs could be needed 
once the car was stripped. And I think Coveas threshold for deciding that the car wasnt 
economical to repair is in keeping with industry standards. And so I cant say that Coveas 
decision to not repair the car was unfair or unreasonable. 
I can see that the reason Covea offered to pay for repairs, up to a price cap, was as a 
gesture of goodwill to resolve the claim. I dont think it was obliged to do this. 
Im satisfied that the reason why there was such a long delay in getting to this point was due 
to the dispute about the valuation and then Mr Vs insistence that he wanted the car to be 
repaired. 
From what I can see, there were about two weeks between the initial and final valuation. I 
dont think this was unreasonable. If Mrs V had accepted the final valuation and the offered 
cash settlement, then she would have been able to replace her car rather than wait for it to 
be repaired. 
I can see that Covea kept Mrs V in hire whilst the dispute continued, and whilst repairs were 
made. So Mrs V wasnt without transport in this time. And Mr V now accepts it was the class 
of courtesy car they expected. So I cant say that Covea has done anything wrong or needs 
to pay Mrs V any compensation for this delay. 
I can see that there was a small delay early in the claim and Mr V found out from another 
party that their car had been deemed to be beyond economical repair. Covea offered Mrs V 
£100 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Mr V was also unhappy with Coveas level of customer service. But I can see that he 
received promised call-backs and responses from Covea. I wouldnt expect Covea to contact 
Mr V unless it had something new to tell him. I can see that Mr V was keen for Covea to 
make a decision on the claim. But I think that all claims include some inconvenience and 
frustration. And I cant see anything further in Coveas handling of the claim that warrants 
redress.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman