DRN-2080265
The complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC put a restriction on her account, to stop any post 
being sent to her. She said that this meant that her new card wasnt issued in time to replace 
the old one.
What happened
Ms J said that Barclays had failed to replace her card, although it was expiring. She 
contacted Barclays, and it said that the problem was because it couldnt send post to her 
address. Ms J said shed never told the bank this, and she wanted to know where it got this 
from. She also said that though Barclays told her it would get her card to her before the old 
one expired, it didnt. She was left without access to her card and money for a few days. 
Barclays said it had put a marker on Ms Js account to say that it wouldnt send any further 
post until it could confirm her address. It does this for security reasons, and to protect 
customers personal data. It knew this had happened in April 2019, but because it was quite 
a while ago, Barclays couldnt be sure why this had been done. It said that it might have 
received some returned post from her address. It had sent a new card in response to her 
request, on 29 April 2020.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought the evidence from 
card eligibility and usage meant that Ms J was without a card from 1 May to 3 May.
Our investigator said Barclays had acted in line with its own policy on returned mail, and lots 
of banks do this, to make sure that information or cards arent issued to an incorrect 
address. She understood that Ms J was disappointed that Barclays couldnt say exactly what 
had happened, but our investigator thought it was plausible that Ms Js mail had just been 
wrongly delivered, then returned. 
Our investigator knew that it was inconvenient for Ms J to be without a card for three days, 
but she didnt think that Ms J had experienced any financial impact. She didnt think that 
Barclays had to pay compensation. Barclays had now removed the marker from Ms Js 
account, and she was receiving online statements. Our investigator didnt think that Barclays 
had to do any more. 
Ms J didnt agree. She said she couldnt get any money over the weekend. Because Ms J 
didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I dont think that Barclays made a mistake by putting a marker on Ms Js account to make 
sure that post wasnt sent to her. I think its most likely that this was because some wrongly 
delivered mail was returned. 
I know Ms J would like to know exactly what happened to cause this marker to be put on her 
account, but Barclays has said it just cant tell us for sure, because the marker had been on 
for a little over a year before Ms J realised. 
Ms J said that she didnt get her new card in time, although Barclays had said she would. 
But I dont think its Barclays fault that happened. And it did act promptly to reissue her card 
when it found out, minimising the amount of time she was left without one. Barclays has told 
us that Ms Js new card was slightly delayed in the post, or she wouldve received it before 
her old one expired. I think that there were likely to be postal delays at this time, and I dont 
think thats Barclays fault.
Ms J told us she was left without money over a weekend. I know its inconvenient to be 
without a card. But it is clear that Ms J knew her old card was expiring. So I think if Ms J had 
needed money for the weekend, she couldve gone into a branch to get some cash. 
Ive considered this complaint carefully, but I dont think that Barclays needs to do more than 
its already done to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So, although Ms 
J will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman