DRN-1658567
 
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about the level of commission received by Santander Cards UK 
Limited (Santander) on her payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss T took out a store card before 6 April 2007 and it appears she was sold PPI in 
connection with this card. Miss T complained to Santander about the level of commission it 
received on her PPI. She then brought her complaint to this service.
Although Miss T paid PPI premiums before 6 April 2007, Santander said that Miss T hadnt 
paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007 and so it didnt have to pay her any 
compensation.
Our adjudicator considered Miss Ts complaint but didnt think Miss Ts complaint should be 
upheld. They explained that we can only look at whether Santander treated Miss T unfairly 
about commission from 6 April 2007 and as it didnt look like Miss T had paid any PPI 
premiums after 6 April 2007, they didnt think Santander had to refund any of the 
commission Miss T paid.
Miss T disagreed with the adjudicator and so the complaint has now come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit share 
Santander (as the lender) got due to the PPI.
why 6 April 2007 is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to do so. The rules we follow 
(set out in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook) give a list of activities that we can 
look at complaints about.
Before 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some consumer credit activities, 
including complaints about store cards. On 6 April 2007 our powers were extended and 
complaints about store cards, like Miss Ts, became something we could look at. But only 
about things that happened on, or after 6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case, to look at what happened before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened from 6 April 2007 onwards.
what does this mean for Miss T.
This means that I can only look at whether Santander treated Miss T unfairly in relation 
to the commission and profit share it received after 6 April 2007  and not before. 
Santander has provided a screen shot of its system which shows that Miss T was last 
charged for PPI in December 2005. 
Santander has said that Miss T wasnt charged any PPI premiums after this date so no 
commission was received. So as Miss T didnt pay anything, there is nothing for it to 
consider giving back.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and in the absence of any evidence from Miss T to show 
otherwise, I think its unlikely Miss T paid any PPI premiums after 6 April 2007. That 
means I cant tell Santander to pay Miss T back any of the commission or profit share she 
paid for the PPI sold with her store card.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman