DRN-1664561
The complaint
Mr G complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added 
to Mr G's credit card account when he applied for the card online. The PPI covered Mr G 
if he couldn't work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Canada Square hadn't done enough to explain the costs and benefits of the policy. And 
that, if it had done, Mr G wouldn't have taken the policy.
Canada Square didn't agree. It said, in summary, that Mr G hadn't provided proof of 
the savings he held at the point of sale and that hed been inconsistent about the 
amount of savings he held.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Canada Square didnt recommend the policy to Mr G, so it didnt have to make sure it was 
suitable for him. But it did have to provide him with information which was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was 
buying.
The PPI was sold online. Canada Square has provided me with sample screenshots 
setting out the steps Mr G would have undertaken during the application process. Looking 
at the information he would have seen, it looks as though the basic cost of the cover would 
have been set out. But I cant see that he would have been told that he would have had to 
pay interest on his premiums if he didnt repay his balance in full or that he would have 
had to keep paying the premiums in the event of a claim. These matters are important as 
they mean the PPI could have been more expensive than originally presented.
So the question for me now is whether Mr G would have acted differently if Canada 
Square had told him everything it should have done about the cover. To help me decide 
what hes likely to have done, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the PPI. And Ive also looked at what Mr G told us about his personal circumstances at 
the time.
I can see that if Mr G had had to make a claim on the PPI policy, because he'd 
become unwell or lost his job, 10% of his credit card balance would have been repaid.
Mr G told us that he would have received six months full sick pay and six months half 
sick pay and that, combined with his savings, he would have been able to continue to 
meet his credit card repayments if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. I've 
considered this very carefully, particularly as Mr G hasn't been able to provide evidence 
of his savings and also because he's provided some conflicting testimony.
He's been able to provide some limited evidence of the savings he had in or around 
2004. And he has a clear recollection that he had three building society accounts and a 
regular savings habit. I dont doubt what he says about this. And this persuades me that 
he had savings equivalent of between six to 12 months' worth of his salary.
Ive taken into account that Mr G told the bank he only had between three and six 
months' worth of savings. But he wasn't sure about the date of the sale when he said 
this. And, in any event, I dont find it surprising that he doesnt have a clear memory of 
exactly what savings he had more than 15 years ago.
So overall, and on balance, I accept it's more likely than not that Mr G didn't need the PPI 
because of his existing arrangements. Taking this into account, I dont think he would have 
bought the PPI if Canada Square had told him everything it should have done about the 
cost of the cover.
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. Canada Square should find out how much Mr G would have owed when he 
closed his credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused 
by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges.
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed 
when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mr G would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it 
until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Canada Square works out what Mr G would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr G paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada Square 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mr G wouldve owed Canada Square something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Canada Square should tell Mr G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. 
Canada Square must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Canada Square Operations Limited 
should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
 
Ombudsman