DRN-4138965
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) irresponsibly granted him 
a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr P acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Santander. Mr P was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £424.57, having paid a 
deposit of £500. The total repayable under the agreement was £25,974.20.
In 2022 Santander started court proceedings against Mr P to recover the car after Mr P had 
fallen behind with his payments. An order was made by the court for the car to be returned 
but it was set aside in November 2022, with an order for the consumer to pay the 
outstanding balance by instalments. 
Mr P says Santander didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Santander didnt agree. It said it had 
carried out a thorough assessment which included carrying out a credit and identity checks. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Santander didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said we hadnt properly taken his financial circumstances into 
consideration. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Santander says it carried out an identity and credit check before granting the finance. But as 
it hasnt sent us details of those checks, I cant see what if any, steps it took to verify Mr Ps 
income before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly 
repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for 
Santander to have taken such a step to ensure it was affordable.
I also dont know if Santander asked Mr P about his expenditure. Although it did complete a 
credit check, which didnt show any defaults or other issues of concern in his recent financial 
history, this wont have indicated what Mr Ps regular living expenses were. Without knowing 
what Mr Ps regular monthly commitments were, Santander wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mr P would have told Santander had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Santander needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in the statements 
Mr P has sent us, covering the three months leading up to the agreement. This is helpful to 
gain a reasonable idea of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
I see our adjudicator looked at these bank statements but Ive also reviewed them myself. I 
agree that broadly speaking, the information shown in the statements suggests that the 
agreement was affordable for Mr P at the time he took it out. Ive noted that the account was 
generally managed well and that Mr P did not find it necessary to make frequent use of any 
emergency or overdraft borrowing. Ive also seen that Mr Ps monthly income averaged out 
at around £1,700 per month. Whilst I agree that there is evidence of sums being transferred 
out of the account, there is no clear indication that Mr P may have been getting into financial 
difficulty during this time. I cant say from what Ive seen that Mr Ps finances were 
deteriorating such that Santander ought to have been alerted to the possibility that he didnt 
have adequate disposable income to meet the repayments required under the agreement. 
Mr P says he had other additional expenses at the time. He says he was repaying a loan for 
another car and also suggests we havent taken account of his housing costs and living 
expenses. I can see that Mr P was paying a regular sum to his own bank which appears to 
be the amount he was paying for an existing loan agreement. Mr P also suggests he was 
aware the sums showing his income on his bank statement werent necessarily accurate 
because he wanted his income to look higher so he would be accepted for the finance. But I 
can only reach a finding based on what I think Santander was likely to have seen had it 
carried out more detailed enquires  to gain a better idea of Mr Ps financial circumstances. 
Taking all of this into account, I agree that the agreement appears to have been affordable to 
Mr P. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Santander acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman