DRN-3848172
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about Financial & Legal Insurance Company Limiteds (Ill refer to
FLIC) decision to reject their claim under an After the Event (ATE) legal expenses
insurance policy.
Mr P and Mrs P are legally represented in this complaint.
What happened
The parties are aware of the background, so Ill summarise the main points that sit behind
the dispute.
Mr P and Mrs P were involved in litigation re the purchase of a holiday accommodation
product (Fractional Property Ownership Club (FPOC)) around 2014. In 2019 they sought to
sell back their FPOC rights but were told this wasnt possible. However, later that year
solicitors on their behalf sent a letter of claim setting out several allegations regarding the
sale.
Mr and Mrs P took out ATE insurance through the legal representative to cover their legal
expenses and those of the defendant in the event they lost their case. After trial and a Court
judgement Mr P and Mrs P became liable for significant costs, but FLIC voided the policy 
and
rejected their claim primarily on the following basis:
Mr and Mrs P abandoned five of eight misrepresentation claims at the start of the 
trial, which seriously undermined the credibility of the case.
The remaining three misrepresentation claims were fundamentally undermined 
through inconsistency in the pleaded case and cross-examination at trial.
Additional claims and arguments were made at trial but not pleaded beforehand, 
which seriously undermined the credibility of the case.
Overall, Mr and Mrs P hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator thought FLIC had acted fairly. He explained it was reasonable for FLIC to 
rely on the Court judgment in which the judge referred to all the points upon which FLIC
based its decision. He pointed to parts of the policy in particular clause 6.2 which says FLIC
can void the policy:
where there has been any non-disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue
statements made by the Insured prior to and after Inception or at any time during the course
of the Proceedings.
Overall, he said it was reasonable for FLIC to conclude the Judge believed Mr and Mrs P 
were presenting a misrepresentation of material facts and untrue statements, and so void 
the policy and refuse the claim. Mr and Mrs P disagree and asked for an Ombudsman to
make a decision.
To summarise Mr and Mrs Ps position:
they do not accept their statements at trial were at significant variance from the 
statements of case.
there were no findings of dishonesty or exaggeration or fabrication of evidence.
while most misrepresentation points werent argued at trial its not uncommon to 
hone the arguments at trial.
withdrawing allegations at trial that are unlikely to succeed is a sensible tactical 
decision.
Provisional Decision
I issued a provisional decision last month because I was giving more details than the 
investigator as to why I wasnt persuaded the complaint should be upheld. The parties were 
given two weeks to respond. I havent been presented with a reply from either party. In my 
provisional decision I explained the following:
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time.
In this complaint the policy terms and conditions form the basis of the contractual 
relationship between Mr and Mrs P and FLIC. Given the legal representative apparently sold 
and recommended the policy to Mrs and Mr P I think its fair to conclude they would be 
familiar with those terms.
As FLIC treated the policy as if it never existed by declaring it void, the main decision I need 
to make concerns whether that was, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable. In doing 
so, Im mindful of FLICs duties under ICOBS as well as general principles including that of 
treating customers fairly.
For the avoidance of doubt, my role is not to review the merits of the court outcome or reach 
my own decision on the merits of Mr and Mrs Ps case against the defendant. My 
determination concerns whether, in my opinion, FLIC has applied its insurance policy terms 
fairly in deciding to void it and refuse indemnity to Mr and Mrs P.
In its final response, FLIC reasoned its decision to void Mr and Mrs Ps policy citing several 
clauses, which can be summarised as:
3.11 - excludes indemnity where proceedings have, in FLICs opinion, been 
conducted in such a manner to have prejudiced the insurers position.
4.2 - the insured and the appointed representative undertake to keep FLIC informed 
of all material developments in the proceedings.
4.3 - requirement to notify FLIC of any fact, evidence or other matter materially 
affecting or might affect the insureds prospects of success in the proceedings in 
writing within 14 days of such discovery.
6.1 - concerns if the authorised representative and / or the insured is found to have 
acted dishonestly or adverse findings as to credibility and honesty are made by a 
court, FLIC can void the policy.6.2 - FLIC is entitled to void the policy where theres been any non-disclosure or 
misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements made by the insured prior to 
and after inception or any time during proceedings.
Ill start with the policys terms and conditions about misrepresentation and for ease copy 
that belowwith my findings following:
6. NON-DISCLOSURE, MISREPRESENTATION AND FRAUD
6.1 For the avoidance of doubt, if the Appointed Representative and/or the Insured is found 
to have acted dishonestly or adverse findings as to credibility and honesty are made by a 
court, The Insurer reserves the right to void the Policy ab initio.
FLICs position is that it doesnt accept there needs to be an adverse finding of honesty and 
credibility. FLIC says an adverse finding against credibility is enough for paragraph 6.1 to be 
satisfied. I disagree and will explain why.
The way 6.1 is worded, in my view, shows that a finding of dishonesty will always be 
sufficient, but the second limb regarding adverse findings made by the court must relate to 
credibility and honesty. FLIC is responsible for how 6.1 is drafted and if adverse findings on 
credibility alone would be sufficient then it could easily have drafted the clause in that way. 
All it needed to do was omit the words and honesty.
Ive reassured myself on this point by honesty and credibility are distinguishable in their 
meaning. Honesty, I think, connotes matters of truth and moral standards whereas credibility 
is about being believable, plausible or even convincing. Dishonesty can still be believable, 
plausible or convincing whereas simply being honest may not be perceived as being 
believable, plausible or convincing. In most trials one partys evidence is usually found to be 
more credible (persuasive, convincing or plausible) than the other side, but that doesnt 
mean theres a lack of honesty in the losing partys evidence. Witnesses may give evidence 
they genuinely believe is correct only to reassess that or accept its mistaken when 
challenged.
6.2 The Insurer shall be entitled to void the Policy ab initio where there has been any non-
disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements made by the Insured 
prior to and after Inception or at any time during the course of the Proceedings.
Under this clause, FLICs entitlement to void a policy is conditional on there being any non-
disclosure or misrepresentation of material facts or untrue statements made by Mr or Mrs P 
before or after Inception, which I take to relate to the insurance policy, or at any time during 
the course of proceedings.
Its apparent that at the start of the trial Mr and Mrs P abandoned five of eight alleged 
misrepresentations originally pleaded. Those alleged misrepresentations would have been 
the basis of the prospects of success assessment (required to be 60% or more) that meant 
funding was in place. And indeed, misrepresentations were fundamental to another part of 
the litigation, that being an unfair relationship. FLIC hasnt accepted that the dropping of 
most of the misrepresentation allegations were merely a tactic to hone arguments at trial. I 
think thats a reasonable conclusion for FLIC to reach and will explain why.
The majority of Mr and Mrs Ps allegations were dropped at trial. In paragraphs 2 & 3 of the 
Court judgment its explained that the particulars of claim set out five main causes of action. 
But at trial Mr and Mrs Ps claim was limited by them (through their Counsel) to two causes 
of action with one further claim added. Given they withdrew or decided not to pursue five of 
the eight alleged misrepresentations, Im satisfied that FLIC reasonably relied on the Court judgement that these were material to the factual matrix of the proposed claim that FLIC had 
agreed to underwrite. And I am satisfied that this prejudiced FLIC. Its apparent that the 
dropping of those allegations wasnt disclosed to FLIC, and they were of significance such 
that the threshold of 60% or more prospects of success may not have been satisfied. That 
was a denied opportunity to review prospects and potentially in contravention of clauses 4.1 
and 4.2 of the policy. Given the significance its highly questionable as to why those 
representations were made to start with and maintained right up to the trial date.
Of the remaining alleged misrepresentations, judicial commentary is found at paragraph 42 
onwards of the judgment. The judge made several references to evidential inconsistencies 
between Mr and Mrs P given at trial as well as being inconsistent with their particulars of 
claim. A fundamental inconsistency arose where at trial they conceded their belief that theyd 
been told by the defendant the value of their investment could go up, was in fact based on 
their view and experience of property values rather than any express assertions made to 
them by the defendant. This allegation was a fundamental tenet of the case against the 
defendant and so reasonably questionable as to why such an allegation would be made 
when clearly Mr and Mrs P conceded no such representation had been made to them. As 
such, Im satisfied FLIC reasonably concluded Mr and Mrs P had, at best, misrepresented
material facts.
Paragraph 54 deals with Mrs Ps evidence, which was remarked to be significantly different 
to Mr Ps and the pleaded case. And it was noted that no allegation about a 
misrepresentation of selling back ownership was detailed in the letter of claim from their 
solicitors, nor did Mr P make any reference to this when he original enquired about selling 
back to the defendant and being told it wasnt possible before proceedings.
Taking all this into account Im satisfied FLIC fairly concluded that there were 
misrepresentations of material facts or untrue statements made by Mr and / or Mrs P before 
and / or after policy inception and / or during the course of proceedings. While its the nature 
of a trial that evidence is tested, and it may not meet that which was originally asserted, the 
Court findings are of such significance that it is reasonable, in my opinion, for FLIC to 
conclude they were material and misrepresented by Mr and Mrs P.
While I have so far focussed on paragraph 6 of the insurance policy, of which Im satisfied 
6.2 enabled FLIC to void the policy and decline cover, I will make brief comment on the other 
matters FLIC cited:
3.11 excludes indemnity where proceedings have, in FLICs opinion, been conducted 
in such a manner to have prejudiced the insurers position.
oIts very clear from the judgment that what was presented at trial was 
considerably different to what was pleaded, and Ive explained above why 
that prejudiced FLICs position. 
oNotwithstanding the above point, abandoning most of the misrepresentation 
claims and introducing new claims and arguments not previously pleaded, all 
at trial, were clearly prejudicial to the case being litigated and therefore FLICs 
position as underwriter given it deprived FLIC of any opportunity to reassess 
prospects of success.
4.2 the insured and the appointed representative undertake to keep FLIC informed of 
all material developments in the proceedings.
oLike 3.11 above, the significant change in trial tactic wasnt communicated to 
FLIC, and given the judgment alludes to the fact this was clarified at the 
opening of the trial it seems to me that this was a pre-determined tactic which 
Id expect the solicitor as the authorised representative to have informed 
FLIC.4.3 requirement to notify FLIC of any fact, evidence or other matter materially 
affecting or might affect the insureds prospects of success in the proceedings in 
writing within 14 days of such discovery. 
oSee points above at 3.11 and 4.2
The legal representatives say the issue here is whether the claim had a realistic prospect of 
success at the inception of the policy and up to trial, and its Mr and Mrs Ps case that such 
prospects were met throughout. And while prospects go up and down as evidence is 
provided the prospects did not drop below the outline figure (that is 60% or more). The 
challenge here though is that the prospects of success assessment was based on all the 
allegations and alleged misrepresentations made by Mr and Mrs P, most of which were 
dropped at trial seemingly without explanation or forewarning to FLIC, other than about 
honing arguments. And one of the only three misrepresentations taken forward about being 
told the product value would only increase was conceded by Mr and Mrs P to have been 
wrong and based on their own view and experience. All the allegations were seemingly 
material to the cases prospects of success, and so Im satisfied FLIC fairly considered there 
to be misrepresentations of material facts by Mr and Mrs P. Most of what they originally
alleged was either dropped or accepted by them not to have actually happened. This
limited the scope of their original case and pleadings. 
Contrary to what the legal representative has said, I dont agree that the Court outcome was 
simply based on the defendants evidence being preferred. Such an assertion undermines 
and overlooks the reality that a large part of the pleaded case was dropped and so the Court 
wasnt required, or indeed asked, to assess those parts of Mr and Mrs Ps case. And indeed, 
the defendant wasnt required to make any defence against the dropped allegations.
Having considered the complaint very carefully, Im satisfied that FLIC acted fairly in
voiding the policy and declining the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been presented with any further information from either party and, having reviewed 
the available information again, Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome to that in my 
provisional decision as detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, and detailed above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman