DRN-3072426
The complaint
Mr S complains about his mortgage with Santander UK Plc. He complains that it didnt offer 
him assistance when he was unwell. He complains that it didnt offer him a new, lower 
interest rate and wouldnt let him convert his mortgage to repayment terms.
What happened
Mr S took out his mortgage in 2005. Although part of the balance was on repayment terms, 
most of it was interest only.
After taking the mortgage out, Mr S began to experience financial difficulty and the mortgage 
fell into arrears.
In 2012, Mr S was diagnosed with a serious illness. He says he asked for assistance at that 
time to help him through his illness and associated payment difficulties, but Santander didnt 
help him.
In 2013, the fixed interest rate came to an end and Mr Ss mortgage reverted to Santanders 
standard variable rate (SVR). It stayed on the SVR until 2019.
In 2016, the mortgage arrears were capitalised. In 2019, Mr S converted the interest only 
part of the mortgage to repayment terms and took a new three year fixed rate.
Mr S complained that Santander hadnt treated him fairly or taken account of his vulnerability 
in 2012. He said he had been kept on the SVR too long, and that Santander hadnt been 
willing to convert the mortgage to repayment terms before 2019.
Santander said that Mr Ss mortgage had been in arrears for some time. He had said he 
might need to go bankrupt in 2010, and in 2011 arrangements to pay broke down. Santander 
therefore instructed its solicitors to take possession of the property. In 2012, Mr S told 
Santander of his diagnosis, so Santander put the account on hold and asked Mr S for 
medical evidence. When no medical evidence was received, litigation re-started. Santander 
said that without medical evidence it was unable to help Mr S.
Santander said that it agreed to capitalise the arrears in 2016. But it was for Mr S to apply for 
a new rate if he wanted one, and he didnt do so until 2019. It had made him aware that he 
was on the SVR and that it was up to him to get in touch and ask for a new rate.
Santander said that the complaint was out of time, because the litigation and Mr Ss ill health 
was more than six years before he complained  as was his mortgage moving off the old 
fixed rate onto the SVR.
I recently issued a decision in which I said that we could consider what had happened with 
Mr Ss mortgage and how Santander had treated him  but only for the six years leading up 
to his complaint.
In this decision, Ill set out my findings on the part of the complaint I said we could consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the health difficulties Mr S has had, and all that hes been through. 
Im sure its not been an easy time.
I explained in my jurisdiction decision that we could only consider things that had happened 
in the six years before Mr S complained, from late 2013 onwards.
By this time, Mr Ss mortgage had already reverted to the SVR and  largely because of his 
health  he had been struggling to make the payments for some time. The SVR was actually 
lower than his previous fixed rate.
Once a borrower is on the SVR, its up to them to ask for a new rate  theres no obligation 
on a lender to pro-actively offer one. Theres no evidence that Mr S asked for a new rate 
between 2013 and when he took one in 2019.
Even if he had asked, its unlikely that Santander would have given Mr S a rate between 
2013 and 2016. Thats because his mortgage was in arrears at this point. Santander doesnt 
generally offer new rates to customers in arrears, and there are good reasons for that  not 
least that a customer in arrears is more likely to bring the mortgage to an end (either through 
sale of the property or repossession) and doing so would incur a substantial early repayment 
charge.
However, there are circumstances where offering a new rate is the best way to help a 
borrower in financial difficulties  despite the early repayment charge  and Ive thought 
about whether thats the case here. One example of where thats appropriate might be 
where the rate makes the difference between the mortgage being affordable and 
unaffordable.
Theres no record of Mr S asking for a new rate between 2013 and 2016, though there are 
records of other discussions about his mortgage and the arrears. Santander looked at Mr Ss 
financial situation and asked about his health  though Mr S wasnt willing to share medical 
evidence  and it took that into account. I dont think giving Mr S a new rate at this time 
would have resolved the issues he was having with the mortgage. And I think Santander 
acted fairly and supportively in other ways, taking into account Mr Ss difficult situation  for 
example, it allowed the arrears to build up without taking formal legal action (which it would 
likely have done in other cases). Although it referred the case to its solicitors, it did not in the 
end seek to repossess the property. It asked for reasonable information. And it agreed to 
capitalise the arrears in 2016.
Once the arrears were capitalised, Mr S was no longer in arrears. And hes been able to 
keep up with the mortgage since. He would then have been eligible for a new interest rate, 
but again theres no record of him having asked for one until 2019 when Santander agreed a 
new rate.
As I say, its up to the borrower to ask for a new rate. On balance, Im satisfied that 2019 
was the first time Mr S asked, and he was then given a new rate. Theres no obligation for 
Santander to pro-actively invite Mr S to apply, and it set out how he could do so on the 
annual statements. I dont think it acted unfairly or kept Mr S on the SVR unreasonably.Also in 2019, Mr S applied to convert the mortgage from interest only to repayment. Its good 
that he was thinking about how the mortgage would be repaid and what steps he could take 
to do so. 
Im satisfied Santander gave his application fair consideration. Changing from interest only to 
repayment means Mr S would start paying back the capital as well as the interest, and so his 
contractual monthly payments would go up. It was therefore reasonable for Santander to 
think about whether that was affordable for him. And in making that decision, it needed to 
look at all his circumstances, including his other commitments.
Santander noted that Mr S had recently taken on other unsecured debt, and was concerned 
about whether this would make the increased mortgage payments unaffordable  and 
whether this was a sign that Mr S might be about to experience financial difficulties again.
This was a reasonable concern. I dont think it was unfair for Santander to decide not to 
convert the mortgage to repayment at that point, tying Mr S into making higher payments 
every month. And I can see that Mr S also spoke to a broker around this time to discuss 
moving his mortgage elsewhere and increasing his borrowing  but the broker advised that 
would be difficult for similar reasons.
Mr Ss representative has said that the payments on repayment terms would be higher than 
they are now  though slightly lower than they were when Mr S was on the SVR. So I can 
understand why they think it doesnt seem sensible to say its unaffordable when he was 
paying more before 2019. However, its part of the rules of mortgage regulation that an 
affordability calculation looks not only at the current interest rate but also what rates might 
rise to in the future  known as the stress test  because its a long term commitment. And 
that includes rates rising above what the SVR currently is. It wouldnt be right to tie Mr S in 
for the long term without being sure it was affordable were rates to rise.
Mr S can still make overpayments to reduce the balance of his mortgage while it remains on 
interest only terms  but hes not contractually committed to paying more. This gives him 
more flexibility if his finances tighten. And its open to him to make a new application to 
convert to repayment at any time. So he can still take steps to improve his situation.
I do understand that Mr S has had a difficult time in recent years, and hes now concerned 
about how hes going to repay his mortgage if it remains on interest only terms. And that he 
thinks things would have been different had he been on a lower interest rate earlier on, and if 
he had been able to switch to repayment terms. And Ive taken all that into account. But Im 
not persuaded that Santander has acted unfairly in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman