DRN-3240381
The complaint
Mr P complains about the compensation offered by Interactive Investor Services Limited
(the business) in relation to the poor service provided.
In short, Mr P doesnt think the business has put him in the position he wouldve been in but
for its errors.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 9 December 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint. For 
the record, I dont think the business behaved reasonably in dealing with Mr Ps request to 
withdraw his money and close the account.
Because the business has upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress, 
and whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it
should pay Mr P £350 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. I 
note the business has also offered to refund the account fees  in the sum of £151.73  to
resolve this complaint.
In the circumstances, I dont think the business is responsible for Mr P choosing to convert
his currency, in order to withdraw the funds and close the account. On balance Im satisfied
that he did so of his own volition.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. My role isnt to simply accept
everything the business says, but neither is it to be a consumer champion.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, I think all the pertinent points that could be made have been made by Mr P,
in relation to the service hes received and what he thinks the business should do to put
things right. Its not necessary for me to repeat them in order to make a decision in this case.
Im mindful that this complaint arises out of Mr Ps request to withdraw his money and close
the account because he wasnt happy with the new charges and the way that he was notified
about them. Hes also unhappy about the businesss request for information that delayed the
closure of his account.
I appreciate the business accepts that it provided inaccurate information to Mr P  that
added to his confusion  which is in the main the basis of its uphold. However, I think it 
couldve done more to ensure that he was provided with clear, accurate and up to date
information.
Based on the chronology of events, it seems the VOI issue arose out of a periodic review of
Mr Ps account, prior to him making the request to withdraw his money and close his
account. It seems the business was unable to verify his identity - which it said maybe was
due to a change in his name or address - and consequently, a temporary block was placed
on his account. Im mindful Mr P maintains none of his details changed, nevertheless I dont
think the business was wrong to ask him to update/confirm his details.
I think based on the wording of the letter, and the timing of Mr Ps response  which was
after his request to close his account  he assumed that all he had to do was to provide the
VOI and a copy of his bank statement to resolve the outstanding issue.
Whilst I appreciate what the business says about the VOI being a separate matter, given the
timing of Mr Ps request and response to the VOI, I think the business couldve done more to
make clear to him, from the outset, that there were other reasons why it still couldnt carry
out his instructions, as a way of managing his expectations. So, when Mr P provided the VOI
form, and the block was lifted, he wouldve known that his instructions still couldnt be
actioned.
Instead it seems Mr P was given answers to his enquiries that werent correct, for example
he was told that he couldnt withdraw his money because the currency exchange hadnt
settled. This wasnt the case and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it ever was.
Despite what the business says, I dont think it needed to have conducted a full review of
Mr Ps account in order to provide him with this information. In any case, on balance I think
this key information shouldve been more readily available to Mr P.
I understand why a business might require a customer to provide EDDQ and SOW forms,
especially in response to instructions to withdraw a reasonably large sum of money  Im
aware of a businesss obligations under the anti-money laundering regulations. However, in
this instance Im aware that the business was asking for documentation that Mr P had
already provided, and on balance it ought not to have asked for this  and certainly not
before checking to see that these documents hadnt been provided.
I note the business says that Mr P denied receiving these requests in 2015 and thats why it
didnt check its archive, and that he couldve just responded to the request in 2020. But I
dont see why Mr P shouldve been obliged to provide documentation that the business
already had. Despite what the business says, I note Mr P repeatedly made clear that he
could trade between 2015 and 2020, which ought reasonably to have triggered the business
into checking its records/archives better - because Mr P wouldntve have been able to trade
without having submitted the relevant documents. Especially so, because the business took
over from a predecessor business in 2017.
Unfortunately, it seems Mr P and the business got caught up in ever increasing
correspondence around peripheral issues, whilst the main issue remained outstanding until
very recently.Despite what the business says in its recent response about the purpose of the SOW, I
dont agree that it was necessary for Mr P to provide this information again, and therefore I
dont think the delays in closing his account were wholly justified. Im aware that in due
course his account was closed as per his initial instructions, without him having to provide
any further documentation. But despite what Mr P says, I also dont think the business was
trying to cover its tracks.
Im aware that the business has recently offered to pay Mr P £250 compensation for the
trouble and upset caused. But I think it should pay him £350 for the overall distress and
inconvenience caused by the numerous inaccurate responses and delay.
Notwithstanding the businesss behaviour, Im satisfied that in March 2020 Mr P chose, of
his own volition and without any advice or guidance from the business, to convert his
currency. Despite what he now says about the (purported) block on his account, and what he
could and couldnt do, I still dont think the business is responsible for his decision to convert
his currency.
In other words, the business isnt responsible for putting Mr P back in the position he
wouldve been in, but for his decision to convert his money. This isnt a basis for our service
to award redress, and theres no financial loss arising out of any wrongdoing by the
business.
I note Mr Ps adamant that the initial block couldnt have been working because he was still
able to covert his currency, which he insists is a form of forex trading. But despite what he
says, I note that the initial block only refers to him buying shares  it specifically prevented
any purchases  it didnt stop him from converting his currency, which I dont think is the
same thing.
Despite what Mr P says, forex trading is effectively a trade that bets on currency going up
(long trade) or going down (short trade) in value, in other words, speculating for profit. In the
circumstances converting his currency from pounds to euros isnt the same thing.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the account operated in
a way that was contrary to the block. In other words, I agree with the business that this was
a legitimate transaction, carried out as per Mr Ps instructions.
Based on what the business says, it seems it was also possible for Mr P to pay the money
into his account  in a different currency  so, it wasnt necessary for him to convert the
currency before doing so.
Im mindful of the point Mr P makes about the account fees. The charges were a matter for
the business to impose in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement.
Its not for us to tell a business how much it should charge for its services. Despite what Mr P
says, on balance I dont think its method of online notification through secure message on
the account was unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr P has his own ideas about what he thinks the business ought to have done 
in terms of an urgent message/notification taking him to the email  but I dont think the
business has done anything wrong by not doing so.
The fact that Mr P might receive between 100-150 email messages a day (possibly going
through his junk mail), or the fact he thinks the email doesnt look genuine, isnt a justification
for the business to treat him any differently to other customers.
I appreciate Mr Ps concerned about what wouldve happened if the fees were much higherand hed missed the email. But Im only concerned with the facts as they are and, in the
circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong. I dont think it was
necessary for the business to do more to ensure he read these emails and I dont think its
behaved unreasonably in relying on him to read messages it sent.
In any case, I note the business, to resolve this complaint has offered to refund the new
account fees in the sum of £151.73  although its not entirely clear how the business has
come to that figure.
Im mindful of Mr Ps points about the business not being able to provide a historic log of his
trades, from before the business took over. I note the business has provided a list of the
trades but has been unable to do so from when his account was with the business that
existed before the predecessor business. In the circumstances I dont think the businesses
inability to do so is unreasonable.
The above notwithstanding, Im aware that the business (post view), closed Mr Ps account 
but I dont think it was wrong to do so, given that Mr P initially said he didnt use the account,
was unhappy with the fees, and instructed the business to close it. However, the business is
still providing conflicting information about why the account was closed.
In any case, Im aware that the business has since reinstated the account as per Mr Ps
recent wishes, but he hasnt, yet put any money into it.
Im mindful that the business has made clear that this doesnt mean it might not in the future
take reasonable steps to close these accounts. And Mr P ought to be aware that he may
have to pay charges moving forward, but these are matters hell have to discuss with the
business in due course.
I appreciate that some efforts were made by our service to try and resolve this complaint,
including informally, but they werent fruitful. I know Mr P is unhappy about the way that this
complaint has been investigated and has raised several issues in a service complaint. But
thats not something I can consider in this complaint. If Mr P remains unhappy with the
outcome of any service complaint, hes able to refer the matter to the Independent Assessor
(the IA).
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
only going to ask the business to award redress as set out below.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint
and give Mr P what he wants.
In the circumstances, I think Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr P £350
compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
I note Interactive Investor Services Limited has also offered to refund the account fees in the
sum of £151.73, which I would expect it to pay..
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
The business responded and agreed with my provisional decision. It provided no further 
submissions. 
Mr P also responded, and initially said: 
Many thanks for your letter of 09-12-2021. I will have a quick chat with Interactive Investor 
Services Ltd, with a view to resolving the matter. If they are reasonable it will be resolved, 
always bearing in mind that reasonableness is subjective.
Most likely I will be replying to your decision by 06-01-2022, if nothing else to clarify some 
issues.
If it is possible please use my full name in the decision and for this you have my permission 
to do so..
Subsequently, in a response dated 5 January 2022, Mr P said that the good news is that he 
has decided to accept the payment of £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. However, he thinks its fair that hes reimbursed the charges incurred 
between 18 March 2020 (when he tried to close the account), and 15 September 2021 
(when the business transferred the account to his bank). 
In short, he will accept a sum of £251.64 as a refund of the charges/account fees he 
believes he is owed according to his calculations. The account fees that I referred to in my 
provisional decision is only part of the account fees owed. If I dont agree with him, hell have 
to submit another complaint. 
Mr P went on to detail what he called the bad news. He felt that the investigator had 
deliberately withheld information from him. He is considering reporting her to the Board of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for unprofessional behaviour. He also felt that the 
ombudsman manager shouldnt have been involved in the investigation owing to the 
obvious conflict of interest which came to fruition when he (the ombudsman manager), in 
response to a service complaint, concluded that the investigator hadnt done anything wrong. 
 
Mr P also reiterated that he wanted me to use his full name in my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr P, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still think the business should pay Mr P £350 
compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. I also note the business 
offered to refund the account fees  in the sum of £151.73  to resolve this complaint.
I note that Mr P has accepted the £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, however he is still unhappy with the £151.73 refund of charges. 
In my provisional decision I made clear that the charges were a matter for the business to 
impose in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement. Its not for us to 
tell a business how much it should charge for its services. Despite what Mr P says, on 
balance I still dont think its method of online notification through secure message on the 
account was unreasonable.   
So, whilst I appreciate that Mr P wants a refund of the fees paid, at £13.98 a month  from 
when he instructed the business to close his account to when his account was closed  I 
dont think what the business has offered is unreasonable to try and resolve this complaint. 
Despite what Mr P says, there was no guarantee that the business wouldve been able close 
his account immediately in any case. 
I understand that Mr P would like me to use his full name in my final decision, and that he 
has no issue with my (purportedly) doing so, rather than using his initial. But despite his 
wishes, Im afraid for reasons of privacy and anonymity  so far as complainants rather than 
financial businesses are concerned  Im unable to use his full name in my decision. Despite 
what Mr P says, I see no reason to depart from our usual policy and practice on this matter. 
Im sure Mr P will be aware that confidentiality is the cornerstone of our practice and I see no 
reason to treat him any differently to our customers, despite him wishing me to use his full 
name.    
Im mindful of Mr Ps additional comments about the investigator and the ombudsman 
manager, I know Mr P is unhappy about the way that this complaint has been 
investigated/handled, but thats not something I can consider in this complaint. As Ive said in 
my provisional decision, if Mr P remains unhappy with the outcome of any service complaint, 
hes able to refer the matter to the Independent Assessor (the IA).  
Putting things right
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr P £350 compensation for the overall 
distress and inconvenience caused.
I note Interactive Investor Services Limited has also offered to refund the account fees in the
sum of £151.73, which I would expect it to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
Interactive Investor Services Limited should pay Mr P redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman