DRN-3476832
The complaint
Mr M complains that Artisan Financial Limited gave unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) , or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M approached Artisan to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Artisan wasnt 
authorised by the regulator to give DB pension transfer advice. So, it referred Mr M to 
another company, which Ill refer to as Firm I, to give him advice concerning his DB scheme 
pension.
Mr M, who was accompanied by his brother  as he was in a similar position  met with an 
adviser from Firm I to discuss his options. An adviser from Artisan was present at that 
meeting. 
In January 2018 Firm I produced a Pension Transfer Initial Assessment and Summary 
Sheet. It later followed that with a suitability report recommending Mr M transfer his DB 
pension benefits to a personal pension. Under a heading of Service proposition and reviews 
the suitability report said:
We have performed this pension transfer review and report on behalf of your financial 
adviser, [name of adviser] of Artisan Financial Planning. Once the transfer of funds has been 
fully implemented [name of Artisans adviser] will transfer this plan to his agency with the 
[personal pension provider] and will take on the servicing of your ongoing advice.
In 2021 Mr M complained to Artisan about the suitability of the transfer advice. Artisan didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it wasnt involved with the recommendation to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. It said it didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions for that type of 
business. It said the advice to transfer was given by Firm I.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Amongst other things Mr M said Artisan had told 
him that it was a no brainer to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. He added 
that Artisan had entered into a joint venture with Firm I and as such was responsible for the 
advice to transfer out of the scheme. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. She said she was 
satisfied that Artisan didnt advise Mr M to transfer out of his DB scheme. She didnt think 
Artisans actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr M to Firm I. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr M has made a number of points. And I've considered all the 
relevant evidence carefully. But I dont intend to address each point individually. Instead I will 
focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Ms complaint and the reasons 
for my decision. 
Mr M has also complained about the advice provided by Firm I. We are looking at that 
complaint under a separate reference number; so I dont intend to provide any analysis of 
Firm Is actions in this decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons given 
by the investigator.
Did Artisan advise Mr M to transfer?
I understand that Mr M contacted Artisan after receiving a recommendation from colleagues. 
Artisan said that it didnt have the regulators authority to give advice concerning a DB 
transfer and introduced Mr M to Firm I. And that Artisans adviser was present when Mr M 
met with Firm I. Mr M said that meeting took place at Artisans advisers home. So I can 
understand why he might have felt Artisan had an instrumental role to play in the advice 
process. But that doesn't mean Artisan gave advice or made a recommendation to transfer 
Mr Ms benefits from the DB scheme.
Mr Ms said that Artisan had told him it was a no brainer to transfer his DB pension. In other 
words hes said that Artisans adviser made remarks that led him to believe he was 
recommending the transfer. Clearly I wasnt there when Mr M met with Artisan. So I can't 
know exactly what was or wasnt exchanged between them. Its certainly possible that 
Artisan might have made comments that Mr M understood were in support of a transfer. But 
I don't think that goes as far as giving advice or making a recommendation. And the 
evidence Ive seen shows it was Firm I that produced the pension transfer and suitability 
reports. It was also Firm I that made a recommendation to Mr M, not Artisan. So, regardless 
of any positive comments that Artisan might have made about the possibility of a transfer I 
dont think that makes Artisan responsible for the advice Firm I gave to Mr M to transfer out 
of his DB scheme.
I'm aware that once Firm I had given its advice it referred Mr M back to Artisan for it to 
provide ongoing financial advice. But the fact that Artisan continued to provide advice after 
the transfer doesn't mean it was responsible for the earlier advice given by an entirely 
different firm.
It follows that Im satisfied that Artisans role in connection with the DB pension transfer was 
limited to making an introduction. And as such, I find that it isn't in any way responsible for the advice Firm I provided. 
Did Artisan and Firm I embark on a joint venture?
Mr Ms says a joint venture existed between Artisan and Firm I to facilitate Mr M transferring 
out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss Mr M 
has suffered. Hes suggested that the number of referrals between the two Firms could be 
evidence of such a joint venture.
I haven't investigated the number of referrals between the two firms. Thats because I dont 
think I need to in order to decide whether or not Artisan gave Mr M advice to transfer his DB 
benefits to a personal pension. We consider each case on the specific circumstances of the 
individual complaint. Further, its not unusual for advising firms to have commercial 
arrangements in terms of making client referrals, particularly where one of those firms 
doesn't have the relevant regulatory permission to carry out certain types of business. And 
theres nothing wrong with that. I understand thats the case between Artisan and Firm I. 
That commercial arrangement is not evidence of a joint venture which would make Artisan 
liable for the advice Firm I gave to Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr M has 
implied that Artisan did give him advice, despite not having the relevant permission to do so, 
Im satisfied Mr M transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm I advised him to, 
independently of Artisans involvement. So, I think any losses Mr M suffered flow from 
Firm Is advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with Artisan before that.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Artisans advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ms decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm I. Im also not 
persuaded that Artisan made an error or treated Mr M unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Artisan to pay compensation to Mr M or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman