DRN-3571625
The complaint
Miss A and Mrs W complain as trustees on behalf of the R Trust that Scottish Friendly 
Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) made duplicate transactions into a bond held 
within the R trust and delayed resolving it. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is already well known to the parties and is not disputed. In 
summary, the R discretionary settlement trust was set up as a personal injury trust for the 
benefit of Miss As brother. However, in August 2019 the trustees financial advisor alerted 
Scottish Friendly of a discrepancy as a transaction of £5,414.43 from December 2018 had 
been duplicated. So, the value of the bond within the R Trust was too high. A complaint was 
made to Scottish Friendly in November 2019. 
Scottish Friendly formally responded to the complaint in February 2020. They upheld it and 
said the balance had been corrected. However, there was further correspondence and it 
remained unresolved. Therefore, the trustees asked our service to investigate. Our 
Investigator issued a view setting out how they felt Scottish Friendly should put things right. 
Both parties accepted the view, but the resolution hasnt been carried out. Therefore, the 
case has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators conclusion for the following reasons: 
Scottish Friendly have accepted that a transaction of £5,414.43 occurred four times 
on 20 December 2018. Theyve explained this was a tax insurance credit that was 
duplicated. The error was caused when they didnt initially receive confirmation of the 
request for credit, which meant they went on to make repeated requests. Therefore, 
the account balance was £16,243.29 higher than it should have been.
As the account balance was higher, the charges associated with the account also 
increased. This is because charges were taken as a percent of the total balance. 
The issue was first highlighted to Scottish Friendly on 2 August 2019. However, it 
wasnt corrected within a reasonable time. On 17 February 2020, Scottish Friendly 
wrote to the trustees and confirmed the issue had been resolved but this was not 
correct. 
Scottish Friendly also wrote to the trustees on 27 April 2021 and said they expected 
to be able to resolve the issue in the near future. However, it remained unresolved. 
Therefore, there has been significant delay and inconvenience.  
The trustees have also set out the difficulties theyve had paying out money from the 
trust to the beneficiary as a result of the incorrect balance. Theyve explained the 
importance of being able to make payments to the beneficiary and how the funds are 
generally utilized. Having considered this, Im content the error has had a very 
significant impact.
  
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly have made an offer to resolve the complaint and Im content this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. To put things right they should: 
Ensure the duplicated credits on the account are removed and the balance is 
corrected. 
Pay £107.05 plus VAT to Miss A for legal fees incurred trying to resolve the incorrect 
balance. Typically, we would look to add 8% simple interest from the date the invoice 
was paid to the date of settlement. However, the trustees have said they do not wish 
to include the interest as its likely they would incur further costs identifying when the 
payment was made. 
Pay a total of £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
because of the duplicated transactions and the delay in rectifying the error. Scottish 
Friendly have said theyve already paid £500, in which case they would need to pay a 
further £1,500 compensation to Miss A.  
Pay a total of £2,000 to the R trust in recognition of the additional charges caused by 
the higher balance. Scottish Friendly have confirmed the incorrect charges would be 
1% of the credited amount (this would be around £162). They offered to increase this 
to £2,000 in recognition of the impact of the error to the beneficiary. 
I understand Scottish Friendly have already carried out some of the above steps. They 
shouldnt duplicate whats already been done, but to put things right they should ensure all of 
the above payments and actions are carried out. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should put 
things right in the way outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Miss A 
as trustees of the R Trust to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman