DRN-2342394
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has offered 
to settle their complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out related to a mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for their original joint mortgage with BOS in in April 1996. BOS 
records show that Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance related to their mortgage in 2001 
and with this further advance they took out a PPI policy. In 2006 Mr and Mrs M took out a re-
mortgage on the property which consolidated all their mortgage borrowings into one new 
mortgage. 
In 2019 Mr and M complained that the PPI related to their mortgage was mis-sold. BOS 
agreed to uphold their complaint and pay them £623.34, after tax, in compensation. 
BOS based its offer on the policy starting in June 2001 and ending in March 2002. Mr and 
Mrs M were unhappy as they said no evidence had been provided to show why the PPI was 
only active for such a short time and there is nothing to show they didnt pay for the PPI 
before or after the dates BOS used. So they were not satisfied that the compensation was 
correct and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said based on the evidence provided by BOS, what had been offered in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs M was fair. But Mr and Mrs M did not agree as they feel the 
dates for the PPI being active remained unproven. They are also seeking compensation for 
the lack of trust and disappointment they feel in relation to the way the business has acted 
and failed to provide written evidence to explain its calculations. 
As Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy, the complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M complained to BOS in 2019 about the PPI taken out related to their mortgage. 
BOS said that this PPI policy had been mis-sold and so offered to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs M to settle the complaint.
The only records BOS have about the mortgage and PPI policy are computer records. In 
order to check if a customer has PPI BOS undertakes searches of the records it has 
available. And in this case the PPI policy, to cover Mr M only in relation to the mortgage, was 
identified. The computer records show that this policy started in June 2001 and ended in 
March 2002.
Mr and Mrs M say they would never have taken out any PPI as it wasnt needed. I can see 
that the nature of Mr Ms employment is such that this type of insurance may not normally be 
seen as suitable as he was in a very secure role. When a PPI policy isnt suitable for a 
consumer, but has been taken out, it is generally found to be mis-sold. In this case BOS has 
agreed that the policy was mis-sold and so in this decision I am not considering how the 
policy came to be mis-sold.
In this decision I am looking at if the compensation offered to settle the mis-sale complaint is 
fair. Compensation for mis-sold PPI should, as far as possible put the consumer in the 
position they would have been in if the policy had never been taken out. This means 
refunding all the costs of the PPI plus paying compensatory interest for any time the 
consumer was out of pocket. 
In this particular case the main issue Mr and Mrs M have is how long the policy ran for  so 
how many monthly payments they made for the policy. They say they cannot understand 
why a policy would only be active on their mortgage for eight months, particularly during the 
dates indicated by BOS. Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 1996 and say they later 
took out further mortgage advances, indicating these were around 2003 and 2006. But they 
say they recall nothing happening in 2001 to show why a PPI policy would have been taken 
out at that time and then cancelled in 2002. They have said they feel these dates have just 
been plucked out of the air.
Mr and Mrs M havent been able to provide any evidence about their loans or the PPI which 
is understandable when this all happened so many years ago. The records from BOS about 
Mr and Mrs Ms accounts are all computerised and BOS has provided numerous 
screenshots showing information about the accounts held by Mr and Mrs M. It has also 
provided some screenshots from the insurer that show information about the PPI policy.
I can see the records provided by BOS show that Mr and Mrs M took out the original 
mortgage in April 1996 and there is nothing to indicate on any records that a PPI policy was 
applied for and taken out at that time. The computer records also indicate the next further 
advances was applied for in 2001, the reference for this mortgage advance being 7605. This 
advance was repaid in 2006, when it seems Mr and Mrs M took out a full re-mortgage on the 
property.
Mr and Mrs M have indicated they applied for additional funds in 2003/2004 but in fact 
although the records show an application for a further advance was made in June 2004, this 
is shown on BOS system as a pre-offer mortgage and then was closed in August 2004. So 
it seems this application was never actually fully processed and taken up. The funds Mr and 
Mrs M recall obtaining, prior to their re-mortgage in 2006, would therefore most likely be 
related to the advance in 2001, with which PPI was taken.
The records from the insurers system indicate the PPI first payment was due in July 2001. 
But the first payment made is recorded as January 2002. BOS has now confirmed it is most 
likely this was because the PPI had a six months free period, which did quite often happen 
when PPI policies were sold. So only two monthly payments are shown as being made in 
January and February 2002. Both payments by direct debit to the insurer.
The records also indicate that the March payment failed as the direct debit had been 
cancelled. No one can be certain exactly what happened and why the March direct debit was 
cancelled, and the policy was also then cancelled for non-payment. But it is possible after 
the two payments had come out of their account for the PPI, Mr and Mrs M felt they didnt 
want this policy and so cancelled the next payment for it. I have nothing to indicate the records from BOS and also from the insurer are inaccurate. 
Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of their borrowings do not conflict with the records, other than 
in the dates. They say they took out their mortgage in 1996 and re-mortgaged in 2006, with a 
further advance being taken between these two dates. And that is also what the records also 
show. The only difference is the date of the further advance that was actually made being 
2001, not 2003 as Mr and Mrs M recollect.
Mr and Mrs M may not recall making the application in 2001 but the records indicate they did 
receive a further advance at this time which was settled on the re-mortgage in 2006. The 
records from the insurer also indicate that the PPI was attached to a further advance taken 
out in 2001. The limited information available would suggest that the funds may have been 
released around June 2001 and the PPI started at the same time, with the first PPI payment 
being due in July 2001.
The computer records from the insurer show only two payments of £35.91 were paid for the 
PPI. But when BOS was calculating the compensation, because its own records showed 
only the start date and end date of the PPI it has used those dates which covered an eight-
month period. So it calculated that eight payments of £35.91 had been made and worked out 
the compensatory interest on that amount.
I have seen no evidence to show that the PPI was taken out with the original mortgage in 
1996, nor that any payments for it were made prior to the further advance and PPI being 
taken out in 2001.
BOS does have some more detail of the re-mortgage in 2006 and the notes on the system 
indicate that at this time PPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs M and the cover was declined 
as they felt they had adequate resources to cover their mortgage payments. So they didnt 
take out a PPI policy at this time.
Also, as Ive indicated, the computer screens from the insurer indicate that the direct debit 
was cancelled in 2002 and the policy was cancelled. Therefore, there is nothing to show that 
any payments for the PPI were made after the one paid in February 2002. 
I know Mr and Mrs M want explanations and evidence as to why the PPI was taken out in 
2001 as they say they would never have wanted it. The records from 2001 are limited and 
there are no copies of the documents completed at the time. But as a further advance was 
taken out at this time then it is most likely PPI was discussed, as Ive indicated the records 
from 2006 indicate it was certainly discussed at that time. And if the PPI was offered free for 
six months then its possible Mr and Mrs M may have agreed to take it for free and then 
could cancel at the end of this period, which in effect they did. 
However this is only conjecture, based on the facts that exist and I cannot give Mr and 
Mrs M any definitive evidence and explanations of what happened. But based on all the 
evidence available, it shows that the PPI was active from June 2001, premiums were paid in 
January and February 2002, and the policy cancelled from March 2002. Therefore, based on 
the records available BOS has used the correct dates for the PPI being active in its 
calculation.
Overall as BOS has based its calculation on Mr and Mrs M paying eight monthly payments 
rather than two, Mr and Mrs M are getting more compensation than they should, both for the 
cost of the PPI and the compensatory interest as this has been worked out on a higher 
amount of premiums. 
Mr and Mrs M have also asked for additional compensation for the lack of trust, integrity and 
disappointment they feel in BOS as a result of the complaint process and handling by BOS. BOS could have perhaps provided a slightly clearer explanation at the start as to where the 
dates of the PPI had come from. But BOS did nothing wrong in using the dates on its system 
when there was no other evidence indicating the PPI was paid for a different period. In fact, 
as I have indicated the only additional information is from the insurers systems and this 
indicates the PPI premiums were paid for a shorter period. 
Taking everything into account I cannot find that BOS did anything wrong in the way it 
undertook its calculation of the compensation and I think what it offered and paid is fair. 
Mr and Mrs M have received more than they should have in compensation for the reasons I 
have explained. So I am not awarding any additional compensation for trouble and upset, as 
I think what has been paid to them does provide some extra compensation in the 
circumstances of the case.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that Bank of Scotland Plc has offered and paid to settle Mr and Mrs Ms mis-sale 
complaint is fair. And I am not directing any additional compensation for trouble and upset 
should be paid to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman