DRN-3107545
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer a stakeholder
personal pension (SPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds 
were invested in Dolphin Capital, a German property development scheme, that has since 
failed. He says the advice to transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment was 
too high risk for him. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
  
What happened
In 2015, Mr S transferred the benefits he held in his SPP to The Orbis SIPP administered 
by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). Mr S says he was advised to 
transfer by Wellington Court.
In 2020 Mr S made a complaint about the advice he says he received. Mr S said hed told 
the adviser he wanted no risk to his pension because of his circumstances. He said the 
adviser told him the Dolphin Capital investment was essentially risk free and his money 
would be protected. Mr S says he had lost his pension and he holds Wellington Court 
responsible for his losses. In response, Wellington Court said Mr S has never been its 
customer and it did not provide him with advice, so it had no case to answer.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator said that an advice fee was taken from 
Mr Ss SIPP and paid to Wellington Court. He also said documents produced by GMTC 
referred to Wellington Court providing advice. The investigator thought this was enough 
evidence to show Wellington Court was responsible for Mr Ss transfer and, therefore, that 
this was a complaint that we could look at. So, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence that 
was available to me. I repeat what I said here:
Review of evidence as described in my provisional decision
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr S and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Ss behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received by the PAN Group 
(administrators and trustees) on 31 March 2015. The letter is signed on behalf of 
Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than 
by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the one 
on the covering letter. Under the signature, Mr Ps name has been printed by hand. 
Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. An incorrect 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  the 
number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. The 
form was signed on 30 March 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 26 March 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 26 March 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said the following:
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company")
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP
Initial Fee Renewal Fee Fixed Fee (£)
Transfers into the 
Scheme1% to a maximum 
of £800 plus VATNIL NIL
Single Premium NIL NIL NIL
Regular Premium NIL NIL NIL
I confirm my agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation to debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my 
behalf, this agreement replaces any existing agreement
Mr S signed the form on 26 March 2015.
VI. The Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mr Ss 
transfer, including the policy numbers of the SPP he was transferring from and its 
transfer value. This was signed by Mr S on 26 March 2015.
VII. Various documents from Mr Ss transferring pension providers.
VIII. A SIPP bank account statement for Mr S dated 13 March 2020 showing Mr S 
purchased a Dolphin Capital loan note on 13 May 2015 for £49,773.
  
2. Mr Ss recollections
Mr S told us he and his wife, Mrs S, wanted to have their pensions looked at. They 
spoke to their accountant, who recommended they speak with an adviser. However, 
Mr S said this adviser didnt have the necessary permissions so he referred them to 
Wellington Court. Mr S says he dealt with Mr P at Wellington Court over the phone, who 
recommended that one of the pensions  his SPP  should be transferred and invested 
in Dolphin Capital. He did not recommend they transfer the other pension. Mr S says he 
didnt receive any paperwork at the time.
Mr S says he made Mr P aware that he supported his disabled wife and five children on 
a modest wage. He says he also told Mr P he had an interest-only mortgage and other 
debts, so he couldnt afford to take any risk with his pension. Mr S says he was led to 
believe that he was taking out a product that was appropriate for his needs.3. Information from Mr Ss previous pension providers
Mr Ss previous scheme provided information as part of the transfer. This information 
shows that, amongst other things, Mr Ss SPP was invested in a balanced fund.
4. Documents from Wellington Court
Ill come on to what Wellington Court has said in response to Mr Ss complaint later in 
my decision. But its worth pointing out at this stage that it hasnt provided any 
documents in relation to Mr Ss transfer because it says it didnt advise Mr S and that 
Mr S has never been a client of Wellington Court. It also didnt respond to the view
issued by the investigator.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer. 
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but 
it hasnt done so. It did, however, provide notes of a meeting it had with the regulator, 
the FCA, in 2016 in which Wellington Courts work with GMTC was discussed. [In my 
provisional decision I quoted from these notes. But I havent done so here because it 
isnt essential to the outcome of the case.]  
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
Mr S transferred £52,809.19 from his SPP to the Orbis SIPP on 4 April 2015. A 1% fee
on this amount (along the lines of the initial fee in the Adviser Remuneration Form
described above) would equal £528.09. According to his SIPP transaction statement,
this exact amount was taken from Mr Ss transfer value on 23 April 2015. It was
recorded on his SIPP statement as IFA Fees - Wellington Fee.
I can see the £528.09 was paid from the SIPP deposit account (with Bank M) to the
GMTC client account (with Bank N) on 23 April 2015. This amount was included with
numerous other 1% fees for other individuals and the total amount, which came to
£8,588.76, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank
account (with Bank H) on 24 April 2015 with the reference OR ADVISER FEES.
6. Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that 
has been collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer. 
II. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these cases.III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM 
ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES. This payment included Mr Ss 
£528.09 fee.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August 2015 in relation to 13 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES. 
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES. £12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar cases. 
Its not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries 
for September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at 
least £87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in 
relation to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible 
that payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 
25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because 
Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see 
no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington 
Court and Ill proceed on that basis.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr S (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Ss pensions (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had been paid a 1% advisory fee in 
relation to Mr Ss transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion because the 
documentary evidence showed Mr S (and others like him) agreed to pay a 1% advisory fee 
in relation to the Orbis SIPP, and the investments intended to be held in the SIPP. I thought 
the documentary evidence persuasively showed that the 1% fees were paid to Wellington 
Court. These fees were, in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query 
them at the time, and didnt provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at 
the time, I concluded that the fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but 
were in line with what it was expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. 
I therefore provisionally concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business 
relating to the transfer of pensions  including Mr Ss pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr S was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr S brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint, I noted Wellington Court doesnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the 1% advice fee it was paid in relation to Mr Ss transfer. 
I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew 
it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable.And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mr S ended up 
investing in Dolphin Capital, which was a non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated 
investment. I didnt think this investment was suitable for Mr S and I also didnt think Mr S 
had any need to switch his pension to a SIPP, given the costs involved in doing so. All things 
considered, therefore, I didnt think the transfer was suitable.
I provisionally upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to respond. Mr S had no further comments. Wellington Court made a 
number of comments, which I address below.
What did Wellington Court say in response?
Wellington Courts response contained, in aggregate, over 50 bullet points. Its arguments 
werent specific to Mr Ss case but were intended to apply to a number of similar cases. 
Because a number of its comments overlap, I think its reasonable to group and summarise 
Wellington Courts response as follows:
1. The Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation into the 
complaint and the provisional decision includes findings that are unwarranted and not 
based on the evidence. The Financial Ombudsman Service is biased and is trying to 
frame Wellington Court.
2. Evidence hasnt been shared; a full disclosure would be required in court.
3. There are no grounds for complaint because the complainants have never been clients 
of Wellington Court. Any transfer paperwork that refers to Wellington Court is fraudulent 
and paperwork that looks to have originated from Wellington Court has been cloned. 
Complainants testimony does little to prove Wellington Courts involvement and 
Wellington Court has testimony from at least one client that says it didnt advise him and 
had no role in arranging his pension. No evidence has been provided of any direct 
contact between Wellington Court and the complainants or Dolphin Capital. 
4. The adviser on the paperwork  Mr P from Wellington Court  was not a registered 
advisor and therefore couldnt give advice on the transfers in question.
5. GMTC accepted business directly from individuals or from unauthorised advisers and 
introducers. 
6. GMTC, and its associates, were running a scam. The FCA should have known this and 
advised Wellington Court and the Financial Ombudsman Service of this at the time. 
GMTC and others are now involved in a mammoth cover-up of what happened.
7. Wellington Court isnt responsible for the operational failures of GMTC or its regulatory 
supervision. It is being held liable because it is the last man standing. It may be the 
victim of a turf war going on between various regulatory agencies. It has been singled 
out for being an Irish company. 
8. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed to recognise the obligations of GMTC, in 
particular in relation to undertaking due diligence on the underlying assets held in its 
SIPPs.9. Because the complainants werent clients of Wellington Court, it cant comment on their 
previous pension arrangements, or their attitude to risk and needs.
10. Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients, the files 
for which have previously been given to the FCA. It makes little sense that Wellington 
Court has files for these three clients yet doesnt have files for other clients that it 
supposedly advised.
11. Wellington Court wouldnt have risked its reputation and licence by supporting 
unregulated activities.
12. The claims management companies (CMCs) that represent many complainants are 
bringing unwarranted complaints for commercial gain and are being encouraged by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to do so. The Financial Ombudsman Service has failed 
to report fraudulent activities of CMCs and their clients to the police. 
13. To resolve matters, Wellington Court has proposed the following:
A conference call with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigation to be conducted by Wellington Court on the Financial 
Ombudsman Services behalf, for an agreed fee.  
14. Wellington Court reserves the right to take legal action against the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and any other parties.
Wellington Court has also provided telephone notes and emails which, in its view, support its 
position that the complainants cant recollect, and therefore couldnt have been clients of, 
Wellington Court.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 For the avoidance of doubt, this means Ive considered everything Wellington Court has 
said, although I will limit my findings to those areas that I now consider to be relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint and the process by which that outcome has been reached. 
Interpreting the evidence
My starting point here, as it was in my provisional decision, is the evidence that points to 
Wellington Court being paid advisory fees in relation to a number of transfers to GMTC in 
2015. I outlined this evidence in my provisional decision. Ive repeated it in the background 
section above. To recap, the evidence was four-fold.
First, Mr S and many others signed an Adviser Remuneration Form which appointed Mr P 
of Wellington Court to provide advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP and any related 
investments held in that SIPP. The fee for that advice was recorded as being 1%.
Second, Mr Ss SIPP statement shows that a 1% IFA Fees - Wellington Fee was taken 
from the transfer value of his pension on 23 April 2015. This fee was then paid from the 
SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client account on 23 April 2015. The £528.09 was 
included with a number of other 1% fees for other individuals transferring to the Orbis SIPP 
and the total amount, which came to £8,588.76, was then paid from the GMTC client account to Wellington Courts bank account on 24 April 2015. The £8,588.76 appeared on 
Wellington Courts bank statement as OR ADVISER FEES.
Third, 1% fees along the same lines were paid from GMTC to Wellington Court in relation to 
a large number of other transfers to the Orbis SIPP over a six month period in 2015. 
Payments of at least £87,000 relating to at least 200 policies were paid in this period. 
Fourth, Wellington didnt at any point query the above payments despite them being 
substantial. 
My view was, and remains, that this evidence is critical to the outcome of the complaint. It 
shows that many individuals  Mr S included  agreed to pay Wellington Court 1% of their 
transfer value for advice on the Orbis SIPP and their proposed investments. And it 
persuasively shows that Wellington Court received 1% payments in relation to those 
transfers. Wellington Court didnt query why it was receiving these fees. And its difficult to 
see how Wellington Court could have overlooked the payments  they are simply too large 
not to notice. It would also have had to have overlooked the payments when preparing its 
financial accounts which also strikes me as being unlikely. So its reasonable to conclude 
from this that the fees were in line with what Wellington Court had been expecting from 
GMTC for its role in the transfers. Tying all this together, Im satisfied Wellington Court was 
paid a 1% advice fee for the transfer of Mr Ss pension and many others like it.
 
Wellington Court hasnt questioned the money trail outlined in my provisional decision and 
repeated in my review of evidence section above. And it didnt satisfactorily explain why it 
received payments of at least £87,000 from GMTC over a six month period. In fact, it doesnt 
directly address the issue at all in response to my provisional decision which is a significant 
omission given how central it is to the outcome of the complaint. 
For completeness, however, Wellington Court has previously said it did some consultancy 
work for GMTC. It says this involved checking people werent giving up guaranteed benefits 
by transferring their pensions (which was business GMTC didnt want to be involved in). 
 
Wellington Court has never articulated in detail what its argument is in respect to its 
consultancy work. But it can only be that all the payments it received from GMTC were for its 
consultancy work or that its consultancy work meant the 1% payments from GMTC could 
easily have been overlooked which would give credence to its argument that the transfers 
were happening without its knowledge. 
I dont think the first argument stands up to much scrutiny because theres documentary 
evidence  outlined above  that persuasively shows the payments werent for consultancy 
work but were instead related to 1% advice fees that were taken from transfer values and 
then paid by GMTC to Wellington Court.
With regards to the second argument, Wellington Court hasnt provided us with any details of 
the fees it earned for its consultancy work. And the bank statements it provided have been 
too heavily redacted to see the full pattern of payments Wellington Court received from 
GMTC. In my provisional decision, I did invite Wellington Court to provide unredacted bank 
statements for the period under review but it hasnt done so. So whilst its possible that the 
fees for its consultancy work were of a similar magnitude to the 1% initial fees outlined 
above, were paid around the same time and had similar payment references  which, taken 
together, could mean Wellington Court reasonably overlooked them  theres no evidence to 
support this. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, other financial advice firms did similar consultancy 
work in relation to transfers to GMTC. These firms charged a fixed fee of around £30 per case. So for Wellington Court to have earned enough to have reasonably overlooked some 
payments from GMTC, it would have to have worked an unfeasibly large number of cases to 
make the numbers add up. Alternatively, it could have charged more than £30 per case. But 
even with this assumption, the numbers dont look realistic. The charge per case would have 
to be implausibly high to generate an income high enough that Wellington Court could, 
reasonably, have overlooked the £87,000 advice fees it received from GMTC. By way of 
example, a charge of £100 per case (unlikely in itself to just check whether a pension had 
safeguarded benefits) would still require 870 cases in order to produce an income in the 
region of £87,000. 
In short, whilst Wellington Court may have earned additional sums for its consultancy work, 
its not plausible that the fees it earned for such work could, realistically, have caused it to 
overlook the 1% advisory fees it was also receiving from GMTC. 
Wellington Court says responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically 
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a 
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court 
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from 
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration 
should speak for itself.
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received 
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington 
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried 
these payments at the time given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view, 
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  they were marked as coming 
from GMTC  so I dont see any practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the 
issue with GMTC or the police. The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the 
payments werent fraudulent but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was 
expecting to be paid for its involvement in the transfers. 
Wellington Court also points out that theres no evidence of there being any direct contact 
between it and the complainants (Mr S included). To support its case, it points to the 
recollections of the complainants, many of whom say they cannot remember dealing with 
Wellington Court. It also refers to one of its clients who says Wellington Court had no 
involvement in his pension with GMTC. 
I covered this in my provisional decision, where I acknowledged that there wasnt any 
paperwork sent to Wellington Court in relation to Mr Ss transfer, or any other transfer as far 
as I was aware. And I made the point that based on the recollections of the complainants, 
Mr S and others like him dealt primarily with unregulated introducers and much of this was 
over the phone. So I can understand why Mr S, and others, cant recall much, if anything, 
about Wellington Court.
 
However, this doesnt preclude the possibility of Wellington Courts involvement in the 
transfers. GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting any transfers. The paperwork described above was evidence enough for GMTC to 
have accepted a transfer as coming through an IFA  Wellington Court. As a result, the 
transfers went ahead and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from each transfer value  
Mr Ss included  and paid to (and accepted by) Wellington Court. So whatever the extent of 
Wellington Courts contact with Mr S, it was still nonetheless engaged in an advisory 
capacity in relation to his transfer and subsequent investment in Dolphin Capital  and the 
transfer of many other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would 
expect from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court didnt 
properly advise Mr S, and others, despite being paid to do so.
I agree with Wellington Court when it says some of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. 
For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC enclosing Mr Ss transfer papers was undated 
and signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The 
signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application 
Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is again 
indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the covering letter). Under the 
signature, Mr Ps first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was then corrected. And an 
incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. 
So, as I said in my provisional decision, there are question marks here. However, as I also 
went on to say in my provisional decision, my role is to make findings of fact based on the 
available evidence in order to establish whether this is a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider against Wellington Court and, if so, whether its fair and 
reasonable to uphold that complaint. My role isnt to speculate beyond that. Taking all the 
above into consideration, I see no reason to change my findings of fact, which were  and 
remain  as follows:
Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of 
pensions to the Orbis SIPP. This includes the transfer of Mr Ss pension.
Wellington Courts actions are not consistent with it being the victim of fraudulent 
activity.
Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court says GMTC failed to undertake due diligence of the SIPPs intended 
investment in Dolphin Capital. But Mr S hasnt complained about GMTC  he has 
complained about the actions of Wellington Court. So my role is to consider Mr Ss complaint 
against Wellington Court  which Ive done. On a similar note, Wellington Court questions 
whether the Financial Ombudsman Service and the FCA have investigated GMTC. I cant 
comment on the FCA. And as Ive said above, it isnt my role to investigate GMTC in relation 
to this complaint.
Wellington Court has said it is willing to help us get to the bottom of the claims for a fee. 
But, as Im sure Wellington Court will appreciate, we are an impartial dispute resolution 
service. Delegating an investigation to the respondent of the complaint would go against that 
impartiality. Besides, Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to provide all the 
evidence and arguments it thinks are relevant.  
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us in order to resolve this matter. Under the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, either party can request a hearing. It is for the 
ombudsman to consider whether the issues raised in such a request are material enough to 
warrant a hearing. 
Having read the case in its entirety once again, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
a hearing is required. Ive outlined the evidence Ive relied upon in coming to my provisional 
decision. And Im satisfied theres nothing in that evidence that would necessitate me 
speaking to either party in order to better understand that evidence. Much of the evidence is 
paper based and, to my mind, incontrovertible (pension and bank statements showing 
money flowing from GMTC to Wellington Court for instance). The paperwork that is more 
debateable  the transfer paperwork  has been debated extensively in my decisions and 
I see no persuasive reason why a hearing would add significant insight to that debate.I also note that Wellington Court hasnt actually provided any specific reasons for why a fair 
decision can only be reached following a hearing. In the circumstances, and after 
considering all the available evidence and the relevant DISP rules, Im satisfied I can fairly 
determine this complaint without a hearing.
Wellington Court has also said evidence hasnt been shared. It doesnt say exactly what 
hasnt been shared which makes responding difficult. But Im satisfied Wellington Court has 
seen the transfer paperwork for numerous complainants, Mr Ss included. Indeed, its case 
relies heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork. Im also satisfied 
Wellington Court has seen a copy of Mr Ss SIPP statement showing the 1% Wellington IFA 
fee being taken from his transfer value. Wellington Court has also been sent a copy of 
GMTCs payment summary showing Mr Ss advice fee being paid to Wellington Courts bank 
account. This evidence is central to the outcome of the complaint and our investigator made 
particular reference to it in her assessment. And in my provisional decision, I set out in some 
detail the payments GMTC made to Wellington Court during 2015 in relation to a large 
number of other transfers with very similar circumstances to Mr Ss transfer. Wellington 
Court hasnt questioned any of these payments or even directly referred to them in its 
response despite their importance to the complaint. In the circumstances, its difficult to see 
what material evidence Wellington Court has been deprived of. 
Jurisdiction
In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Ss complaint was in the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I said:
Jurisdiction  in respect of the activities of Wellington Court
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given to transfer his personal pensions to the 
Orbis SIPP and invest in Dolphin Capital, which he says was too risky for him. The 
investment now looks to have minimal value. Mr S complained to Wellington Court because it 
was the advisory firm that appeared on the transfer paperwork.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or 
more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to 
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an 
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr S. There is a lack of documentation 
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr S. Potentially 
it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate or an oversight isnt for me to speculate on). 
It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were 
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less 
regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements that 
would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, arrangements 
that bring it about).I consider it unlikely that Mr S would have transferred and invested in Dolphin Capital if it 
hadnt been for Wellington Courts involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm before it would accept a transfer. Mr S signed up for advice on the transfer and 
investment. He paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely that he would have 
proceeded if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so. Im satisfied, therefore, that 
Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Ss transfer and 
investment. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements under 
Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising 
on and arranging pensions and investments.
Jurisdiction  was Mr S an eligible complainant?
DISP 2.7 covers what is required for someone to be an eligible complainant. Broadly 
speaking, there are two requirements that need to be met, relating to the entity bringing the 
complaint (DISP 2.7.3) and the relationship between that entity and the business being 
complained about (DISP 2.7.6).
Im satisfied that Mr S meets the requirements of DISP 2.7.3 because he is a consumer 
(which is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that 
individuals trade, business, craft or profession).
With regards the second requirement, Mr Ss complaint must also arise from matters relevant 
to a relationship with the business he is complaining about (referred to as the respondent in 
the rules). DISP 2.7.6 sets out 17 different types of relationship. The first of these is the 
relevant one for the purposes of Mr Ss complaint:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money holder 
of the  respondent.
Clearly, for the reasons given previously, Wellington Court doesnt think Mr S was its 
customer. I disagree.
Mr S signed a document agreeing to Wellington Court to provide him with advice and to pay 
Wellington Court 1% for that advice. That 1% fee was duly taken from his SIPP and recorded 
as a IFA Fees - Wellington Fee on his SIPP statement. Ive seen nothing to show Mr S 
queried the fee when it was taken so I think its evident he wasnt, at that point, concerned 
about paying advice fees to Wellington Court. Clearly there doesnt appear to be any 
documents showing what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for that advice fee. But 
Mr S doesnt appear to be a particularly experienced investor so he wouldnt necessarily 
have known what to expect. So I think he would therefore have reasonably considered 
himself a customer of Wellington Court. And from Wellington Courts perspective, its difficult 
to argue Mr S wasnt its customer given it knowingly accepted the 1% payment in relation to 
Mr S and the transfer wouldnt have happened if it hadnt been for its involvement.
In short, Mr S signed up for advice and he paid for advice. Wellington Court was sent, and 
accepted, payment for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical 
to Mr S transferring and investing in the way he did. So all things considered, Im satisfied 
there was a customer relationship here.I should point out that I have seen similar cases where the advisory firm has had a 
relationship with another business (the introducer firm for instance) which involved it 
checking some aspects of a persons transfer paperwork. In such a situation, its likely that 
there is a business-to-business relationship (between the advisory firm and the introducer 
firm) rather than a direct relationship between the person transferring and the advisory firm. 
This has implications for the eligibility of the person bringing the complaint under DISP 
because the complainant doesnt appear to have been a customer of the respondent.
This argument doesnt appear to apply here. Yes, Wellington Court may well have
undertaken some consultancy work for GMTC. But, as outlined above, it hasnt provided
enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was.
And, for the reasons given above, there was a relationship between the complainant, Mr S,
and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any consultancy arrangement that may have
been in place.
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on
from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr S brought 
his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a case I can consider.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to jurisdiction except for 
its broader arguments about Mr S never being a client of Wellington Court. Ive dealt with 
those broader arguments and how they related to jurisdiction in my provisional decision. Ive 
addressed those arguments once again in my comments above and my conclusions havent 
changed. So, in the absence of any specific arguments about jurisdiction, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings in this area. 
The merits of Mr Ss complaint
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I said: 
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work to get clients into a position to transfer. And then 
in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm.
Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, 
Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight 
on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations 
in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions did not meet those requirements. Either 
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, 
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of 
transfers.
The above means there isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Ss 
financial needs and circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
transaction wasnt suitable for Mr S.
Mr S has explained that he had a number of debts and very little disposable income at the 
time of the advice, so he could not afford to take any risk with his pension. The investment in 
Dolphin Capital was a non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated investment. Mr S doesnt 
appear to have had the degree of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it also looks like he allocated most of his pension savings to the 
one investment, which strikes me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most 
knowledgeable and least risk averse investors. As I dont think alternative or non-standard 
investments would have been suitable for Mr S, I dont think transferring his SPP to a SIPP 
was suitable advice especially given the increased costs involved in doing so. All things 
considered, I dont think the transfer was suitable for him.
That said, it strikes me that Mr S had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy 
because that seems to have been behind his decision to think about a transfer in the first 
place. While Mr S said he didnt want to take any risk, it appears his SPP was invested in a 
balanced fund with an equity weighting of between 40 and 85%. Given that Mr S had very 
little capacity for loss, I think his attitude to risk was most likely cautious. My approach to
compensation, which is set out below, reflects these considerations.
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. If I do uphold Mr Ss
complaint, Wellington Court will have to put things right for him by following the approach
outlined below.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any specific arguments in relation to what Ive said except 
for its broader arguments about Mr S never being a client of Wellington Court. I addressed 
these issues in my provisional decision. I revisited the same issues earlier in this final 
decision and my conclusions havent changed. I also havent been provided with any 
arguments or evidence from either party that makes me think my assumptions regarding 
Mr Ss needs and circumstances at the time of the transfer were incorrect  It follows from this 
that I remain satisfied with the approach I took with regards to the merits of Mr Ss complaint 
and the best approach to take to compensate him. 
 
Putting things right
 My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be 
in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr S would have invested differently. Its not
possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out
below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expectedmarginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. As Mr S is likely to be
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis
SIPPstill 
existsfor half the
investment: FTSE
UK Private
Investors Income
Total Return Index;
for the other half:
average rate from
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my final 
decision8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as appears to
be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr S provides an 
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Wellington 
Court should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP and 
prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investment needs to be removed. If
Wellington Court cant do this, Mr S is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant buy the investment, it should pay
an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current full tariff. This is in addition
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
I also think Wellington Court should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman