DRN-2634557
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a Platinum account 
in September 2017. 
Miss M paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Miss M 
says that she was told that she had to take out this account in order to get a large overdraft 
facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms complaint. They did not think that the Platinum 
account was mis-sold. Miss M did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to 
look at the complaint. 
I can see that Miss M has also raised concerns with us that she was provided with an 
overdraft that was unaffordable to her. I cant see that BOS has been given the opportunity 
to look into this issue. So if Miss M remains concerned with this matter, she would need to 
direct her concerns back to BOS so they can be looked into, before our service would be 
able to consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Miss Ms complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Miss M, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she 
was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come 
to this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Miss M was aware the Platinum account was optional 
and whether she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely 
than not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account 
with BOS for many years. So, I think that Miss M wouldve been aware that free accounts 
existed and were an option for her. 
Miss M says she was told by a member of staff on the phone that if she changed her 
account to the Platinum account it would give her a chance in obtaining a larger overdraft. I 
can see though that the account, when it was upgraded to the Platinum account from the 
fee-free account, was taken out online without the presence of a member of staff. I find it 
unlikely that a member of staff would intentionally mis-lead Miss M into taking out a Platinum 
account if the account was not to be taken out over the phone - as I cant see how this would 
benefit the member of staff, since they would not receive credit or recognition for the 
upgrade.
Additionally, during the online upgrade process, the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted. I am of the understanding that there would have been no 
mention of the account improving Miss Ms chances in obtaining an overdraft. So, if this was 
the major reason for her to upgrade to the Platinum account, the absence of anything 
mentioning an improvement to her chances of obtaining a large overdraft shouldve made 
her question if what she says she was told was true.
I accept that Miss M may have been under the impression that having the Platinum account 
would improve her chances of getting a larger overdraft, but there is not enough for me to 
say that this was as a direct result of her being told this by BOS.
I note that Miss M says that, at the time she took out the account, she thought that the 
benefits that it came with were good value for money. So I think that it is likely she took out 
the account because of the package of benefits that it came with, rather than because she 
was told by BOS that she needed the account to have a larger overdraft.
This account was not recommended to Miss M. This means that BOS did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Miss M. But it did need to provide Miss M with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
I think its likely BOS wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as it 
was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Miss M. I accept that Miss M 
may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I 
cant see anything about her circumstances at the time that makes me think she wouldve 
been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more information about it. 
Miss M has said that the cost of the account has increased over the years that she has held 
it, but she was not made aware of this. I have carefully considered this but I can see that 
BOS did send Miss M a yearly reminder of the cost and benefits that the account came with. 
And I can see that the account fee is listed on her monthly account statements, so overall I 
think that it is likely that the increase in costs wouldve been communicated to her.
Miss M says that she tried to cancel her account but was forced to keep it. I cant see any 
formal requests for a downgrade in BOSs records until the account was actually 
downgraded in December 2020. So based on the evidence I have been provided with, I cant 
say BOS did anything wrong in relation to this.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold 
to Miss M. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require BOS to refund Miss M the 
account fees that shes been charged whilst shes held the Platinum account. I completely 
understand that this will be frustrating to Miss M, as she strongly feels that her account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the Platinum account may not 
have represented good value for money to her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this. I 
can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman