The complaint
Mr A says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly lent to 
him.    
What happened?
This complaint is about six instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr A between January 
2015 and May 2019. Mr As borrowing history is outlined below: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 22/01/2015 27/03/2015 13 weeks £200.00 £43.08
Break
2 16/09/2017 15/02/2018 7 £450.00 £128.25
3 10/11/2017 28/09/2018 10 £400.00 £208.25
4 11/04/2018 11/12/2018 12 £510.00 £164.66
5 09/12/2018 04/04/2019 12 £1,500.00 £333.66
6 29/05/2019 outstanding 12 £2,000.00 £332.00
Our adjudicator thought loan 6 shouldnt have been given because the overall pattern of    
Mr As borrowing indicated he was reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming 
unsustainable. 
Satsuma didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment, but it looks like Satsuma has since 
made an offer to Mr A, but Mr A asked for a final decision.  
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
DRN-1700780What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr As complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
There was a significant break in Mr As borrowing from Satsuma. There was a gap of around 
two and a half years between loans 1 and 2. I think it would be reasonable for Satsuma to 
view this gap as an indication that Mr As finances had stabilised after whatever the 
circumstances were that had caused him to take out his previous loan. So, I will look at Mr 
As borrowing in two separate lending chains. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint about loans 1 to 5. Mr A hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr As case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. For this chain of borrowing, Mr A had taken out five loans in eight 
months. So, it should have realised it was more likely than not Mr A was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr As indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. I think this was 
shown by the fact loan 6 remains outstanding. 
Mr As first loan in this chain (so loan 2) was for £450 and his sixth one was for 
£2,000. By now Satsuma ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr A was 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing 
need. 
 
 
I think that Mr A lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing at loan 6 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr As ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im upholding Mr As complaint about loan 6. 
Putting things right  what Provident Personal Credit Limited needs to do
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding debt Satsuma should buy it back if Satsuma is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Satsuma cant buy the debt back, then Satsuma 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 6, not including anything Satsuma has already refunded.
B) Satsuma should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Mr A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Satsuma should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr A having made 
overpayments then Satsuma should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Satsuma should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus,
then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance
then Satsuma should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. Satsuma
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Satsuma has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded about
it is adverse, so Satsuma should remove this loan entirely from Mr As credit file. Satsuma
does not have to remove the outstanding loans from Mr As credit file until this has been
repaid, but Satsuma should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Provident Personal Credit Limited must give Mr A a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr As complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman