DRN-2576742
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
October 1998. Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them MPPI.
The MPPI policy was set up to provide Mr G with 60% of the monthly benefit in the event of 
a successful claim, and 40% of the monthly benefit for Mrs G. The monthly cost of the policy 
was £37.98, and it provided a total monthly benefit of £520.50. It also provided an additional 
benefit of £3 for every £1,000 originally borrowed. This would have been paid for up to 12 
months per claim for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs mis-sale complaint should be upheld. 
However, he did ask Lloyds if it would make an offer to Mr and Mrs G in recognition of 
the poor customer service they say they received. Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs G £50 for 
the poor handling of their complaint.  Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this offer and didnt 
agree with the adjudicators review of the complaint. 
The complaint has now been passed to me  an ombudsman - to issue a final decision 
on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Gs consent 
before adding the policy. Mr and Mrs G say they have no recollection of being given a 
choice about the MPPI and it being properly discussed with them. As the mortgage and 
MPPI were sold so long ago Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments alongside the 
information we have from the time of sale to decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Lloyds has provided us with a copy of the MPPI proposal form that was completed at the 
time. This form contains details of their personal circumstances and indicates a discussion 
took place about Mr and Mrs Gs needs. A recommendation has been made for the MPPI to 
be purchased and for it to cover both Mr and Mrs G. Based on what we know about how 
MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations with the Lloyds advisor to reflect the 
details within this proposal form. The form is entirely separate from any paperwork 
connected to the mortgage and if Mr and Mrs G werent sure about the cover, its likely they 
would have had an opportunity to query it before agreeing to the cover. 
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs G knew 
at the time that the MPPI was optional and they decided to take it. But I can understand 
why they might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them. Looking at their circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable for them. I 
say this because:
Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem Mr and Mrs G were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldve received sick pay for between six and twelve 
months from their respective employers at the time. They also say they wouldve 
received redundancy pay. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr G or Mrs 
G was off work due to accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for this long if 
either of them lost their job. This means Mr and Mrs G wouldve had peace of mind 
that part of their mortgage payment would be covered, and any employer benefits 
could be used to help cover every day expenses or other financial commitments. 
Mr and Mrs G say they also wouldve received a death in service benefit. This 
provides a benefit in different circumstances to the MPPI, which specifically wouldve 
helped pay part of their mortgage repayment in the event accident, sickness and 
unemployment. So, even with their work benefits I still think the MPPI wouldve been 
useful for Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which 
was secured on their home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that part of the 
repayments wouldve been made if either of them was unable to work wouldve been 
important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs G. And as the 
policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled the 
policy if it no longer met their needs. I can see Mr and Mrs G did indeed cancel the 
MPPI in 2000.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them 
off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said, including their comments about their 
other complaints about Lloyds being found in their favour. I appreciate this, but every case 
is looked at on an induvial basis by our service so these other cases wouldnt have any 
bearing on this particular case. 
So, Mr and Mrs Gs points dont change my view and I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, as they clearly feel strongly about their 
complaint. But I hope my decision clearly addresses their concerns.
Lastly, Lloyds offer of £50 is still available to Mr and Mrs G if they wish to accept it. They 
can do this by contacting Lloyds directly.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman