DRN-1886455
 
The complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr D says Lloyds 
Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr D took out a Lloyds credit card, at the same time he was sold a PPI policy.
What happened
Mr D applied for the credit card in 1997. From what Ive seen it is most likely Mr D applied for 
the card and was sold the PPI at a branch.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Lloyds hasnt been able to send all the paperwork from the time. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From experience Im aware that the type of application form Mr D most likely completed in 
1997 wouldve given him the option to accept or decline the PPI by ticking or crossing a box 
to accept PPI or ticking a box to decline it. And the PPI remained on his account for several 
years. During this time the premiums wouldve appeared on his monthly statements as 
purchases. So if Mr D hadnt wanted the PPI or hadnt chosen to add it his account, Id 
expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But I havent seen any evidence that he 
did.
So, weighing everything up, I think Lloyds most likely made it clear that Mr D didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this after so long.
Lloyds has said that its representative shouldve recommended the PPI to Mr D. In that case 
Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because:Mr D appears to have been eligible for the policy, so hed have been able to make a claim if 
he needed to.
The policies did contain some exclusions on the PPI cover, but Mr D doesnt seem to have 
been affected by these. For example hes told us he had no existing medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr D has told us hed receive full sick pay from his employer for up to six months followed by 
half pay for a further six months. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mr D couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in addition to any sick pay. So I 
still think Mr D would find the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly if he was unable 
to work for a prolonged period.
The policy would also pay a monthly benefit if Mr D had lost his job. Meaning Mr D could use 
any redundancy pay on other living costs.
Mr D has said he could have relied on his partner to help if he became unwell or lost his job. 
But if Mr D was unable to work for a lengthy spell its likely the household income would 
have been reduced so I still think he would have found the policy useful if things went wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the policy.
In summary I think its most likely Mr D chose to take out the PPI knowing he had a choice. 
And I think the cover was right for him. And even if Lloyds had given Mr D all the clear 
information it should have, I still think hed have gone ahead and bought it.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13July2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman