DRN-3611875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they received unsuitable investment advice from Fairstone 
Financial Management Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary, our Investigator felt the advice was too risky for Mr and Mrs M so they 
upheld the complaint. Mr and Mrs M accepted our Investigators view but Fairstone didnt. 
To summarise, Fairstone said Mr and Mrs M were aware investments could go up or down 
and they wanted to invest in the long term and their risk rating and the fund they invested in 
were both suitable. Fairstone said the main issue is that Mr and Mrs M decided to withdraw 
from the fund too early when it was recommended to be held for at least five years. The 
events are not in dispute so I will focus on giving my reasons for this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator. Im upholding this complaint because I dont 
think the advice Fairstone gave Mr and Mrs M was suitable for them. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk
During the fact finding process in 2016 Mr and Mrs M completed a risk profiling 
questionnaire which gave them an overall risk score. The scores available were on a scale 
of 1 to 10 with 1 being risk averse and 10 being the highest risk. The idea of the 
questionnaire is that it gives a representative overview of Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk. Mrs 
Ms answers produced just enough points to be at risk level 3. Mr Ms answers showed he 
was at risk level 4. The fact find shows that the agreed risk level was 4. Ive looked closely at 
the answers Mr and Mrs M gave to determine whether they did have an attitude to risk of 
lowest medium as Fairstone termed it.
Mrs Ms answers do not show she was comfortable taking risk with her finances. The table 
below shows a snapshot of answers which I think demonstrates this:
Question Mrs Ms answer
I would be willing to risk a percentage of my income/capital in 
order to get a good return on an investmentStrongly disagree
I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of 
return than be uncertain about my investmentsStrongly agree
I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in 
sharesAgree
I would feel comfortable investing in shares Disagree
Overall how would you place yourself on the following scale? Risk Averse
The above answers show that Mrs M wasnt comfortable taking financial risk, and so I dont 
think it was suitable to suggest she had a risk rating of 4/10 lowest medium.
I now turn to Mr Ms answers which I think at times were contradictory but overall give the 
impression he also wasnt comfortable taking much financial risk.
Question Mr Ms answer
I would be willing to risk a percentage of my income/capital in 
order to get a good return on an investmentDisagree
I would rather know that I was getting a guaranteed rate of 
return than be uncertain about my investmentsStrongly agree
I would rather put my money in a bank account than invest in 
sharesStrongly Agree
I would feel comfortable investing in shares Disagree
Overall how would you place yourself on the following scale? Neither risk averse nor a 
risk taker
I think that looking closely at the actual answers Mr and Mrs M provided, I dont think it was 
suitable for their agreed risk level to be 4/10. Overall, these are people that clearly werent 
comfortable with taking much risk. I do acknowledge however that they were looking for a 
better return on their capital than they could get in their bank account, but classing them at a 
risk level of 4/10 appears to be unsuitable based on their answers.
The advice
Fairstone advised Mr and Mrs M to invest in a fund that had a risk rating of 4/7. That is 
something that Id imagine is a medium risk investment. Fairstone hasnt been able to 
provide what assets the fund invested in but I think its reasonable to assume that a fund that 
rates itself as 4/7 is likely a medium risk investment  and so to recommend this to Mr and 
Mrs M, first time investors aside from having pensions, with the knowledge of their answers 
above is unsuitable.
Fairstone has said that it offered fund switches when Mr and Mrs M felt uneasy about the 
losses their investments made, but they later chose to close them. I think this likely supports 
the fact they werent comfortable with losing money on their investments.
I do appreciate they were looking for more growth than they could get in their bank account, 
and I think that Mr and Mrs M were looking to take a small level of risk with some of their 
money. And I accept Mr and Mrs M had capacity for loss. But Fairstones advice exposed Mr 
and Mrs M to more risk than they were willing to take, and I think thats clear from their 
answers to their risk profiling questionnaire. As such, the advice was unsuitable for them.
Before I move on to redress I have noted that it was important to Mr and Mrs M to have the 
same investments. So, whilst I think Mrs M was risk averse (and clearly said so) I do think 
its likely theyd have made the decision to take a small amount of risk with their savings 
given Mr M was keen to get a better return than they could get in the bank. And I think, as 
they shared decisions over their finances, its likely theyd have always ended up investing in 
identical ways to eachother had suitable advice been given, rather than separately. So, in 
this case, Ive assumed theyd have taken the same advice had it been suitable given what 
is recorded about them at the point of sale and throughout the complaint.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must Fairstone do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, Fairstone must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Fairstone should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mr and Mrs M £300 for the distress caused to Mr and Mrs M at seing the 
losses they didn't expect from the type of investment they wanted. They weren't 
comfortable taking the level of risk their money was exposed to so the losses 
would've caused them worry and upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Aviva 
Investors 
Multi-
Strategy 
Target 
Return 5 
Acc FundNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Fairstone 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs M into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs M would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs M could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Fairstone Financial Management Limited should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Fairstone Financial Management Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and 
Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman