DRN-3611281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Whilst the insurance policy is in both Mr and Mrs Hs name, for ease of reading, I will refer 
only to Mr H as its his claim.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In 2019, Mr H made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy regarding a dispute 
with his former employer. Aviva requested further information to assess the claim but didnt 
receive a response. So the claim was closed.
In 2021, Mr H reverted to Aviva and asked for his claim to be reopened. He said he wanted 
to instruct legal representatives of his own choice, on the basis that his claim is complex and 
that he required adjustments for his medical conditions.
Aviva agreed to allow Mr H freedom of choice under the policy. But it said it needed the 
further information previously requested and that it would seek a legal opinion from counsel 
to determine whether the claim could be accepted.
Mr H was unhappy with Aviva obtaining a legal opinion from its own counsel, as he said this 
goes against his freedom to choose his own legal representatives. So Aviva asked Mr H to 
obtain a quote for a barrister of his own choice.
A quote was provided at over £6,000 for both the solicitor and barristers fees to obtain the 
opinion. Aviva said this was too high, and that it could obtain an opinion for £270. So it 
declined Mr Hs request.
Mr H raised a complaint about this and about how hed been treated by Avivas staff. He 
asked to change claim handler, but this request was declined. Aviva rejected the complaint 
and advised Mr H that due to many unproductive telephone conversations it was no longer 
prepared to speak to him, and all correspondence going forward must be in writing.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Since that time, Aviva and Mr Hs chosen solicitor 
have agreed a quote for a barrister at £1,000 plus VAT. But it has also come to light, through 
a subject access request, that Aviva couldnt obtain its own counsels opinion for £270. Mr H 
feels hes been misled.
Our investigator recommended that Aviva proceed with the counsels opinion quoted at 
£1,000 plus VAT. She also felt the decision to cease phone contact from Mr H was 
premature and didnt take into account his medical conditions. So she asked that this be 
revoked.
Aviva didnt accept this. It said it had a duty of care to its staff and that calls with Mr H had 
become rude and personal in nature. It also said the amount of contact it was receiving from 
Mr H was unreasonable. And whilst it wasnt terminating contact altogether, it considered 
written communication to be a more appropriate arrangement.
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in 
June 2022, which said:
Freedom of choice
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs legal expenses insurance policy say that he has freedom 
to choose his own lawyer if court proceedings are issued, there is a conflict of interest or if 
[Aviva] consider the claim to be complex and requiring a specialist lawyer.
Aviva agrees that the claim is complex, therefore it has allowed Mr H freedom of choice.
However, Aviva said it would obtain a legal opinion from its own preferred counsel. And Mr H 
believes this contradicts his freedom to choose his own lawyers. But I think there has been 
some confusion here.
Freedom of choice under a legal expenses insurance policy enables Mr H to choose the 
lawyers that will represent and act for him on his claim. And until the claim is accepted, there 
is no cover under the policy for any legal costs.
The purpose of the counsels opinion is to determine whether the claim can be accepted. Its 
a requirement of cover that a claim must enjoy reasonable prospects of success and be 
proportionate to pursue. And its common practice that an insurer will obtain counsels advice 
on whether these requirements have been met.
As counsel was not being instructed to represent or act for Mr H, and the claim hadnt been 
accepted at that stage, I dont agree that his freedom to choose his own solicitor was being 
restricted. Aviva is entitled to assess the claim under the policy terms and freedom of choice 
is not effective until the claim is accepted.
Im pleased to see that Aviva has tried to accommodate Mr H by considering a quote for his 
chosen barrister, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
Cost of assessment
Mr H provided a quote of over £6,000 to obtain the legal assessment. Aviva said this was too 
high based on what it would usually pay for counsels advice.
Im satisfied this was fair. Aviva has a duty to ensure costs are reasonably incurred and 
given its experience in managing legal expenses claims, Ive no reason to distrust its 
judgement on what is considered to be a fair price for a counsels opinion.
However, Aviva said it could obtain an opinion for £270. And its come to light that this wasnt 
the case. An email from its panel firm confirmed that due to the complex nature of the claim, 
the advice would cost more than the usual fixed rate.
I appreciate Mr H feels misled. But I dont think that just because Aviva cant obtain an 
opinion for £270, his quote for over £6,000 is reasonable. I agree that Aviva shouldve checked with its panel firm before stating what it would pay. But even if it did, Im not 
persuaded the advice wouldve cost in the region of what Mr H had been quoted.
Aviva and Mr Hs solicitor have now agreed to £1,000 plus VAT for obtaining counsels 
advice. And I think this is reasonable given that the claim hasnt been accepted under the 
policy yet.
Telephone contact
Mr H complains about the way Avivas staff have treated him on the phone. He says hes 
been humiliated and made to feel rubbish. And that he was verbally abused by a manager. 
Hes asked to change claims handler but was told no.
Aviva says Mr Hs calls are unproductive and frequent. It says he regularly requests to speak 
to a manager if he doesnt get the answer he wants. And that calls have had to be 
terminated due to them becoming personal in nature. In addition, it says Mr H has recorded 
calls without permission.
Having listened to the calls, Im not persuaded that the claims handler acted unfairly. And 
whilst I havent heard anything which suggests to me that Avivas staff have verbally abused 
and humiliated Mr H, I do think the call with the manager was not handled as well as it 
couldve been and feedback should be provided to this member of staff.
I think Aviva couldve done more to understand Mr Hs medical conditions and make 
adjustments to how its staff engage with him. But I agree the calls have been unproductive 
at times and Aviva should not have to tolerate unreasonable behaviour towards its staff.
Taking everything into account, I do think its in the best interests of both parties that 
communication is in writing going forwards. Its clear that Mr H has found these calls 
distressing and whilst I appreciate he doesnt want to be restricted on how he contacts his 
insurer, Im mindful that the calls arent helpful to him or Avivas staff, nor to the progression 
of his claims.
Its for this reason that Im not asking Aviva to revoke its decision to limit contact with Mr H to 
writing only. And Ive seen no justified reason why it should change claims handler.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said feedback was being given to the manager regarding the telephone call, and it had 
no further comments to add.
Mr H didnt accept my decision and he raised the following points:
The quality of Avivas written responses doesnt allow for the correct progression of 
his claims. 
Avivas conduct has had a negative impact on his mental health resulting in him 
seeking medical help. 
Hed had to make a subject access request in order to discover wrongdoing, he was 
misled about counsels fees and there have been no consequences to Aviva for this.
I havent taken into account the judgement of Brown-Quinn when considering 
freedom of choice.I havent taken into account the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance in 
relation to vulnerable customers and didnt consider how my decision might impact 
his disability. In addition, I didnt consider giving him a single point of contact at 
Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Freedom of choice
I dont consider the case law of Brown-Quinn to be relevant here. I say this because Aviva 
hasnt refused Mr Hs freedom of choice or tried to limit it in any way. 
As Ive explained, the legal assessment on prospects is to determine whether or not his 
claim can be accepted under the policy. As freedom of choice is available in respect to 
Mr Hs legal representation, once a claim has been accepted, Im not persuaded Avivas 
decision to obtain the legal assessment from its preferred counsel has any bearing on this.
In any event, Mr H has subsequently been allowed to obtain the legal assessment from a 
barrister of his own choosing, with Aviva meeting these costs. So Im satisfied this matter is 
resolved.
Cost of assessment
Ive considered Mr Hs comments and I appreciate why he feels misled about the costs of 
counsels advice. Whilst I understand he wants there to be consequences for Aviva, its not 
my role to fine or punish businesses for wrongdoing. 
If I find that a business has done something wrong or unfair, I expect it to put the customer 
back in the position they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. And if the 
wrongdoing has had an impact on the customer, the business should compensate them.
In this case, Aviva said it wouldnt pay over £6,000 for counsels advice as these costs were 
excessive. And that it could obtain it for £270. As Ive explained, although Aviva later found 
out its preferred counsel wouldnt be able to assess a case under the usual fixed fee due to 
the complexity, it doesnt mean that Mr Hs quote of over £6,000 wasnt excessive. 
The fact that Mr H has now received a quote at £1,000 demonstrates that an assessment 
could be obtained for less. And as Aviva went on to accept the revised quote, I think this 
indicates that it was behaving reasonably. 
As such, I dont believe Mr H suffered an impact which warrants an award of compensation. I 
say this because its Avivas role to manage the limit of indemnity available under Mr Hs 
policy. And once that limit has been used up  or when costs incurred become 
disproportionate  no further funding is available. So its in Mr Hs best interests that legal 
costs are spent wisely. 
Telephone contact and customer service
Ive considered Mr Hs comments regarding Avivas conduct and the impact this is having on 
his mental wellbeing. And Im sorry if he feels I didnt take into account his disability when 
coming to my decision. Id like to assure him that I did. In my provisional decision, I explained it was clear to me that Mr H found calls with Aviva 
distressing. This is evidenced by his complaints and continued requests for matters to be 
escalated to management. Its for this reason that I considered it in his best interests to 
correspond in writing. 
I also considered it in the best interests of Avivas staff as well. This is because Aviva has a 
duty of care to its staff and must safeguard them against abusive behaviour.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said, as well as considering both the FCAs and our 
approach to vulnerable customers. Ive also made further enquiries with Aviva to see if there 
is anything more it could do to support Mr H.
Aviva says it will often make reasonable adjustments for vulnerable customers, such as 
putting in place a single point of contact. But in Mr Hs case, it believes this would put 
unnecessary stress on an individual member of staff and that the individual would likely need 
to be changed regularly, due to the impact of Mr Hs conduct. 
But whilst Aviva doesnt agree that phone contact should be reinstated, it does acknowledge 
that it shouldve taken more steps to warn Mr H of the consequences of his behaviour before 
making the decision to withdraw it. 
Taking everything into account, Im still not persuaded that its fair to direct Aviva to reinstate 
phone contact with Mr H. Aviva is required to make reasonable adjustments for their 
customers where needed, but these adjustments do have to be reasonable. I cant agree 
that speaking to Mr H on the phone, where calls have become rude and personal in nature, 
is a reasonable adjustment.
Whilst I appreciate his medical conditions and the impact this decision has on him; Im 
satisfied Mr H has a solicitor of his own choice representing him who is dealing with his 
claim. As such, any update on the day to day running of his claim would need to be directed 
to his solicitor in any event. And any queries or clarification he requires about his policy 
cover can be made to Aviva through his solicitor or by email.
I am mindful that, by Avivas own admission, the decision to withdraw phone contact was 
made quickly and without warning. But had warnings been given as to the consequences of 
his behaviour, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr Hs behaviour wouldve 
improved. So I do think phone contact wouldve been withdrawn eventually in any event. 
In recognition of the failure to follow a fair process, Im recommending that Aviva pay £200 
compensation. I think this is fair given that had a fair process been followed, the outcome is 
most likely to have been the same. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, I do think Aviva couldve done more to understand 
Mr Hs medical conditions. And I would suggest that it start a conversation with Mr H  in 
writing  about how it can accommodate this in its written communication going forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint in part and directing Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr H compensation of £200 in recognition of its failure to follow a 
fair process when removing phone contact. This must be paid within 28 days of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman