DRN-2009929
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank and 
hereafter referred to as Tesco) handled his credit card account after fraudulent transactions 
were reported.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card account with Tesco that hed stopped using, having paid off the 
balance in full in August 2019.
On 4 December 2019 Mr S became aware of transactions on his account hed not made or 
authorised. He was prompted to act as a result of contact from Tesco as they suspected his 
account might be being misused. Mr S spoke with Tesco and confirmed the transactions to 
be fraudulent and it started an investigation.
By this time Tesco had already taken a payment of £560 from Mr S current account by way 
of an existing Direct Debit instruction. A further direct debit payment was then taken on 
17 December 2019.
Mr S had the second Direct Debit refunded under the guarantee scheme, having raised the 
issue with his current account provider. 
Tesco refunded the disputed transactions on 30 December 2019, along with some 
associated interest and charges that had accrued on the account. Mr S wasnt happy with 
how things had been handled, including the Direct Debit collection and the interest and 
charges that had been applied. He didnt think it was fair Tesco had acted the way it did, 
given hed reported the transactions as fraudulent. He didnt think Tesco had completely 
settled the account. He asked for the account to be closed.
Tesco issued Mr S with a final response to explain its actions. Mr S remained dissatisfied 
and brought his complaint to our service on 1 February 2020. He continued to contact Tesco 
 after the final response and following referring the case to us  as further charges had 
been added to his account and it remained open.
The balance of the account was ultimately returned to zero on 21 February 2020. 
In discussing this complain with Mr S, hes told us:
This whole thing has been a massive waste of my time and very stressful and they 
continue to hold £13.60 of my money and will not set my card back to a zero balance 
as it was before the fraud took place
What I find egregious is how they then kept adding silly charges on to my bill [.] 
when what should have been the end of it was to just simply refund me in full and 
close the account once the fraud was confirmed as genuine. [] they should 
probably apologise for wasting my time, holding on to my money for far longer than 
necessary and for, what I feel, was quite a dismissive and deliberately obtuse 
response to my initial complaints
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
recognised a need for Tesco to investigate the fraudulent transactions and that there would 
also be a certain amount if inconvenience involved in any such case. But he didnt think 
Tesco had handled the matter as well as it could have.
He thought Tesco could have resolved things more quickly, could have prevented the 
second Direct Debit from being taken, and could have stopped interest and charges from 
being added to the account. He noted Tesco had been at least somewhat on notice of the 
fraud before contact with Mr S, given its actions in replacing his card. He also noted the 
need for Mr S to continue to follow up with Tesco to draw the matter to a complete close. 
The investigator recommended a payment of £100 in compensation as a result.
Tesco disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It said it handled the claim 
in good time and wouldnt normally stop interest and charges accruing. It also said it had 
collected the Direct Debits in line with existing instructions which hadnt been cancelled at 
the time payments were collected.
The case was passed to me for a final decision. I contacted Tesco to see if it was willing to 
make the offer suggested by the investigator. I said I agreed it could have done more in 
refunding the transactions more quickly or it might have placed them in dispute. I also said I 
thought it had taken too long to fully resolve the matter, given the fraud was reported on 
4 December 2019 but the final adjustment to the account wasnt made until 21 
February 2020. 
Tesco declined to offer the £100, maintaining the original position on what it thought the 
outcome should be and why. It also said, among other things, the following:
Your role is to determine whether we have acted fairly within the Terms and Conditions we 
have set as a business; you've failed to point out where in fact we've breached this.
You have added elements to this complaint that weren't within the original declaration as it 
is your offices opinion that we have caused undue delays however, I've clearly demonstrated 
that this has not been the case.
We became aware of the fraudulent activity in early December which we then refunded 
immediately pending investigation.
Im now issuing my final decision as Tesco didnt agree to settle the case informally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im upholding the complaint.I dont intend to repeat in detail reasoning thats already been set out in the background. I 
accept Tesco was entitled to carry out a fraud investigation and it appears it wasnt at fault 
for the collection of the two Direct Debit payments.
That said I do still believe they could have done more to resolve the situation sooner. I 
suggested to Tesco it could have refunded the transactions temporarily or placed them into 
dispute so that they wouldnt attract interest and charges, particularly as it had flagged 
concerns about the spending. Tesco has said it isnt its policy to do so. Its not for me to 
change Tescos own policies and procedures. But where a firms decision leads to some 
form of customer detriment then it might be the case, as I find it is here, that Tesco needs to 
do something to put matters right.
I think its important to clarify that my decision doesnt only turn on Tescos decision to not 
provisionally refund (or put into dispute) the transactions. I find the poor handling of the claim 
lasted beyond Tescos fraud investigation.
Ive not been presented with a fair and reasonable argument for why it took Tesco until the 
end of February 2020  almost three months after the report of fraud  to finally restore the 
account to the position it ought to have been in. Its true that Mr S had received his money 
back before that point. But its clear the account was still having new charges applied to it 
after the fraud investigation as complete. Mr S was aware of this and was eager to get 
matters resolved, hence his continued contact with Tesco. It very much seems to me he 
oughtnt have needed to pursue his complaint beyond the end of December, when Tesco 
said it had resolved matters for him.
Ill also take the opportunity to address some of the other arguments Tesco made in defence 
of this case.
Tesco said:
Your role is to determine whether we have acted fairly within the Terms and Conditions we 
have set as a business; you've failed to point out where in fact we've breached this.
Im afraid Tesco has fundamentally misunderstood our role and remit in resolving 
complaints. We take account of relevant law and regulations, applicable terms and 
conditions and good industry practice when we consider a complaint in determining, overall, 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. We arent limited to 
considering whether a firm has breached account terms and conditions or not.
Tesco said:
 
You have added elements to this complaint that weren't within the original declaration as it 
is your offices opinion that we have caused undue delays however, I've clearly demonstrated 
that this has not been the case.
This clearly isnt correct, as shown in the background where Ive set out what Mr S has told 
us when discussing the case. Its also true that we have an inquisitorial remit. We may 
consider elements of a complaint that a customer hasnt specifically raised, but have an 
important bearing on the overall outcome.
Its also the case that Tesco failed to fully settle this matter at the point of issuing its final 
response. It didnt do so for another two months. And so its understandable there have been 
aspects of the complaint that have developed since it was first brought to us, namely the ongoing delays experienced by Mr S. And I simply disagree with the last part of the above 
statement for the reasons set out in my earlier findings.
Tesco said:
We became aware of the fraudulent activity in early December which we then refunded 
immediately pending investigation.
This statement would appear to be erroneous as the transactions werent refunded 
immediately pending investigation. That isnt what the evidence shows. And that very issue 
has been the main driver for  and cause of  the complaint. The transactions werent 
refunded until 30 December 2020, instead attracting interest and charges on the account 
and prompting the second Direct Debit payment. Had the transactions been refunded 
immediately pending an investigation it seems the complaint wouldnt have materialised at 
all.
 
Putting things right
I believe Tesco could have resolved this matter much sooner and Mr S was put through 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience, beyond that caused by the fraud itself.
I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr S £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC and direct it to pay the redress 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman