DRN-3309085
The complaint
Mr R complains about Southern Rock Insurance Companys (Southern) handling of his claim 
about a non-fault accident under his motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Southern includes its agents and contractors. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr R was involved in a collision where another vehicle drove into the back of 
his car. He contacted his insurance broker and an accident management company was 
appointed to manage his claim. Southern contacted Mr R a few days later when it became 
aware of the claim through an agent affiliated to Mr Rs broker.  
The accident management company was unable to proceed with Mr Rs claim. He says it 
told him it was uneconomical to repair. This was because of the cost of repairs was too high 
when considering the market value of his car. Mr Rs car was still considered driveable 
despite the damage. 
Mr R was contacted by Southern by text message to say its salvage company would be 
progressing his claim. He didnt want to deal with this company and didnt allow it to collect 
his car. Mr R told Southern the garage hed been referred to had already determined the car 
was a total loss, and no courtesy car would be provided. He didnt understand why a salvage 
company would need to collect it. 
Southern advised the car had to be inspected by its engineer/salvage company to determine 
its condition. If it was a total loss this company would determine a settlement offer. Southern 
says as Mr R didnt want its salvage company to take his car for inspection, it didnt proceed 
with his claim.
Mr R contacted Southern In January 2021 unsure why no progress had been made with his 
claim. He says the number of companies involved was confusing and the situation hadnt 
been clearly explained. At this time, he says Southern suggested he claimed directly with the 
third-party insurer, as it had admitted liability for the accident.
Mr R contacted Southern again in February 2021. Southern says it explained that numerous 
contacts had been attempted to arrange collection of his car. This was necessary to 
progress his claim under the cover provided by its policy. Mr R complained and Southern 
apologised that the situation had been confusing for him. But it wasnt responsible for the 
actions of the accident management company, and it couldnt progress a claim without 
inspecting the damage to his car. 
Mr R decided to refer his complaint to our service. He didnt think Southern handled his claim 
fairly because of the poor communication and delays. He thought he was due to receive a 
refund of premiums and the settlement payment from the third-party insurer was too low, 
because of delays caused by Southern. 
Our investigator thought the situation had been confusing for Mr R because of the number of 
different companies that had been involved. She thought Southern couldve communicated 
better around this point and it should pay £100 compensation. However, she listened to the 
calls between Southern and Mr R and thought it had been clear in explaining its 
salvage/engineer company needed to see the car to progress the claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr R had shown a refund of premiums was appropriate as the 
car was still in his possession and driveable. She also didnt think Mr R had shown he had 
received a lower settlement payment because of inaction by Southern.   
Mr R didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. I wont be adding to the 
resolution our investigator set out, which I understand will be a disappointment to Mr R, but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Its clear that Mr Rs first contact was with his broker after his accident. From here an 
accident management company dealt with the matter. Southern isnt responsible for the 
actions of the accident management company or the broker. I wont be considering their 
actions here. My focus is on whether Southern treated Mr R fairly in its involvement in 
handling his claim. 
I understand it was confusing for Mr R that several different companies contacted him and 
became involved in his claim. I have read all the correspondence provided and listened to 
the available call recordings to understand what happened here.  
The accident management company ceased its involvement when it determined the car was 
a total loss around a week after the accident occurred. Mr R says it told him his insurer 
would make him an offer for the car. From his account of events its apparent he confused 
contact from Southerns claims handler, in early September 2020, with that of the accident 
management company. This is apparent from the call recordings I have listened to. 
I can see that a text message was sent to Mr R in mid-August 2020 confirming the salvage 
company had been instructed to handle the claim. Southern then called him in early 
September to advise his car had to be collected. I have listened to this call. Mr R explains 
that he doesnt want to allow the salvage company to take his car. He says if the garage has 
already confirmed its a total loss his insurer should provide him with a valuation. 
Mr R explains that many different parties have been involved and he is confused. Southerns 
claim hander confirms it hasnt yet instructed a garage but its engineers at the salvage 
company will assess whether the car is a total loss and provide a valuation if this is needed. 
The call handler explains she is acting on behalf of Mr Rs insurer. This is in response to his 
comments that he is waiting for a valuation from them. The call concludes with Mr R saying 
he will find out more information, and the call handler agrees to call back. 
Two days later the same call handler calls Mr R back. He says he hasnt found out who 
inspected the car. Mr R asks a number of times who the car belongs to. The call handler 
confirms to Mr R that he is the owner several times in response. Mr R says he wont release the car until his insurer contacts him to tell him how much he will be paid for his vehicle. He 
says he will be talking to his insurance company and doesnt want to have this conversation 
anymore. The call handler says she will cancel off his claim, until he lets them know when he 
would like to continue with it.          
Mr R contacted Southern at the end of January 2021. From the call recording he explains 
that he doesnt know who the salvage company is. He says he was told his claim would be 
put on hold. The call handler explains that no claim has been registered. He discusses how it 
can be confusing when different companies have been involved in a claim. The call handler 
suggests that Mr R contacts the third-party insurer as it has already accepted liability for the 
accident, and this will be the easiest way to obtain a settlement payment. He provides Mr R 
with contact details for the third-party insurer.
I have listened to a further call in February 2021 when Mr R contacts Southern again. The 
same points are discussed. The call handler explains Southerns salvage company would 
need to collect the car to assess the damage and whether a repair was possible. If it was a 
total loss a settlement offer would be made. The call handler explains Southern has no 
association with the accident management company. It explains to Mr R that his car remains 
his property when being inspected. And if he didnt accept a settlement offer, he could have 
the car returned to him. 
Following this call Mr R made a complaint. I understand he has since obtained a settlement 
payment from the third-party insurer. But feels the offer is too low because of Southerns 
delays and that he should receive a refund of insurance premiums.
I have sympathy with Mr R that he found the situation confusing. Particularly when multiple 
different companies were contacting him. I think Southern couldve been clearer in 
communicating its process at an earlier juncture. But based on the evidence, including the 
call recordings I have listened to, I think its process was made clear in early September 
2020. At this time Mr R was made aware his insurer needed to collect and inspect his car for 
his claim to progress.
I acknowledge Mr Rs comments that his settlement payment is too low. But Southern didnt 
provide the settlement payment, the third-party insurer did. The industry practice for valuing 
a car in these circumstances is to calculate this from around the time of the accident. I dont 
accept that Southern caused a delay in the claim being handled. But this shouldnt impact on 
the valuation in any case. If Mr R has concerns, he can contact the third-party insurer to 
query the date it used for its valuation. But I dont think hes shown that Southern has caused 
his settlement payment to be less than it should be. 
Mr R retained his car after the accident and continued to be insured by Southern. I dont 
think hes shown that Southern collected premiums when it shouldnt. But if he feels 
premiums were paid after he gave up possession of his car, he can raise this with Southern 
as a separate complaint.  
During his calls to Southern Mr R mentions a courtesy car shouldve been provided. My 
understanding is he retained possession of his car and it was driveable. But I have read the 
policy terms to understand when a courtesy car will be provided. The terms say:
Courtesy Cars: What is covered
 If You have Comprehensive cover and Your Car is repaired by one of Our Approved 
Repairers, You will be supplied with a small manual hatchback Car while Your Car is being 
repaired, subject to availability.And:
What is not covered
 Courtesy Cars are not provided if Your Car is stolen or determined as a total loss.
Mr R didnt allow Southern to inspect the car. No repair was arranged so the terms dont 
provide for a courtesy car. Its also the case that the car was determined a total loss by the 
third-party insurer. Assuming Southern considered it a total loss on inspection, then again, 
no courtesy car would be provided under the policy terms. So, I dont think Southern treated 
Mr R unfairly in not providing a courtesy car. 
Having considered all of this, I think Southern behaved reasonably when advising Mr R it 
required an inspection of his car before progressing his claim. But I think it couldve 
communicated its process more clearly at the outset, which caused Mr R confusion and 
frustration. Southern should pay him £100 compensation to acknowledge this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Southern should:
pay £100 compensation to Mr R for the confusion and frustration it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman