DRN-3534491
The complaint
A property management company and the propertys landlord, which Ill refer to collectively 
as K, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly declined a claim under its 
property investors protection plan for a loss of rent claim.
Within this decision, reference to K includes both the property management company and 
the propertys landlord unless specified. Any reference to K or AXA also includes respective 
agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
K made a subsidence claim through its AXA commercial insurance which was 
accepted. Ks previous tenant of the property in question left in January 2019 and it 
later sought to claim for a loss of rent. 
AXA declined to cover the related loss of rent claim. It said this was due to K not 
seeking to rent the property to mitigate its losses. AXA based this decision on Ks 
comments that it had no tenants from January 2019 onwards, which said:
With the structural problems and the fact there were two other units 
available, we felt it unlikely anyone would consider taking the unit for sale or 
let. That said, I dont think we withdrew it from the market we simply didnt 
show people around it!
AXA said the claim was reported in July 2019  seven months after it became 
vacant, and was not uninhabitable and only lightly damaged. So, Ks comments 
suggested there were no efforts to rent the property. And if K had raised these 
concerns or challenges, AXA couldve discussed arranging a lower rent.
K since provided a statement from its agent who initially made the above quoted 
comments. They said This was an assumption I made because my colleagues at [K] 
had stated in passing that they had no interest. I did not investigate this point in detail 
at the time as I saw no merit in doing so. They went on to say their statement was 
wrong and K never ceased to show or market the property. K also provided 
comments from the propertys landlord who said At no time would we have 
consented to our building not being marketed.
K provided comments from one of its senior staff who said 12 viewings had taken 
place on the property in question since January 2019 until works began. And had 
since been let after its repair.
AXA didnt change its mind and so K brought its complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator invited K to provide evidence of the 12 viewings that would support the 
property was still being viewed for rental purposes  with the possibility of redacting 
any personal information. K objected, and said it couldnt share anything.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
outlined Ks obligations under the policy, and said the evidence was reflective of K 
not taking appropriate steps to rent the property. She highlighted that K had provided 
a marketing brochure that was reflective of the property being up for sale  and not 
being marketing as a rental. And she discussed Ks conflicting testimonies, and 
having weighed these up felt it was most likely Ks initial comments that it had 
stopped showing people the property were an accurate reflection of what happened.
K disagreed. In summary, it said:
oIt was inconceivable that the propertys landlord would not expect K to look at 
selling and renting the property at reduced rent.
oAXA had relied on its agents opinion that the damage was relatively minor 
and should not prevent the property being re-let. This was unfair as the same 
company had said to continue monitoring which couldve led to further 
movement and potential hazard to safe occupation.
oK disagreed it couldve obtained a tenant with a reduced rent. And suggested 
an independent expert should review the history of the property and site and 
give their opinion on what couldve been achieved.
oIt is unfair to expect K to advise AXA that it faced difficulties in obtaining a 
tenant given monitoring was still ongoing.
oThe Investigators view on Ks testimony was subjective and should be based 
on the evidence  showing the property was not taken down from its website 
and the landlord had not made any instructions to stop marketing the 
property. And it said the landlord did not apply for a rates reduction due to the 
property being uninhabitable.
oK focused on the related subsidence claim and AXAs handling of this and its 
previous acceptance of faults in places.
oK said AXAs expectations on practical steps to minimise the claim are unfair, 
and that the matter should be passed to a suitably qualified practitioner. 
Our Investigator looked again and didnt change her mind. Reiterating that she was 
satisfied the evidence supported K had failed to mitigate its loss and AXA had 
declined the claim fairly. She highlighted this Service is unable to consider matters 
about the subsidence claim itself, and that it was for K to provide evidence should it 
feel this was needed.
K provided further submissions, and as agreement couldnt be met, the complaint 
has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, we can only look into complaints from a small business for acts or omissions 
which occur on or after 1 April 2019. The complaint Ive been asked to consider 
concerns the loss of rent claim. So, Ive not considered the way the subsidence claim 
was handled within this decision.
Its not in dispute that an insured peril has taken place. The dispute that remains is 
whether K has met its obligations as a policyholder. Ks policy requires it to take 
all practicable steps to recover property lost and otherwise minimise the claim.
In this case, AXA has said this obligation means K shouldve been at least attempting to rent the property. And if this was not possible and it could not comply with this, that 
it should have been informed. On its face, I think this is a reasonable expectation in 
the circumstances for AXA to hold.
AXA has relied on Ks initial comments, quoted above, which made reference to it 
being unlikely anyone would want to consider letting the property, and not showing 
people around it. I think these comments heavily suggest K had stopped showing 
people the property. And while Ive taken into account the agents follow up 
comments and explanation, Ive placed less weight on this given the agent wouldve 
been acutely aware at that point of the significance of their previous comments. 
Ive also considered the comments from the landlord of the property. These suggest 
the landlord never gave authority to withdraw the property from the market. Having 
looked at everything provided, Ive seen nothing to support that the landlord ever did 
request the property was withdrawn from the market. So, I see no reason to doubt 
their belief. But I think theres a distinction here between what the landlord wouldve 
expected of their property management company, and the direct comments from its 
staff member which suggest it did stop showing tenants the property  even if it did 
so without the landlords input. 
Ive gone on to consider the other evidence available. K has asked this Service to 
place weight on a brochure of the property. It says this shows the property was not 
taken down. Ive read this carefully and the front page of it specifies the property is 
for sale. So, Im not persuaded this indicates the property was still available to rent, 
and as the brochure says, it appears it was simply for sale.
K has mentioned it had 12 viewings since the property became vacant. This goes 
against Ks earlier comments that no one would view the property. And it strikes me if 
K was able to evidence this, it could show that its staff did not stop showing the 
property to prospective tenants. 
However, K has only provided a list of 12 dates within an email to support this. This 
email doesnt include details of the property in question, or times of the viewings, or 
anything further from the time. When our Investigator suggested K could redact any 
personal information to enable it to provide something further, it declined. This is Ks 
choice to do so, but Im not satisfied the limited evidence it has provided is sufficient 
to show the property in question had 12 viewings as it says.
K has indicated the property was in such a poor condition that it wouldve been 
impossible to find a tenant. Having reviewed the photos of the property, I agree there 
are cracks present, but by no means does it appear uninhabitable to me. Nor have I 
been given any expert evidence to support this is the case.
K has said the ongoing monitoring could be indicative of potentially hazardous 
movement. These comments are speculative and not based on any expert opinion. 
Many people live safely in properties that undergo monitoring for subsidence. And 
again, having referred to the available photos which suggest to me the cracking was 
not significant, Im not persuaded by Ks comments. 
Furthermore, if K had the above concerns, I think itd have been reasonable to raise 
this with AXA at the time. And this wouldve allowed AXA the opportunity to intervene 
and attempt to minimise the loss in whichever way it saw fit. Even if this didnt lead to 
a tenant being found, it wouldve demonstrated that K had taken all steps to minimise 
the claim as it was required to in line with the policy.
K has suggested this Service appoints an expert to determine if the property couldve 
been rented at a reduced rent. It has also suggested a separate expert is appointed 
to interpret AXAs interpretation of policy terms. I dont think either of these steps is 
necessary for me to be able to reach a decision on this complaint, and I wouldve expected K to produce any evidence it wants this Service to consider. So, Im not 
going to direct AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman