DRN-3748490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly declined part of an 
insurance claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs W or AXA includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs W raised a claim under their buildings policy following damage to the 
inside of their homes skirting and carpets.
AXA appointed an agent (Company B) to attend to review the internal damage. It 
said the cause was rising damp which wasnt covered by the policy. But they did note 
a potential problem with drains.
So, AXA sent a drain specialist (Company D) to attend. They confirmed drain 
damage and completed repairs. AXA says the drains issue and internal damage 
were entirely unconnected.
Mr and Mrs W say that Company Ds agents (providing names of two staff members) 
had told them the internal damage their property suffered was as a direct result of the 
drain damage. So, they say AXA should cover it.
AXA says it spoke to Company D who refuted any such comments from its staff, and 
confirmed the engineers names didnt match those put forward by Mr and Mrs W. 
And referencing the internal damage claim, it said this was over five metres away 
from the drains so clearly wasnt connected. But it did award £30 compensation for 
its claims handling.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, and said it was unfair for AXA to charge a £500 excess for 
the drain repairs. So, the matter came to this Service.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint, saying AXAs communication couldve been 
clearer and directed it to £200 compensation. He said AXA had incorrectly charged 
an escape of water excess (£500) for an accidental damage to drains claim (£100). 
So, he said AXA should refund the £400 difference plus 8% simple interest. He also 
said the available evidence suggested the two claims werent related.
AXA agreed with the view and accepted its direction. But Mr and Mrs W didnt, saying 
they felt the compensation award wasnt sufficient.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in line with the Investigators previous 
recommendations. Ill explain why.
In response to our Investigators view, Mr and Mrs W appear to have accepted our 
Investigators position with the exception of his recommendation on compensation. 
But for the avoidance of doubt Ill touch on the claim itself. 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim for drains damage was covered by AXA. Theres no dispute of 
any outstanding works in relation to this. 
AXA also declined the damage for internal damage as it said the cause was due to 
rising damp. Theres no dispute such a term exists in the policy that excludes loss or 
damage caused by wear and tear or gradual causes. 
AXA has provided expert commentary to support the damage has occurred 
gradually. And Mr and Mrs W havent provided any evidence or expert opinion to 
conflict with this  with the exception of alleged commentary from Company D they 
say linked the drain issue with the internal damage.
Company D disputes this version of events and has said no engineers by the names 
quoted by Mr and Mrs W attended their property. This suggests to me Mr and Mrs W 
were mistaken when attributing these comments to Company Ds agents. And given 
the wider circumstances of having various people visit their home while looking to sell 
it, Im not persuaded Company D made these comments. 
But even if I agreed that Company Ds agents did say the drain damage and internal 
damage was linked  which I dont  I would expect there to be evidence to support 
this. And as AXA has said, there is a five-metre distance between the areas of 
damage. So, Im satisfied AXA has declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
Our Investigator said AXA had charged the wrong type of excess for the claim. Im 
pleased to see AXA has acknowledged this and agreed to refund £400 paid plus 8% 
interest in line with this.
AXA has also agreed its handling couldve been better than it has been. And has now 
agreed to £200 compensation in total. Ive taken into account everything thats 
happened, and Im also satisfied AXA couldve been clearer with Mr and Mrs W as to 
what was happening. And I think this lack of clarity has confused matters for them. In 
the circumstances, Im persuaded £200 compensation is a fair sum.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay Mr and Mrs W the following:
£200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
£400 to account for the higher excess charged.
8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs W paid this excess until the date of 
settlement. 
If AXA considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest, it should 
tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman