DRN-3314826
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 1Plus1 
hasnt responded to the investigators view and so I dont know what its disagreement with 
the investigators assessment may be.
It appears Mr A had more than one loan with 1Plus1 but hes only complaining about the 
most recent one in August 2014 as he hasnt raised any objection to the investigators view 
addressing only the last loan. And so Ive based my decision solely on that loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 1Plus1 will be familiar with the factors we consider when looking at complaints like 
this.
Having all the relevant factors into account and thought about what they mean for this case, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
1plus1s checks didnt go far enough, I think there were sufficient concerns raised 
about Mr As ability to sustainably repay the loan. From the application call, its clear 
that this wasnt Mr As first loan, it was a refinance where this loan repaid the 
previous loan. Mr A was due to be indebted to 1Plus1 for a longer period compared 
to the first loan, so it needed to have a thorough understanding of Mr As 
circumstances before lending.
Even without 1Plus1 taking its checks further, it should reasonably have known Mr A 
would suffer adversely from further lending. Mr A had about eight defaults on his 
credit file, the most recent less than 12 months before this loan, he said the defaults 
should have been settled but 1 Plus1 could see there were outstanding balances on 
those defaulted accounts, 1Plus1 assigned small repayments which meant Mr A 
would be in debt for a long period of time.
Taking into account his previous problems with credit, the refinancing of a previous 
loan and the length of time Mr A was likely to be indebted, 1Plus shouldnt have lent 
to him and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on the loan taken out in July 2014;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about this loan from Mr As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman