DRN-1338219
 
The complaint
Mrs W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
The PPI, which started in 1996, helped protect Mrs Ws mortgage payments if she couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont have all the information from the time of the sale in 
this case. For example, we dont have a copy of any mortgage or PPI application 
forms Mrs W might have signed. None of this is surprising given the sale took place so long 
ago. That said, Ive still reached a conclusion taking into account the available evidence, and 
knowledge and experience of these types of sales.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant say for sure what Mrs W was told 
or that it was made clear the PPI was optional. Equally, Ive seen no evidence to support 
what shes said about HSBC not making her aware it had added PPI or making it clear the 
PPI was optional. Taking everything into account, I think its just as likely Mrs W was told 
about the PPI, that it was optional and that she agreed for it to be added. I can understand if 
she doesnt recall any of that now, so many years later.
So, I dont have enough evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Looking at other aspects of the sale, its possible HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs W. If 
so, HSBC needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for her. I cant be sure it took 
those steps, although I think the PPI was probably right for her in any case. 
For example, I think Mrs W would have been eligible for the cover. While the PPI included 
restrictions on the cover, such as for claims for pre-existing medical conditions, I cant see 
that Mrs W would have been significantly affected by them. 
Mrs W says shed have received enhanced sick pay for a time and redundancy pay. She 
also says she had no other means of meeting her repayments if she was off work. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, would have paid out on top of her pay, and for up to 12 months 
per claim. This would have allowed her to use her enhanced pay to help cover her other 
daily costs of living at what might otherwise have been a difficult time.
Given Mrs W had arranged a mortgage  an important, long-term, financial commitment that 
was secured against her home  I think the cover provided her with worthwhile extra 
security. 
It was also for HSBC to give Mrs W enough information about the PPI so she could make an 
informed choice about whether it was right for her. I dont know exactly what information 
Mrs W got during the sale  according to her she got almost nothing. But, for the same 
reasons I think the PPI was right for her and was affordable, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off buying it.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Ws lost out because of how HSBC sold 
her the PPI. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs W paid on her PPI  and whether HSBC treated 
her unfairly. 
HSBCs told us that the commission for Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what she paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how HSBCs been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ws commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think HSBC treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs W back any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman