DRN-3686142
The complaint
Ms K complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the way they handled her car 
insurance claim.
What happened
In March 2021, Ms Ks catalytic converter was stolen. So, she made a claim on her car 
insurance policy provided by EIL. They arranged for the stolen part to be replaced but due to 
the age of the car, a non-manufacturer part was used. The repair was completed, and Ms K 
was able to continue using her car for around a year, until it broke down again.
At this point, EIL decided they were unable to repair to Ms Ks car and so, they wrote the car 
off, paying Ms K a pre-accident value (PAV) payment whilst also reimbursing service 
charges shed incurred. But Ms K was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint. 
Ms K was unhappy that the repair had been completed using a non-manufacturer part. Ms K 
thought the repairs shouldve ensured the car was able to be used for longer than a further 
year. She explained that, if shed known a manufacturer sourced part couldnt be used, she 
wouldnt have proceeded with the repairs and made a claim on her policy. And Ms K 
explained her belief that, in this situation, she wouldnt have a claim reported to her name 
that needed to be declared when taking out new insurance. Ms K was also unhappy with the 
PAV she received and her inability to replace her car with what she felt was a reasonable 
replacement. So, Ms K wanted to be compensated for all of the above.
EIL responded and upheld the complaint in part. They thought they acted fairly when 
repairing Ms Ks car using a non-manufacturer part, due to the age of Ms Ks car and the fact 
a part made by the manufacturer could no longer be sourced. And they thought they acted 
fairly by then processing a fair and reasonable PAV payment when the car broke down again 
a year later. As Ms K had utilised her policy for both the repair and then the PAV, they 
thought they were fair to report the claim. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more regarding this.
But they offered Ms K a £200 gesture of goodwill to recognise that Ms K wasnt provided a 
courtesy car when the repairs were initially completed. Ms K accepted this gesture of good 
will but thought she should be compensated an additional amount for the complaint issues 
EIL didnt uphold. So, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought EILs decision to 
replace the part with a non-manufacturer approved replacement was reasonable, 
considering the age of Ms Ks car. And they didnt think EIL were responsible for the 
breakdown a year later. They thought EIL acted more than fairly by then paying a PAV 
payment, which they were satisfied fell within trade guide valuations. And they thought EIL 
acted reasonably when reporting the claim Ms K made, as they had an obligation to do so. 
So, our investigator didnt think EIL needed to do anything more.
Ms K didnt agree. She reiterated her opinion that, had EIL made her aware a manufacturer-
approved part couldnt be sourced then she wouldnt have agreed to the repairs. So, she 
maintained her belief that the claim being reported against her name for five years was 
unreasonable and had led to increased premiums and so, a financial loss. As Ms K didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms K. I appreciate she 
wouldnt have expected her catalytic converter to have been stolen. And I understand she 
had car insurance to limit the impact a situation like this had on her, both emotionally and 
financially. So, I can understand why Ms K would be unhappy that the repairs EIL completed 
only allowed her to use her car for one more year, before it broke down again. I can also 
understand why Ms K feels its unfair that the claim she made impacts her premiums for the 
next five years, as shes stated she wouldnt have agreed to the repairs had she been made 
aware it was completed with a non-manufacturer approved part.
But for me to say EIL should compensate Ms K, Id need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they made an error when completing the repair 
using a non-manufacturer approved part and that this was the sole cause of the car to break 
down again. And Id need to be satisfied that I think its most likely Ms K wouldnt have chose 
to have the repairs completed, if shed be told the part would be non-manufacturer approved. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
EIL have explained a manufacturer approved replacement part to fix Ms Ks car couldnt be 
obtained, due to its age at the time. I can see Ms Ks car was 13 years old by this point, so I 
dont think this is unlikely, or unreasonable. So, I dont think EIL did anything wrong when 
deciding to complete the repair using a non-manufacturer approved part on this occasion.
Ms K says had she been made aware of this, she wouldnt have continued with the repair 
and so, a claim wouldnt have been recorded. I cant be sure exactly what Ms K wouldve 
done in this situation, as this never occurred. But even if Ms K hadnt agreed for her car to 
be repaired, EIL would still have needed to report the fact Ms K had reported a theft of her 
catalytic converter. So, a claim, albeit for a lesser amount, would still have been recorded.
And when considering what I think is most likely to have happened, as EIL were unable to 
source a manufacturer approved replacement part, I dont think Ms K wouldve been able to 
either. So, I think its unlikely Ms K wouldve chose to take on the substantial costs of 
completing a repair she couldve have completed under her insurance policy. Because of the 
above, I dont think I can say EIL have done anything wrong here.
I recognise Ms Ks car broke down again a year later. And I appreciate Ms K feels this was 
down to the quality of the repair EIL completed. But Ive seen no evidence to prove this is the 
case. The fact is Ms Ks car was of a significant age and so, its reasonable to expect it was 
more likely to break down than a car built more recently. While I appreciate Ms K says an 
engine light appeared immediately after the repair, if this was the cause of the breakdown I 
wouldnt have expected Ms K to have been able to drive the car for a year. So, I dont think its likely this light was linked to the eventual breakdown.
But I am pleased to see that when EIL were made aware of the breakdown, they agreed to 
write off the car and provide Ms K with a PAV payment. Considering the breakdown 
occurred a year after the repair, I dont think this is something EIL had to do but I think it 
reflects them acting fairly considering the individual circumstances of the issue.
And I can see the PAV payment Ms K received falls in line with the trade guide valuations for 
the car, in line with industry guidelines. So, I think the payment Ms K received was fair. While 
I recognise Ms K doesnt think this PAV allowed her to purchase a car similar to the standard 
and specifications of her previous car when she purchased it, that isnt the requirement of a 
PAV or the insurance policy she held. When a PAV payment is made, it is intended to be 
reflective of the value of the car at the time it was written off, and crucially not based on the 
amount Ms K would need to purchase a new car at a retail price, which is often higher than 
trade valuations.
So, I dont think EIL acted unfairly. And I think they were fair to report the way the claim was 
processed and concluded, as they have an obligation to do so. While I recognise Ms K must 
declare the claim for future insurance policy quotations, I dont think EIL are responsible, or 
at fault, for this and the potential premium increases Ms K may face. So, for all of the 
reasons explained above, I dont think EIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman