DRN-2920386
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that a fraudster has been able to access her credit file and she is 
concerned that Clear Score didnt do enough to safe guard her personal data.
What happened
On 10 June 2020, Miss M received a call from a credit card company asking her if she
applied for a credit card. She was advised to check her credit file and to register with CIFAS.
Miss M reviewed her credit file and noticed two searches on her file by Clear Score. She
contacted Clear Score and found out a third party had registered with Clear Score
pretending to be her. Clear Score then went to a third-party credit reference agency who 
generated security questions. Because the fraudster passed these questions, Clear Score 
gave the third-party access to Miss Ms credit file.
The searches allowed the fraudster to access her personal information and financial
details which led to a number of fraudulent applications for credit in her name. She
complained to Clear Score and submitted a DSAR and she was provided with information
with a large amount of data redacted and a final response letter.
Miss M was unhappy with Clear Scores response as she says it allowed a fraudster to 
access her information whilst providing Clear Score with the wrong phone number and email 
address. She also says the fraudster also answered Clear Scores question about her bank 
incorrectly. She feels that if Clear Score had carried out basic checks, it wouldve realised a 
fraudster was trying to access her personal information.
Miss M also feels that Clear Score sold her data to other third parties and hasnt been open 
about this.
Miss M says she had to commit a large amount of time to correct the problems caused by 
the identity fraud and the impact has been significant. She also has no idea about how
much of her information has been shared with the fraudster.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint as he didnt think Clear Score had done 
anything wrong. During his investigation he established that following receipt of an 
application for information from Clear Score, it was the third-party credit reference agency 
that generated the security questions which were specific to Miss Ms credit file. The third-
party credit reference agency told Clear Score what the questions were and whether they 
were answered correctly  but it didnt tell Clear Score the answers. In this instance all six 
questions were answered correctly.
Miss M did not agree. She felt that Clear Score and the third-party credit refence agency 
were blaming each other. She also felt that the security questions cant have been 
reasonable  otherwise the third-party credit refence agency would have shared them with 
her. She also felt that Clear Score did not verify her in the same ways as other companies 
did.
As the case could not be resolve informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made by Miss M, but I wont be addressing every 
single point thats been raised. It doesnt follow that the points havent been considered, 
simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an outcome I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of this complaint.
Miss M wanted to know why Clear Score and the third-party credit reference agency were 
blaming each other. This complaint is against Clear Score so I will only be determining 
whether Clear Score did anything wrong. 
Unfortunately, fraud does happen, and whilst banks and other organisations do try their best 
to protect consumers, they wont always be able to prevent it. Unfortunately, we dont know 
how a fraudster was able to get the information in order to pass the security systems here 
but the fact that they did, doesnt automatically mean Clear Score did anything wrong.
We dont regulate Clear Score, so I cant say whether its security systems are sufficient. I 
can only look at whether it made an error as part of its processes.
It was the third-party credit reference agency, rather than Clear Score, that generated the 
security questions which were specific to Miss Ms credit file following receipt of an 
application for information from Clear Score. As I understand it, the third-party credit 
reference agency told Clear Score what the questions were and whether they were 
answered correctly  but it didnt tell Clear Score the answers. 
For reasons already explained, those questions cant be shared, as it is commercially 
sensitive information. Also, it is not Clear Scores information to share, but the third-party 
credit refence agencys information. The evidence does show that all six questions were 
answered correctly as part of the verification process. And as these questions were 
answered correctly, the third-party credit refence agency released the credit file data to Clear 
Score, and Clear Score in turn released this information to the fraudster. This does suggest 
to me that the fraudster already had access to Miss Ms information and knew answers to 
these security questions prior to registering with Clear Score.
I appreciate Miss M has said that Clear Score did not verify her as other companies did, and 
that the fraudster may have failed security checks with other organisations. On this basis, 
Miss M doesnt believe the security questions are reasonable as she feels they should be 
sufficiently complex to weed out fraudsters. In particular, she has explained that the phone 
number given by the fraudster wasnt genuine and doesnt even ring. I cant comment on 
other organisations security checks. Clear Score has confirmed that it doesn't ask for a 
phone number during its registration process and it doesn't have any information relating to 
Miss Ms phone number on its system. I appreciate Miss M believes Clear Score should ask 
for these basic questions as part of its security process, but as explained above it is not for 
me to determine whether its systems are sufficient, just whether it did anything wrong as part 
of its processes.
I do understand that Miss M has found this particularly distressing and can understand why 
she would be anxious knowing that personal information might have been made available to 
a fraudster. Miss M may be able to get more advice about any potential data breach, and 
how to protect herself going forward from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Clear Score has also confirmed it is happy to provide information to the police to cooperate with 
any investigation that they may be conducting. 
None of what Ive said here is meant to underestimate the impact that Miss M says this had 
on her. But I hope shell understand that, as an impartial service, we have to look at both 
sides of every dispute that is referred to us. And that means that we have to consider the 
evidence thats provided and reach our own independent view of whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of a complaint.
I understand that identity fraud can be distressing. However, the evidence suggests that
Clear Score followed its security process when releasing Miss Ms credit file to the fraudster.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman