DRN-1594657
The complaint
Mr Ds unhappy with the actions of U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, 
when attending his car under his roadside assistance insurance policy.
At times another party has been communicating on behalf of Mr D, but for simplicity, Ive just 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
On Sunday 16 June 2019 Mr D was going to visit a friend around 250 miles from his home 
when unfortunately, his car broke down. UKI attended the car and couldnt get it to start. 
Mr Ds plans meant he couldnt return home that day with his car. So, he was taken to his 
friends house, with his car, and was told if he called up UKI would sort out the issues for him 
the following day.
Mr D says he then contacted UKI on the Thursday of that week and asked them to recover 
his car to his home. UKI refused, saying theyd done all they needed to under the policy 
terms. Mr D says because of this hes incurred a lot of extra costs including having to buy a 
new car, parking fines, train fares amongst them.  And he said he wasnt told his car could 
be taken home, while he could be taken to the address he needed to get to. He says if he 
had been told this, then hed have accepted it. So, he complained to UKI about all of these 
issues.
UKI initially replied and said theyd met the policy terms by taking Mr D to an address around 
12 miles away from where he broke down. Because of this, they wouldnt be doing anything 
further.
Mr D got back in touch with UKI, and set out why he didnt agree with this, along with the 
expenses he said hed incurred  and complained about how he was spoken to on the 
phone. UKI refunded some of the train fares Mr D had incurred and paid him £250 
compensation. This was for the upset and inconvenience caused by not providing further 
help on 20 June 2019 when Mr D had called.
Mr D didnt accept this in resolution of his complaint and asked us to look into things. One of 
our investigators did so and felt UKI had acted fairly in how theyd dealt with Mr D so she 
didnt think they needed to do anymore.
Mr D replied and said he wasnt told his car could be taken back to him home without him  
and had he known this then he would have chosen that option. He added the technician had 
said because it was a Sunday the garages were closed, but if Mr D called up on Monday, 
theyd sort things out for him. He feels he wasnt given the correct information, so for those 
reasons doesnt accept the outcome. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at this point if the policy terms dont suggest UKI should have 
done more than they did then its unlikely Ill be upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has referred to two specific sections of the policy, so Ive looked at each in turn.
The first is the Breakdown Cover in the UK section. Theres a term in this section that says 
If the repairers closed and you ask us to take your vehicle home, we can pick it up the next 
day (or when mutually acceptable if the next day is not possible) and take it to the repairer.
So, I can see why Mr D would point to this term, because he understands this to say he 
could have asked for his car to be taken home and him on to his friends house. But, the 
term immediately above this says if they cant get the car going, theyll take Mr D and his car 
to one of their repairers no matter how far away that is. Or, if Mr D prefers, they can take 
him and his car somewhere else as long as its ten miles or less from where the breakdown 
happened.
Altogether then, I read this term as saying if Mr D has a breakdown and UKI couldnt get him 
going  theyd take him, and his car, to a destination of his choice if they cant take him to a 
repairer. So, I dont think under this term Mr D had the option of his car being taken home, 
and him being taken to his friends house. Mr D has said he had a flight out of the local area 
where his friends house was the following day. So, given the circumstances Mr D has 
described, its clear he had to get to his friends house. Because of this, even if I accept Mr D 
wasnt given all the options, I still think hed have ended up at his friends house with his car.
 
The second term Mr D has referred to is the term that says, we may choose to arrange 
recovery of the vehicle separately to you and your passengers  we will tell you if we are 
going to do this and let you know when your car can be delivered.
I think this term is saying if UKI think its problematic in recovering both Mr D, and his car at 
the same time, then theyll take Mr D where he wants and deliver his car to him afterwards. 
So, I dont think this means UKI would have taken him to his friends house, and his car back 
to his home around 250 miles away either.
Breakdown cover is generally designed to get people going after a breakdown. And, in 
Mr Ds policy hes got the options of a local or a national recovery. A local recovery is being 
taken to any destination within ten miles  and a national recovery is anything over ten miles. 
So, UKI fulfilled the terms of the policy by taking Mr D and his car to an address over ten 
miles away when he broke down.
UKI have said they perhaps could have done more when Mr D called on the Thursday after 
the breakdown  and paid Mr D a train fare of £82.50 and £250 compensation.
Under the circumstances, I think thats fair, so I wont be telling UKI to pay any further 
compensation or costs Mr D has claimed for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman