DRN-3174020
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank handled 
his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s. 75).
What happened
Mr J acquired a car in 2014 which he partially paid for with his Tesco Bank credit card. When 
he bought the car, he was told it came with a lifetime warranty and he says he wouldnt have 
bought the car without this. However, he subsequently discovered the warranty hadnt been 
activated meaning there had been a breach of contract.
Mr J said the cost of the car would have been lower had it been bought elsewhere without 
the warranty and that service costs at an independent garage would also have been cheaper 
than needing to use the main dealer to ensure the validity of the warranty. Mr J said he had 
spent a lot of time dealing with this issue and compensation for this needed to be included in 
any resolution.
Mr J said that the breach of contract had been accepted by Tesco Bank, but it hadnt offered 
a genuine ongoing warranty comparable to the one he had been told he would receive. He 
said that as he wouldnt have purchased the car without the warranty it was fair that he now 
received a refund of the full purchase price.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter dated 26 January 2021. It agreed that a breach of 
contract had occurred as the lifetime warranty hadnt been activated. It explained that it was 
liable for costs caused due to the breach. It offered to refund Mr J the cost of any repairs 
undertaken that would have been covered by the warranty. It didnt accept that it should 
refund Mr J the full cost of the car given he had use of it from 2014. It also didnt agree that it 
should refund the cost of services undertaken as it said these were required for the warranty 
to be valid and had they not taken place the warranty would be invalid and so there wouldnt 
be a claim under the breach of contract.
Tesco Bank noted Mr Js complaint about the service provided while dealing with his claim. It 
said that it received Mr Js documentation on 12 September 2020 and the case was 
allocated in October 2020. A decision was then emailed on 4 January 2021. It didnt think 
there had been any errors in its dealing with Mr Js claim or that it had caused any 
unnecessary delay.
Mr J didnt agree with Tesco Banks response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the offer made by Tesco Bank was reasonable. She said that Tesco 
Bank was only required to pay for repairs that would have been covered by the warranty and 
that Mr J would have been expected to take the car to the dealer for the repairs under the 
warranty. Going forward she said that Tesco Bank had agreed to cover costs that would 
have been covered by the warranty and this was reasonable. She didnt think getting an 
assessment of the repairs and sending this to Tesco Bank for consideration was a further 
burden. She said that Tesco Bank had tried to contact the original supplier of the car but 
hadnt received a response. She thought it had then offered a reasonable resolution for 
Mr Js s.75 claim.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that Tesco Banks resolution wasnt to 
offer a genuine 100,000 mile / lifetime warranty as would be a fair and reasonable resolution. 
He said without this he should be refunded the full value of the car along with appropriate 
compensation.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr J was told the car he was buying would have a lifetime / 100,000 mile warranty 
but this wasnt activated. 
Tesco Bank upheld Mr Js s.75 claim and offered to remedy the breach of contract.
Considering what would have happened had the warranty been activated as 
expected, Mr J would have been required to have regular services at the relevant 
dealer in order to retain the validity of the warranty. Therefore, if Tesco Bank was to 
provide a remedy for the warranty not being in place, I didnt find it was also required 
to refund any additional costs associated with using the dealer for services rather 
than an independent garage.
Tesco Banks offer to refund the cost of any repairs that Mr J has paid for that would 
have been covered by the warranty was reasonable and I thought that this refund 
should also cover the cost of any investigations that would also have been covered 
either as part of the repairs or directly under the warranty. Tesco Bank wasnt 
required to cover the costs of repairs that wouldnt have been covered by the 
warranty.
Going forward, Mr J should be put back in the position he would have been had the 
warranty still been in place. I thought the fair approach would be for Tesco Bank to 
cover the cost of an equivalent warranty being put in place for Mr Js car going 
forward. 
I didnt think that Tesco Bank was required to refund Mr J the cost of the car given 
Mr J had been able to use the car for several years.
I didnt think that Tesco Bank had caused any unnecessary delay when dealing with 
Mr Js claim.
Tesco Bank didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr J provided further comments. He 
reiterated that the breach of contract happened at the point of acquisition and so he believed 
a refund of the original cost should be a remedy. He provided information about the warranty 
terms and said the repairs he had undertaken (for which he provided receipts) were covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under s. 75 a consumer has, in certain circumstances, a claim against the credit provider if 
there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. In this case Mr J partially paid for a car using his Tesco Bank credit card. The car was provided by 
a supplier and so I find that the required debtor- supplier-creditor relationship was in place
and so, I think Tesco Bank was right to investigate this claim.
As I set out in my provisional decision the evidence provided supports Mr Js claim that the 
car should have been provided with the lifetime warranty and as this hadnt happened, there 
was a breach of contract.
I note Mr Js comment about the breach happening at acquisition. My role is to take the 
relevant rules and regulations into account and to consider in each case what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome based on the specific circumstances. In this case Mr J had use of the 
car for several years before the issue of the warranty was identified. Therefore, I do not find 
it would be fair for him to now receive a full refund. Instead, I think action should be taken to 
put him back in the position he would have been had the warranty been put in place. 
Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision I think the fair resolution is for Tesco Bank 
to put in place and equivalent warranty to that which should have been applied at 
acquisition. This puts Mr J back in the position he would have been going forward.
Tesco Bank should also refund any costs that Mr J has paid that would have been covered 
by the warranty. I note Mr Js comments that the glow plugs fall under the fuel system which 
is covered by the warranty. However, I also note the comments by Tesco Bank that these 
items arent covered. This will need to be confirmed by the warranty provider as to whether 
the costs Mr J has provided evidence would normally be covered. Any costs Mr J has 
incurred that would otherwise have been covered by the warranty should be refunded along 
with 8% simple interest from the date of Mr Js payments to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should:
refund Mr J any repair and associated investigation costs that he has paid that would 
have been covered by the warranty (invoices have been provided but confirmation of 
coverage is required) along with 8% simple interest from the date of Mr Js payments 
to the date of settlement; and
arrange for an equivalent warranty to be put in place at no cost to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank should take the actions set out above n resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman