DRN-3356718
The complaint
Mr S has complained (on behalf of the joint policyholder, Miss B and himself) about the 
valuation esure Insurance Limited (esure) has made of items which were taken from their 
home in a burglary. 
What happened
In spring 2021, Mr Ss and Miss Bs home was burgled.  When Mr S returned to the property, 
he found the back door had been broken and a number of the couples possessions had 
been taken.  He reported the burglary to the police that night.  When the police had 
completed gathering evidence, Mr S contacted esure to lodge a claim for the damage 
caused on entry, and the items stolen.
Esure asked Mr S to complete a list of losses including when and where the stolen items 
were bought, as well as any evidence (such as photos or receipts) of ownership.  Mr S 
completed this to the best of his ability and sent it to esure.  He explained that many of the 
stolen items had been gifts.  And that he and Miss B had moved home a couple of times in 
the previous three years so hadnt kept paperwork which might have proved when they 
bought certain items or how much theyd cost.
Esure instructed specialist companies to deal with the valuation and replacement of the 
electrical items, furniture and jewellery and watches.  And they dealt directly with Mr S on the 
miscellaneous items.
During the following month, Mr S received valuations for the stolen items.  He wasnt happy 
as he thought a number of items had been undervalued and he was being asked to accept 
vouchers to buy replacements, rather than cash.  And he felt he was being unfairly asked to 
substantiate losses when it wasnt possible.  So he complained to esure about these issues 
 and about delays and poor customer service during the claim.
Esure investigated and agreed there were elements of Mr Ss claim that could have been 
handled better.  They offered him £100 compensation for this.
In respect of the settlement theyd offered, esure explained that the sums offered for a gold 
ring and chain were based on what it would cost them to replace the items  not what was 
originally paid for them.  And theyd validated the other jewellery and several watches 
correctly and offered the right settlement.  They said it was reasonable for them to offer 
vouchers for replacement or, if Mr S didnt want vouchers, for them to offer the lesser cash 
sum the vouchers would cost them.
With regard to the miscellaneous items, esure said the loss of these hadnt been 
substantiated, so it was reasonable to offer a global settlement figure, as they had done.  But 
they increased their offer from £250 to £500 for the cash Mr S had claimed for, although they 
said there was no way to quantify the loss, as the cash consisted of change collected in a jar 
and coins which he said were rare designs. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with esures response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded esure didnt need to do anything more than theyd 
offered to resolve it.  He explained its for a policyholder to prove the losses theyre claiming 
for.  Mr Ss and Miss Bs policy explained esure may ask them to provide documents or 
information to do this.  And, if they couldnt do this, theres no obligation on esure to pay the 
claim.
He noted there was disagreement about whether some of the losses had been 
substantiated, because esure didnt think what Mr S could provide was sufficient.  
Nevertheless, esure had made an offer in respect of each of the items of jewellery and had 
made an overall offer for the miscellaneous items and cash  which he felt was fair.
And the investigator felt it was fair that esure had offered to have replacements for the gold 
ring and chain made and offered vouchers for some of the other jewellery.  He explained the 
policy said esure would replace the stolen items  so it was fair that any cash sum was 
equivalent to the cost to them of doing that.  And insurers can negotiate vouchers of a 
greater face value than they pay for them  so it was reasonable for them to offer Mr S what 
the vouchers had cost them.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss and Miss Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand its very upsetting to have your home broken into.  And I can see the personal 
circumstances Mr S has told us about would have made that upset even worse.  But that 
doesnt mean that esure should consider settling the claim any differently from how they may 
otherwise.
As our investigator explained, its for the policyholder making the claim to prove what items 
have been lost or damaged.  If they cant do that, the insurer doesnt have to consider their 
claim at all.  I know the efforts Mr S made to substantiate the losses.  But its up to esure to 
decide whether hes done that.  Its not reasonable for me to say esure should accept 
evidence they dont consider adequate. 
Notwithstanding their concerns about substantiation, I can see esure have considered Mr Ss 
and Miss Bs claim and have made offers covering all the items that were lost.  The relevant 
section of the policy says:
If Your Contents, Personal Possessions or Specified Items are lost or damaged in any of 
the circumstances explained in the policy booklet, We can choose to:
 pay the cost of repairs
 arrange for repairs; or
 give You an equivalent replacement.
If it is not possible to repair and an equivalent replacement is not available, We will pay You 
cash based on the full replacement cost.However, if it is possible to make a repair and/or if an equivalent replacement is available but 
You do not agree with these settlement options, We will pay You cash based on the 
applicable equivalent repair or replacement cost to Us.
Its clear from this that esure has several options for indemnifying policyholders in the event 
of a claim.  And its esure that will choose which option to take.
The claim for jewellery
Esure offered to have a replacement gold ring and chain could be made.  Mr S is reluctant to 
accept that and has said the items were of sentimental value and therefore cannot be easily 
replaced.  
I understand Mr Ss position.  Items of sentimental value are very difficult  if not impossible 
 to replace.  But that doesnt mean theyre treated any differently under the policy from 
other items.  
The policy terms are clear that esure can indemnify Mr S by providing a replacement item  
or, if he prefers to take a cash sum, that amount will be equivalent to the cost to esure of the 
replacement.  So Im satisfied esure have offered to settle the claim for these items in line 
with the policy terms.  They dont need to do any more.
Similarly, in relation to the other jewellery items, Ive seen that esure checked equivalent 
items were available from a retailer who accepts the vouchers  so Im satisfied it was 
reasonable to settle the claim in this way.  And insurers can negotiate vouchers for a higher 
value than they pay for them.  So, if Mr S wanted this part of the claim settled by a cash 
payment, its fair for esure to pay him what the vouchers cost, rather than their face value.
Ive seen that esure have provided a cash sum to allow Mr S to buy a replacement item 
where one can be found.  And theyve said (subject to evidence Mr S has had to pay them) 
they will cover import charges of items which are only available abroad.  I think thats 
reasonable to settle this part of the claim. 
The claim for miscellaneous items
Ive looked at the evidence provided by Mr S in relation to these items.  There are no 
receipts for the items.  There are photographs of some of them.  And the description of a 
number of items is very general.  So, while I understand Mr S doesnt agree with the 
assessment, I think it was reasonable for esure to conclude the items in this category 
werent substantiated.  
That means esure werent obliged to settle this part of the claim.  But rather than declining it, 
esure offered a global sum of £500 for the items taken and/or damaged. 
I can see Mr S isnt happy with this sum and says the value is closer to £1,500.  But, without 
evidence that shows me these items were clearly worth much more, I dont think the amount 
offered by esure is unreasonable.  
The claim for money
The policy says the most esure will pay out for money is £750.  It defines money as:
Personal Money You have for private reasons in the following forms:
 current coin or banknotes, cheques and travellers cheques
.Esure have offered Mr S £500 to settle this part of the claim.  Mr S says hes lost more than 
this.  He says he had a change jar containing about £200, a pot with about £600 worth of £2 
coins and a collection of rare 50p and £2 coins and new £5 notes, which he estimates had a 
face value of about £400.  The only evidence he could provide was a photo of the empty 
change jar and a photo showing the pot in the background.
Ive thought carefully about this.  Despite the effort Mr S has made, I dont think anything Ive 
seen evidences how much was in the change jar or savings pot.  So I dont think its fair to 
say esure have undervalued these and should offer a higher settlement figure.
Nor can I say that esure were wrong to include the collection of coins and notes within the 
money settlement.  Im aware that certain coins can be bought and sold for more than their 
face value if, for example, they include a particular design.  
But, again, theres no evidence that persuades me these were unusual coins.  Everything Mr 
S has described is a current coin or banknote and circulate freely at their face value.  And in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think it was reasonable for esure to include 
them within the definition of money.  
As theres no way to know how much cash was included here, I think esures offer of £500 is 
reasonable. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ss complaints that esure delayed and provided Mr S with poor 
customer service.  Esure have accepted they fell short in these respects and have paid him 
£100 compensation.  On the basis of what Ive seen, I think this is reasonable.
Due to his family circumstances at the time of the burglary, Mr S wasnt able to provide all 
the information esure requested from him immediately.  I understand the reason why.  But I 
cant say esure should pay compensation for delays which werent their fault.  Ive seen that 
esure put their settlement to his about six weeks after the burglary.  So, while esure admit 
they could have referred part of the claim to one of their experts more quickly, I cant see any 
other delay.
I havent seen any other poor service beyond that already acknowledged by esure.  So I 
dont think they need to pay any more compensation for that.  Nor do I think they need to 
increase the settlement offer theyve made to Mr S and Miss B to resolve their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss and Miss Bs complaint about esure 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman