DRN-4172161
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs H wanted to remortgage away from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
They complain that Halifax failed to send requested information in good time to their solicitor, 
so they lost an offer for an equity release mortgage with a different lender. 
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr F and Mrs H, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr F. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr F said he had an offer from a different lender, to remortgage away from Halifax. But he 
said Halifax failed to send information to his solicitor in good time. Mr F said he lost the deal 
with his prospective new lender, because of delays that Halifax caused. 
Mr F said hed complained, and Halifax sent two letters, one from 5 October 2022 which said 
Halifax would uphold his complaint, because it had incorrectly told Mr F on 4 October that 
redemption statements hadnt been sent to his solicitors in September. But this letter said 
that was wrong, the statements were issued on 23 September. Halifax then said it would 
send these statements again, and it didnt offer Mr F any compensation. 
Mr F challenged that, and Halifax wrote again on 26 October. It said although it hadnt issued 
revised redemption statement information as fast as it would have liked, this did still reach 
Mr Fs solicitor in time to allow him to take up his offer with the other lender. Halifax also said 
it knew Mr Fs solicitors had also asked for a letter confirming that Halifaxs charge would be 
removed, once the mortgage and two secured loans he held with it were repaid. Halifax said 
that was an unusual request, and it wasnt sure why the solicitor had asked for this. But 
nevertheless, it had done its best to get this letter to the solicitors. It was sorry if that letter 
hadnt reached them in time. 
When this complaint came to our service, Halifax said it didnt think it was responsible for Mr 
F not being able to remortgage elsewhere. It thought an apology was enough to make up for 
the mistaken information it had provided over the phone on 4 October, when it wrongly said 
it hadnt already issued redemption statements. It wouldnt pay Mr F for his lost mortgage 
offer elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax had apologised 
for giving Mr F incorrect information over the phone. Our investigator said hed seen 
screenshots which showed the solicitors requests for redemption statements, and also 
showed Halifax had actioned those promptly. So he thought Halifax had acted on all the 
requests from Mr Fs solicitors, and he didnt think it was Halifaxs fault that Mr F lost the 
offer elsewhere. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had to pay Mr F compensation, just 
because it had said that his complaint was being upheld.
Mr F didnt agree. He felt he was due compensation. And he said Halifax had, since then, 
agreed to waive his debts. Our investigator spoke to Halifax, and it said it had written off the 
two secured personal loans Mr F had, but this was for reasons entirely unrelated to his 
current complaint. His mortgage remained in place. And Halifax said if Mr F wanted to 
complain about the write-off of his secured loans, he would need to give Halifax a chance to 
respond first, before our service could look at that for him.
Mr F still felt he should get compensation. He said Halifax did give him incorrect information, 
and did then uphold his complaint. Mr F said Halifax had caused distress, and a delay in the 
dealing which was missed. Mr F also said hed had to liaise with Halifax in his own time, and 
hed spent time on his phone chasing Halifax, which incurred an expense to him. Mr F said 
hed had to take a day out of work to deal with this. He didnt want to ask for a whole days 
pay, but he did think Halifax should pay £100 to say sorry. Mr F said we should consider how 
much distress the loss of the offer elsewhere had caused to him. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr Fs solicitors asked for redemption statements for his mortgage on 21 September. Ive 
seen Halifaxs notes about this, and those do make me think that the statements for all of his 
secured lending (one mortgage and, at the time, two secured loans) were sent by 23 
September. So I think Halifax did act on the solicitors request. 
On 4 October, Mr F complained to Halifax. What he said to Halifax then was his solicitors 
had told him it had requested these redemption documents, but they hadnt been received. 
Ive explained why I think they had been sent to his solicitors. So I dont know why the 
documents werent safely received and acknowledged by Mr Fs solicitors, but I havent seen 
anything to make me think that was Halifaxs fault. 
I understand that Mr F would have been inconvenienced at this point, but that doesnt seem 
to me to be because of something Halifax did.
At this point, in response to Mr Fs complaint, Halifax did make a mistake. Instead of 
checking whether the redemption statements had already been sent, Halifax just accepted 
what Mr F had said at the time, and apologised for not sending out statements earlier. 
This mistake was corrected on 5 October, in Halifaxs letter, when it confirmed that it had 
sent full redemption information in September.
Mr F challenged this, and he said Halifax still hadnt sent all the information his solicitors 
needed. Halifax said it had received a letter from Mr Fs solicitors, with the somewhat 
unusual request for confirmation that Halifax would release its security if the mortgage, and 
both of the secured loans, were repaid. Its possible that Mr Fs solicitors were seeking to 
ensure that there were no other secured loans, which might prevent Halifax releasing its 
charge over Mr Fs property. 
I can see this letter from Mr Fs solicitors was dated 7 October. That letter didnt suggest the 
matter was urgent, because Mr Fs offer from the other lender was about to expire. It may be 
that Mr Fs own solicitors were anticipating at this point that the offer would be extended, 
because they also requested fresh redemption statements for redemption on 7 November, 
well after the expiration of Mr Fs original offer on 14 October. Given the content of this letter, and in particular the date provided for redemption information, I dont think that Halifax ought 
to have realised immediately that this was a matter of great urgency. 
Halifaxs postroom stamped this letter as received on 13 October. Mr F discussed the letter 
with them on the same day, 13 October. Halifax did then attend to this issue as a matter of 
urgency. It said it was sorry if the letter it had produced to meet Mr Fs solicitors request 
hadnt reached them in time. 
I think Halifax did respond within a reasonable time to the request it received. But we know 
the letter wasnt received in time for Mr F to remortgage before his offer expired on 14 
October. And Mr Fs prospective new lender wouldnt then extend its offer. 
Id like to pause here to recognise that this would have been very distressing for Mr F and 
Mrs H. I know they were relying on this to change the basis of their lending, and Ive been 
very sorry to hear that their prospective remortgage fell through. However, I dont think its 
Halifaxs fault that happened. It appears as if Mr Fs solicitors werent anticipating this either. 
Mr F said Halifax then offered to write off his two secured loans. I havent been able to see 
this is related to Mr Fs current complaint. So I dont think that changes the position here.
Having considered the facts of this case carefully, I can only see that Halifax made one 
mistake, which was that it didnt check right away, on a call on 4 October, whether it had 
issued Mr Fs redemption information already. Instead, on that call, it accepted what Mr F 
told it (which is what I assume his solicitors had told him) that these documents hadnt been 
received. That mistake, as Ive noted, was corrected in writing a day later. So I dont think 
that Halifax needed to do more than to apologise for this. 
I know Mr F and Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision, but for the above reasons, I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman