DRN-3361612
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society did not allow him to make extra payments
to his credit card in the way he wanted to.
What happened
Mr C had a Nationwide credit card. He says that as money saving experts suggested that he
would be able to save interest by making an extra payment on top of his direct debit
payment, he decided to set up a standing order for £30 to clear his outstanding balance
faster and reduce the interest he paid to Nationwide, in addition to paying his direct debit
which is set up to collect his minimum payment.
Mr C said he noticed the direct debit sometimes wasnt being taken. As a result, he said he
was paying more interest than intended. Mr C moved the date of his standing order, so this
wouldnt clash with the direct debit being taken, but he said he still experienced issues with
Nationwide not taking both the direct debit and standing order payments in the same month.
Mr C had a telephone discussion with Nationwide about this on 15 March 2021. They offered
Mr C a one-month waiver of interest, £50 compensation and they refunded the most recent
interest charge of £27.36 incurred on 8 March 2021, due to Mr C not being told how the
payment allocation works on previous calls hes had with them on this issue.
The following month, the direct debit wasnt taken again, so Mr C made a complaint to
Nationwide, who did not uphold his complaint. They explained using his April 2021 statement
as an example, that the statement was produced on 8 April and Mr Cs standing order of £30
credited his account on 12 April. As a result of this his direct debit payment was not taken
due to the terms and conditions of the account stating that the direct debit they would collect
would be minus any interim payments received.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that she was satisfied that
Nationwide had not made any errors in how theyve allocated payments to his account. She
said that although Mr C had made suggestions about how Nationwide could accommodate
his payment instructions, our service would not be able to tell or advise the society on how to
process direct debits or payments as this is not within our remit.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that while his statements
might show that there have been no missed payments, in some circumstances the amount
taken was not enough to cover the minimum payment due. Mr C added that the main point
of his complaint is that the actions of Nationwide have made it difficult for him to pay
additional funds to his credit card account to clear the balance quicker and therefore not pay
as much interest.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to both Nationwide and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
As our investigator has already explained, our service does not have the power to tell a
business how to manage their procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to
their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry
guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their
customer.
Ive considered what Mr C has said regarding that in some circumstances the amount taken
was not enough to cover the minimum payment due. So Ive had a look at his credit card
statements in great detail from April 2020-June 2021. But Ive found no occasions where the
amount taken was not enough to pay the minimum payment due. So I cant agree with Mr C
on this point.
Next Ive considered whether Nationwide have acted outside their processes by dealing with
the payments in a way they shouldnt have. Looking at Mr Cs statements, Im satisfied that
they have acted in line with what they have said they would do. I say this as the front page
under the minimum payments section explains they will take Mr Cs direct debit payment,
less any interim payments.
For example, Mr Cs April 2021 statement says Your Direct Debit of £25.00, less any interim
payments, will be collected on May 3, 2021. So, because Mr Cs standing order, which was
an interim payment, was paid on 12 April 2021, and was more than the £25 minimum
payment, this is why no direct debit was taken from his bank account that month.
There is also a section called Your payment and what happens next on the following page
of the statement. This shows that interim payments must be received at least three working
days before the payment due date. This is line with what Nationwide say they have told Mr C
previously.
When Mr Cs standing order has been paid less than three days of the due date, his
statements show both the standing order and the direct debit is paid  and the direct debit is
not reduced by the amount of the standing order. This is demonstrated on Mr Cs February
2021 statement. His January 2021 statement shows that he needed to make a minimum
payment of £36.27 by 2 February 2021. By looking at his February statement, this shows
that both the direct debit of £36.27 and the standing order of £30 was collected because they
were both paid on 2 February. So the standing order wouldnt have been classed as an
interim payment here, as it wasnt received at least three days before the payment due date.
Ive considered what Mr C has said regarding Nationwide making it difficult for him to pay
additional funds to his credit card account to clear the balance quicker and therefore not pay
as much interest. But Im not persuaded this is the case. I say this because they have tried
to help Mr C amend the date of the standing order to accommodate his desire to pay extra
(albeit this ultimately didnt work as Mr C intended it to work). They have also showed on the
statement the many different ways that he could make payments/additional payments.
In summary, Nationwide have collected Mr Cs payments as set out how they would do on
his credit card statements. When his standing order was not paid less than three days priorto the payment due date, it was not counted as an interim payment and the extra payment
was made. When it was paid three days or more before the payment due date, the direct
debit was reduced by £30 and this resulted on some occasions of a direct debit not being
taken as his minimum payment sometimes was less than £30. So as Nationwide have fairly
followed their procedures here, it follows that I dont intend to ask Nationwide to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Nationwide said they didnt have any further information to provide in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr C did not reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman