DRN-2646824
The complaint
Mr and Ms W complain that Union Reisevericherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim they 
made on their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms W had booked a specialist tour abroad, which was due to take place in June 
2020. They paid a deposit for the tour to the tour company, which Ill refer to as E. The 
remaining balance was due to be paid in April 2020. They booked flights through a separate 
provider. 
In March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and resulting international and national 
travel restrictions, Mr and Ms W got in touch with E to discuss its position on refunds. E 
offered Mr and Ms W a credit voucher for the value of their deposit. Es terms and conditions 
didnt allow for cash refunds and also set out that the voucher would be valid for 12 months 
from the date it was issued. Mr and Ms Ws flights were ultimately cancelled. They were able 
to obtain a full refund for the costs of their flights. However, as Mr and Ms W were seeking a 
cash refund of their tour deposit  which theyd also been unable to recover through their 
credit provider  they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
URV didnt agree to settle Mr and Ms Ws claim. It said the policy only covered cancellation 
costs which couldnt be recovered from elsewhere. In this case, while it acknowledged that 
Mr and Ms W wouldve preferred a cash refund of their costs, it considered theyd recovered 
their financial losses through Es credit voucher.
Mr and Ms W were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think URV had treated Mr and Ms W unfairly. She acknowledged that 
Mr and Ms W had taken reasonable steps to recover their deposit. But she thought the policy 
terms made it clear that URV would only cover irrecoverable costs. She thought that at the 
time Mr and Ms Ws claim had been made, itd been fair for URV to conclude that Es credit 
voucher did reimburse them for their losses. She also explained that if Mr and Ms W were 
unhappy with the way the policy had been sold to them; theyd need to make a separate 
complaint about that issue.
Mr and Ms W disagreed. Ive summarised their response. They said they couldve chosen 
not to take out travel insurance and decided to bear their own risk. But theyd opted for 
URVs policy to pass on that risk. Theyd felt the policy theyd chosen covered all of the 
areas of potential concern. They considered that their trip had been abandoned, rather than 
cancelled. They were looking into whether E was prepared to extend their credit voucher 
(which was due to expire)  but they said theyd never wanted a voucher. They told us they 
no longer had the funds to travel to their original destination. They felt that URV had an 
obligation to pay their claim. They didnt think the question we should be considering is 
whether or not URV had done something wrong  they considered their claim should be 
paid. They also queried whether URV was bound by guidance issued by the Competition 
and Markets Authority. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms W, I think it was fair for URV not to 
pay their claim. Ill explain why.
First, as the investigator explained, our role is to look into individual complaints brought by a 
consumer about a financial business we cover to decide whether the business has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right. Where the dispute turns on whether an insurer 
has handled a claim fairly, the key issues well need to think about are whether it acted 
reasonably and whether it did anything wrong. As part of that consideration, well need to 
consider, amongst other things, the relevant regulators rules (in this case, the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook) and the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In deciding whether URV met these 
obligations, Ive carefully thought about, amongst other considerations, the terms of the 
insurance policy; the available evidence and the circumstances of Mr and Ms Ws claim.
Ive first looked at the terms of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr and Ms Ws contract 
with URV. Mr and Ms Ws overall trip had to be cancelled before they travelled, rather than 
due to their flight being delayed or cancelled after theyd already begun their trip. I 
appreciate Mr and Ms W consider their claim shouldve been dealt with under the 
abandonment section of the policy. But I think URV appropriately considered it in line with 
the cancellation cover the policy provides. The policy says that if a trip has to be cancelled 
because of an unforeseen or unavoidable event:
We will pay you up to £7,500 for your share of any pre-paid expenses that are directly 
related to your trip, which you cannot get back from anyone else, or which cannot be 
transferred or used for another purpose.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Ms Ws trip had to be cancelled as a result of Covid-19. URV 
hasnt suggested that the circumstances of their claim arent covered. But it says that as E 
has offered Mr and Ms W a credit note for the full value of their deposit; they havent suffered 
a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy wording makes it clear 
that URV doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from elsewhere. 
Ive seen a copy of the email from E, which explained that itd offered a credit voucher for the 
value of Mr and Ms Ws booking. Having checked Es terms and conditions, I can see this 
voucher was valid for one year from the date of issue  which meant it was valid until 20 
March 2021. So I think it was fair for URV to conclude, in June 2020, when it considered the 
claim that Mr and Mr and Ms W hadnt suffered a financial loss, because the credit note 
would cover the full value of their deposit. 
And Ive also seen a copy of an email Mr W sent to E in May 2020  around five weeks after 
the credit voucher had been issued. Mr W said that hed made some enquiries regarding 
using the credit note in the UK with a company based in a UK town. Mr W also stated that 
the UK-based company had been completely amenable to this arrangement, but (he) would 
still prefer a cash refund if possible. So I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to conclude that Mr and Ms W mightve been in a position to use the credit note before it 
expired, especially as it doesnt seem they had to travel abroad to use it. And it doesnt seem 
that the terms of it were overly restrictive. 
I can understand why Mr and Ms W might prefer to get a cash refund for their deposit costs. 
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain and I understand 
theyve told us theyre currently in some financial difficulty. Im also aware that the voucher 
expiry date passed a few weeks ago. Mr and Ms W indicated that they planned to ask E to 
extend the expiry date, but they havent let us know whether it was prepared to do so. If E 
has declined such a request, its open to Mr and Ms W to provide evidence to URV which 
explains that its offer has now expired and Id expect URV to consider any new evidence.
As the investigator explained, travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and I 
think the extent of cover in the policy booklet has been made clear. If Mr and Ms W feel that 
their policy has been mis-sold to them though, theyll need to make a new complaint about 
that specific issue to URV first before we can potentially help with it.
Taking everything into account, I think it was fair for URV to rely on the evidence it had 
available in June 2020 to consider that Mr and Ms W suffered a financial loss in the 
circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for URV not to settle their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman