DRN-1744508
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited made a mistake when 
processing his pension payments, which led to him having to pay more income tax.
Mr H is supported by a firm of independent financial advisers (IFA) both in overseeing his 
pension account and in bringing this complaint. 
What happened
In early April 2018, the IFA, on Mr Hs behalf, told Prudential that Mr H wanted to take 
income from his pension account via a phased drawdown arrangement. The IFA sent an 
online instruction, which indicated that Mr H wanted to receive a combination of tax-free 
cash and taxable income.
Shortly after, the IFA told Prudential the instruction was wrong. It said it had incorrectly 
asked Prudential to set up a phased drawdown arrangement, when what Mr H wanted was 
an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) arrangement. The IFA asked Prudential 
to amend the instruction to ensure Mr H received a UFPLS payment of £1,316.60 a month 
(on top of another payment not specifically relevant to this complaint). 
According to Prudentials files, in May 2018, Mr H received the following UFPLS payments:
3 May 2018 - £1,316.60
29 May 2018 - £1,316.60
And in addition, he received another payment of £986.50 on 9 May 2018.
In July 2018 there were email exchanges and phone calls between the IFA and Prudential to 
discuss Mr Hs pension payments. Amongst those:
On 4 July 2018 the IFA said Mr H wanted to receive all of his pension payments on 
the same date, but it had been unable to arrange this online. It also asked Prudential 
to check the amount of a payment made on 29 May 2018, as the IFA didnt think it 
was right (it said Mr H apparently received £1,119 instead of £1,316.60) even though 
other payments, including the one made on 3 May 2018 (which the IFA indicated was 
April 2018s payment) was for the right amount.   
On 10 July 2018 the IFA said (noting that Prudential had already indicated UFPLS 
payments were being made) Prudential seemed confused when it said there was no 
way to enable all of Mr Hs pension payments to be made on the same date. 
Whereas the IFA thought that contradicted an earlier conversation it had with 
Prudentials account manager who suggested payments could be made on the same 
date if changed to a UFPLS payment. 
Prudentials account manager replied later that day. She explained payment due 
dates  specifically that, with a regular UFPLS payment, both the TFC (tax free 
cash) and the income leave us on the same date. The account manager apologised 
for any mixed messages previously given. She also said The client is on a month 1 
tax code and has had 2 payments in the same tax monthTherefore, the tax has 
been taken slightly higher for the second payment, as the tax calculation has been 
done on the total amount paid in that period.
In April 2019, Prudential sent Mr H a P60 showing his pension income and tax paid in the 
financial year ending 5 April 2019. The IFA complained to Prudential. It said Mr Hs P60 for 
2018/19 was wrong and therefore HMRC couldnt refund the tax hed overpaid. The IFA 
asked Prudential to look into this, so that Mr H could apply for a tax refund.  
Prudential responded In July 2019. It said Mr Hs P60 was correct, as it showed all of the 
payments hed received and the tax that was due as a result. The IFA asked Prudential to 
look into the matter again and said that Mr H would be looking for compensation in respect 
of the overpaid tax. 
Prudential sent another response later in July 2019. It upheld Mr Hs complaint. It explained 
it had amended the payment instruction in April 2018 as requested but forgot to cancel the 
previous instruction relating to phased drawdown payments. So, that meant Mr H received 
additional taxable income of £986.50 in 2018/19, which increased the amount of tax due by 
£197. Prudential paid Mr H £100 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused by 
its error. However, it felt the IFA would have known about the error around July 2018 and 
could have done more to correct it. So, Prudential didnt think it was responsible for the 
additional tax that became due and said it wasnt going to reimburse Mr H for the equivalent 
amount. Prudential added that multiple payments being sent to Mr H in one month (and the 
fact he was subject to month one tax code) could have caused him to be over taxed and 
suggested he might want to contact HMRC about that.
The IFA responded and said Mr H wasnt satisfied with the £100 compensation paid. It said 
he wanted a full refund of £197 (but was willing to accept £97 on top of the compensation of 
£100 already paid). That was because, by its own admission, the error stemmed from 
Prudentials failure to properly act on Mr Hs instruction. Prudential said it had nothing further 
to add.
Mr H, via the IFA, brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt 
Prudential hadnt done enough to address the impact of its mistake. So, she said it was fair 
for Prudential to refund the full amount of the additional tax (£197) that became due.  
Prudential didnt accept the investigators assessment. Amongst other things, it said that 
whilst it made an error in making two payments to Mr H in May 2018, the original error 
stemmed from the IFAs incorrect instructions; so, Prudential felt the IFA should bear some 
of the responsibility to make sure things were set up correctly. It also felt the IFA was aware 
of the mistake in July 2018 and should have taken steps to have it corrected then. 
As Prudential didnt agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Prudential to say, having 
recognised its error, that it wasnt prepared to refund an amount equivalent to the additional 
tax that became due. In thinking about this question, Ive taken account of Prudentials 
arguments that the IFA should have checked the instruction had been amended properly in April 2018. And that it should have taken steps to correct the mistake once it became aware 
of it in July 2018. But Im not persuaded by either of those arguments.
Once the IFA made it clear to Prudential in April 2018 (having quickly noticed its own error) 
what the right payment instructions were, I think it was reasonable for the IFA to assume that 
Prudential would act on those instructions. And that action should have included cancelling 
the previous (incorrect) instruction concerning the phased drawdown. But Prudential didn't 
do that. And I don't think its reasonable for Prudential to say that the IFA should have again 
checked the amended instructions had been acted upon. Prudential is the administrator for 
the account, so only it could update the payment arrangements and cancel the previous 
incorrect instruction. And I think it was reasonable for the IFA to expect Prudential to do that.  
Further, whilst there were a few exchanges between the IFA and Prudential in July 2018, 
Ive seen nothing that persuades me the IFA was aware of Prudentials earlier mistake 
around July 2018. And I think if the IFA had known about the mistake, its likely, on balance, 
it would have taken action to address it. Thats because, Mr H had gone to some lengths to 
set up his pension payments in a tax efficient manner  including instructing an IFA to help 
him do that. So, I think its reasonable to assume that if the IFA noticed a problem that was 
likely to adversely affect Mr Hs specific arrangements, it would have contacted Prudential to 
sort it out. And Prudential hasnt provided any evidence - beyond its comments  to support 
its position that the IFA was aware of Prudentials error. And whilst Ive seen 
correspondence, in July 2018, concerning apparent confusion on Prudentials part about 
payment dates and Mr Hs instructions, Ive seen nothing to suggest the IFA would have 
known Prudential hadnt cancelled a previous payment instruction.
Also, whilst explaining payment dates and apologising for any mixed messages, the only 
other thing Prudential appears to have brought to the IFAs attention was that Mr H received 
two payments in May and that he was subject to an emergency tax code. The IFA already 
knew about two payments being made in May - it had already mentioned that - and it 
indicated it thought one was for April 2018. So, I dont think Prudentials response would 
have led the IFA to think it needed to take further action. And if Prudential thought the IFA 
had misunderstood the position, or the problem stemmed from something else (as eventually 
turned out to be the case), I think it should have looked into things more closely to find out 
what was going on. Had it done so, its likely to have realised that the first payment 
instruction hadnt been cancelled. But it didn't do that. And, as a  result of its error, Mr H had 
to pay £197 more in tax than he expected because hed received more pension income than 
he wanted. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, it follows that I dont think Prudential acted fairly and 
reasonably when administering Mr Hs pension account. Nor do I think its subsequent 
responses were reasonable in the circumstances described. And I think an appropriate 
response now is for Prudential to pay Mr H £197 in respect of the additional tax that became 
due as a result of its error. I say that because, whilst I accept Mr H received an additional 
pension payment, the amount of that payment was essentially reduced by £197 once he 
became aware he was liable to pay more tax. And, once Mr H became aware (having 
received his P60) about the additional tax payable, even if hed asked Prudential to adjust 
future payments, its still likely Mr H would have had to pay HMRC the additional £197 tax 
that was calculated on the previous years payments.
Ive also noted Prudentials comment that Mr H was subject to month one tax (emergency 
tax code) in the year 2018/19, and that may have accounted for some of the additional tax 
due. That may or may not be the case. But the fact remains that Prudentials error led to 
Mr H paying more tax unnecessarily because hed received more payments than he should 
have done. That happened because of Prudentials mistake. So, I think its fair for Prudential 
to now reimburse Mr H for the extra tax he had to pay. Its also clear that this matter has been a source of frustration and inconvenience for Mr H. But Prudential has already given 
him £100 compensation in respect of that. So, Im satisfied that amount fairly recognises the 
impact of Prudentials actions and I dont intend to instruct it to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr H 
£197 in respect of the additional income tax that became due as a result of its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman