DRN-3919333
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Euroins AD declined a claim she made under her travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss H booked a holiday abroad  with her due to be travelling between 10 January 2022 
and 22 January 2022. The holiday was one in which Miss H would be travelling in a group, 
with a planned itinerary. The itinerary included travelling to various areas of the country, with 
excursions and accommodation included. 
Miss H travelled on holiday as planned. But shes explained that on 14 January 2022 she 
was signed off the planned trip. This was because a member of the group she was travelling 
with tested positive for Coronavirus. And as a result, the government of the country she was 
in required the group to quarantine for 10 days. This meant Miss H was no longer able to 
continue on the tour  with her having to stay in the one place. 
As Miss H was no longer able to complete the rest of the tour, including making use of the 
pre-booked accommodation and travel, she made a claim under her travel insurance policy 
for the unused portion of her trip. 
Euroins considered Miss Hs claim and declined it. It said for Miss Hs claim to be accepted 
under the curtailment section of her policy, the trip would have been needed to have been 
cut short. Euroins said the trip hasnt been cut short, as Miss H hadnt returned home, but 
stayed abroad. So, it wouldnt provide cover for the unused portion of Miss Hs trip. Euroins 
said that it would however pay the costs Miss H incurred for staying in accommodation after 
the original trip date passed.
Miss H didnt feel this was fair. She felt the trip was cut short, because she had to isolate and 
wasnt able to continue travelling the country as intended. Or make use of the booked and 
paid for itinerary. Because Miss H remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered Miss Hs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
noted that for Miss Hs curtailment claim to be covered, her trip needed to have been cut 
short, with Miss H returning home. Our investigator said this hadnt happened, as Miss H 
was abroad for the full duration of her planned trip. So, they didnt recommend Euroins do 
anything differently. 
Miss H disagreed and reiterated that she considered her trip to have been curtailed. 
As Miss H disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision to the parties, detailing my intended decision. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on upholding this complaint, and requiring Euroins to reassess Miss 
Hs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Ive explained this below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Euroins 
acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Miss Hs claim. And I dont 
think it did. 
Ive reviewed Miss Hs policy documentation, to see what cover is provided to her. From 
doing so, I can see that Miss Hs policy provides cover for cancellation and curtailment of a 
holiday in particular circumstances.  
The relevant section of the policy notes that:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion of 
your travel and accommodation you have paid.and you suffer a financial loss because 
youcut your trip short and return home early during the period of insurance because of 
the following:
The section then lists a number of covered circumstances, including the need to cut a trip 
short because of the illness of Miss H, a close relative, her travelling companion or anyone 
she had arranged to stay with during her trip. As well as the need to cut a trip short because 
one of those people received a diagnosis of Coronavirus within 14 days of the start of the 
trip. 
Based on the above, Im aware that Miss Hs trip needed to have been cut short because of 
one of the listed reasons in the cancellation and curtailment section. And she needed to 
have returned home early.
Miss H didnt return home early. So, based on a strict application of the policy terms, I accept 
Miss H doesnt satisfy the requirements under this section of the policy, for her claim to be 
covered.
But my remit is also to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And in this 
case, I dont think a strict application of the policy terms is fair or reasonable. The reason 
Miss H didnt return home early is because she wasnt able to. The country in which she was 
staying mandated that she had to quarantine for 10 days. So, I dont think declining Miss Hs 
claim because she didnt return home leads to a fair and reasonable outcome, based on the 
specific circumstances of the case. 
Miss Hs holiday was cut short. It being effectively curtailed because a member of the group 
she was travelling with had fallen ill, having tested for Covid-19. Which I consider falls into 
one of the listed circumstances detailed under the curtailment section of the policy. 
Miss Hs holiday was effectively curtailed from the point she was signed off the tour, on 14 
January 2022. Miss H could no longer participate in her holiday or carry out the key features 
of it. These being to tour the country she was visiting with a group, staying in several 
locations and participating in activities. Miss H could no longer travel to do any of this, and 
instead had to stay in a hotel in the first area of the country she had travelled to. So, I think 
its fair and reasonable to consider Miss Hs holiday as curtailed under the policy. 
Because of this, I think Euroins acted unfairly in declining Miss Hs claim. And I intend on 
requiring it to reassess her curtailment claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of her policy  except for one element, mentioned below. Miss H has said she incurred a £100 phone bill when calling her airline provider from abroad, 
to alter her return flight. And she has included this cost in her claim. Euroins has noted that 
the policy doesnt provide cover for this. So, it wont accept these costs. Ive considered the 
terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy. And having done so, Im satisfied the policy doesnt 
provide cover for costs such as this. The policy only provides cover for the unused portion of 
travel and accommodation costs. So, I dont intend on requiring Euroins to do anything more 
in this respect. And when it reconsiders Miss Hs claim, I dont require it to reassess these 
costs.
Miss H responded and accepted my provisional decision. Euroins didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, I uphold this complaint, and require Euroins AD to reassess Miss Hs 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, other than the phone bill 
Miss H claimed for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman