DRN-1958555
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Limited (Monzo) blocked and closed his account, then 
refused to return his account balance to him.
To put things right, Mr P wants Monzo to return his money and pay him compensation.
What happened
On 15 August 2019, Monzo blocked Mr Ps account and carried out a review. On the same 
day, it decided to close Mr Ps immediately, without giving him any advance notice. Mr Ps 
account had a balance of £550 that Monzo retained. After discussing the matter with Mr P 
and completing a review of his account, Monzo decided to return the funds to the original 
source.
Mr P complained, saying he had sold a mobile phone and needed the proceeds of that sale 
to meet his day to day living costs. Monzo issued a final response letter to Mr P saying it was 
entitled to close his account and that it would be returning the balance to the original sender. 
Monzo also blocked Mr Ps phone number so he couldnt call them.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Monzo should pay Mr P the £550 he 
had in his account. She didnt think Monzo had done enough to justify returning the money to 
source, and felt it should have released his money after carrying out a four-week review. She 
also asked Monzo to pay Mr P £75 in compensation for blocking his phone number, £100 for 
failing to return his money sooner and 8% interest on the £550.
Mr P accepted our investigators findings, but Monzo did not. It said it had sufficient evidence 
to justify returning the funds to the original sender, which it did in accordance with its 
procedures. Because Monzo didnt accept our investigators findings, it asked for an 
ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Im satisfied Monzo acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr P to have his account blocked without knowing why, but 
banks are entitled and obliged to block accounts under certain circumstances, and having 
reviewed the evidence provided to me, Im satisfied Monzos actions werent a mistake.
Having looked at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
Monzo for this part of Mr Ps complaint, given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. So Im not going to ask it to 
compensate him for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account  which both Monzo and Mr P had to comply 
with  say that Monzo could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. When Monzo told Mr P it was closing his account, it didnt give him any 
advance notice.
I know Mr P is frustrated that he wasnt given a proper explanation as to why his account 
was closed. And that he feels very strongly about his complaint. But under the terms and 
conditions, Monzo doesnt have to give a reason for doing so  in the same way a customer 
doesnt have to, should they no longer want to bank with them.
And Ive seen from the evidence provided that Monzo complied with its terms and conditions 
when it closed Mr Ps account. So I cant say Monzo did anything wrong when it closed Mr 
Ps account.
Account balance
I understand Monzo had concerns about the way in which Mr P was operating his account. 
But Monzos general concerns dont necessarily mean Mr P wasnt entitled to the money in 
his account. So Ive looked at the transaction in question, to determine what action Monzo 
should have taken. Having done so, Im not persuaded Monzo acted fairly when it returned 
the money in Mr Ps account to the sender.
Monzo hasnt provided sufficient evidence to justify its decision to return the funds to the 
sender. The sender didnt raise an indemnity to request return of the funds, and Mr P has 
produced evidence to demonstrate he sold the phone and to support the manner in which he 
received payment.
The transfer to Mr P gave the reference phone, which ties in with what Mr P says he was 
selling. And while the first name on the payment didnt exactly match Mr Ps, it seems to be a 
close enough match that it can be explained as an error. Ive also seen a text message Mr P 
sent to the sender asking to return the funds to him, after Monzo had returned them. The 
sender didnt reply.
Monzo also blocked Mr Ps phone number, which it has accepted it shouldnt have done. 
And it has agreed to pay Mr P compensation for the trouble and upset that caused him.
Because of what Ive said above, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show Mr P 
wasnt entitled to the money in his account. That being the case, Monzo will need to take 
further actions to put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been in, but for its actions.
In order to do so, Monzo must pay Mr P:
£550, representing the balance in his account at the date of closure;
8% interest on that balance from 10 September 2019 to the date of payment in 
accordance with this decision;
£100 to compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset he experienced; and
£75 for blocking his phone number.The interest is payable from 10 September, because Monzo is entitled to take some time in 
considering what to do with Mr Ps funds. But because of what Ive said above, it should 
have returned those funds to Mr P after it had completed its review.
The compensation Ive awarded for the blocked phone number and general trouble and 
upset take into account that Mr P was struggling for money at the time, which compounded 
Monzos decision to deny Mr P access to his funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Limited must pay Mr P:
£550, representing the balance in his account at the date of closure;
8% simple interest on that balance from 10 September 2019 to the date of payment 
in accordance with this decision;
£100 to compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset he experienced; and
£75 for blocking his phone number.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman