DRN-2452203
The complaint
  Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide trading as Cheshire 
Building Society) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
 Ms B was sold an MPPI policy in 1999 that covered her against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed and her complaint was then 
passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 October 2020 upholding Ms Bs complaint. Within the 
decision I made the following findings:
I hadnt seen enough from Nationwide that showed it gave sufficient information to 
Ms B regarding the costs of the MPPI policy.
This would have mattered to Ms B because she had demonstrated that she had 
substantial other means in savings. She had also provided our service with a 
consistent recollection of her sick pay entitlement.
I concluded that if Ms B had been provided with clear information, she more likely 
than not would have not taken the MPPI policy as she had substantial other means 
and wouldnt have found it of value. Because of this I upheld Ms Bs complaint and 
then asked both parties for comments by 31 October 2020.
Both parties have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Ms B responded on 3 October 2020 and has nothing further to add.
Nationwide responded on 14 October 2020 and does not agree with the findings given within 
my provisional decision. It says it is a fact that it gave clear information to Ms B and referred 
me to a PPI leaflet, policy document and insurance schedule that it says Ms B would have 
been given at the time that it says gave clear costs. It adds that it does not doubt Ms Bs sick 
pay and savings from the time, but it gave clear information to her, but it was up to Ms B to 
make a decision to add the MPPI policy. It also wanted to reiterate that although it no longer 
has sales documents from the time of sale, the policy wouldnt have been set up without Ms 
Bs consent. 
As Nationwide has not agreed with my findings, I have looked at the evidence in this 
complaint again. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
I acknowledge Nationwides comments, but they dont change the conclusion I made in the 
provisional decision. There are very little sales documentation from the time of sale and 
based on what I have in front of me, I have not seen enough that Nationwide did give 
sufficient information to Ms B about the costs associated with the MPPI policy. 
When I consider this alongside my findings on Ms Bs provisions at the time of sale, I think if 
Nationwide had provided clear information, she more likely wouldnt have agreed to have it. I 
dont think she would have found the policy good value.
In conclusion, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Bs 
complaint.
 
Putting things right
  Nationwide should put Ms B in the financial position she would be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. It needs to pay Ms B:
The total monthly premiums she paid for the policy, and
Interest at 8% per annum simple on each of the premiums from the date each was paid 
to the date of settlement. 
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Nationwide should tell Ms B how its worked this out.
Nationwide must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms 
B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms B fair compensation 
in accordance with the above calculation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman