DRN-3955841
The complaint
Mr C complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited Insurance) for 
damage caused by its agent during a loss adjuster inspection. He wants Accredited 
Insurance to pay towards his costs of replacing his roof. 
What happened
Mr C insured his home with Accredited Insurance. 
In late 2022 Mr C noticed water coming through his roof. It appeared to be coming through 
between the joins of asbestos roof sheets and was coming into his hallway, garage and 
utility room. 
He submitted a claim to Accredited Insurance, under the insured peril of storm. 
Accredited Insurance checked weather data and did not find evidence that there had been 
storm conditions in the period recent to Mr Cs claim. 
Accredited Insurance sent out an agent to assess the damage. The agent attended Mr Cs 
home and inspected the roof. He considered that there was no evidence of storm damage, 
and that the water ingress was due to age related wear and tear. 
During his assessment, the agent stepped onto the roof and caused the roof to crack further.
Mr C details that this crack was in the opposite direction on the sheet and meant that no 
sealant could be used on the crack. The agent commented, acknowledging the crack, but to 
the effect that it made no difference as the roof needed replacing anyway. 
Accredited Insurance declined Mr Cs claim for the roof. He complained about the crack 
caused by the agent.
Accredited Insurance responded acknowledging the damage and offering £100 
compensation for Mr Cs distress. It agreed, however, that the roof was beyond its usable life 
and would need replacing in any event. 
Mr C was not happy and contacted us.
Our investigator applied our approach to considering storm damage claims and was satisfied 
that the decision to decline the storm claim was fair. 
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He made clear that he 
was not complaining against the claim being declined, but that he felt that the roof had been 
repairable up until the agent caused the additional crack. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C has accepted that the decision to decline the claim for storm damage was fair, I 
have not repeated my colleagues assessment of this here. I agree that this was fair. This 
complaint focusses instead on what damage was caused by Accredited Insurances agent. 
There is no dispute here that the agent caused a crack to the roof, and I accept that that 
ought not to have happened. Mr C fairly makes the point that the agent ought to have been 
more cautious when accessing the roof and that a risk assessment may have prevented the 
crack occurring. 
The issue here is not whether that was wrong, but what impact the crack had on Mr C. 
Mr C feels that he has been caused the damage of having to replace the entire roof, at a 
cost of around £8,000, and Accredited Insurance thinks that the damage to Mr C was 
negligible as the crack did not change the outlook for the roof. 
I have made further enquiries with Mr C regarding what evidence he might be able to 
produce to support his view. I indicated that, on the evidence available, I thought that the 
compensation offered by Accredited Insurance was reasonable, as the evidence did not 
show that the roof could have been repaired before the crack.
The evidence available to me from Accredited Insurance demonstrated the assessors view 
that the roof was failing due to age related wear and tear and that it needed to be replaced. 
There is no expert view contradicting this opinion. 
Mr C has provided photographs of the roof and feels that the crack caused by the agent was 
different to the areas where water was penetrating through the roof before. He felt that the 
roof could have been re-sealed when the water was only ingressing between the sheets, but 
that the crack changed this as the crack could not be resealed. 
Unfortunately, the roof has now been removed and Mr C is unable to produce any 
independent view to support his account. He declined the opportunity to delay my decision 
so that he could obtain evidence, for example from his roofing contractor who removed and 
replaced the roof. 
I appreciate that he feels that his account is supported by the photographs and that it should 
be self-evident what difference the crack made, but without a supporting professional view I 
do not consider that this account is supported. 
Consequently, I cannot say that Mr C has been caused any additional financial effect 
because of the agents actions.
I accept that he was caused distress and inconvenience, and that the agents dismissive 
comments about the damage caused offence to Mr C, but in my view the majority of the 
emotional impact upon Mr C is not a consequence of the crack, but of the need to replace 
the entire roof, at a high cost. 
I accept that this has had a substantial impact on him, but for the reasons set out above, I do 
not accept that Accredited Insurance was responsible for this. I therefore consider that 
Accredited Insurances offer of compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C has made some further submissions, regarding his view that Accredited Insurance 
concealed the extent of the damage, by not forwarding photographs to us, and that he feels 
he was prompted to make a claim by Accredited Insurances agent. I understand his feelings about this, but I have not seen any evidence that Accredited Insurance has minimised the 
extent of the damage, nor that it misadvised Mr C to make a claim if he thought the leaking 
roof was storm damaged. 
I therefore agree with my colleague, and do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. I realise that this 
will be disappointing to Mr C, but I hope it makes clear that his complaint has been fully 
considered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Accredited 
Insurance Ltd to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman