DRN-1191695
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained about that the broker, Insurance Factory Ltd says he owes a balance 
following the cancellation of his car insurance policy. Mr S is unhappy that Insurance Factory 
passed the sum to a debt recovery agent. 
What happened
In September 2018 the broker Insurance Factory arranged the automatic renewal of Mr Ss 
car insurance. When it asked to see his driving licence as part of the validation checks for 
the insurer, it discovered that Mr S had a speeding conviction from 2016. As a result of the 
change in Mr Ss driving history, the insurers premium went up. Mr S wasnt happy to pay 
the higher amount under the policy  and so it was cancelled. Mr S owed a balance of 
£73.75 on cancellation which he accepted. Ill call this the first policy. 
Insurance Factory arranged a second policy with a different insurer to start on 19 October 
2018. It was agreed that the £73.75 balance from the first policy would be added to the 
second policy. As with the first policy, Mr S was to repay the premium in monthly instalments 
under a finance agreement. 
In January 2019 the finance company realised it hadnt set up the direct debit to collect Mr 
Ss premium. So he hadnt paid for cover during this time. As there were fewer months left to 
pay the premium, the finance company increased the monthly amount for the remaining 
months to spread the costs of the missing first three months. 
Mr S wasnt happy about this. He didnt think he should have to pay for the missed months. 
He cancelled his second policy. 
Insurance Factory said Mr S owed a balance for cancelling the second policy  and the 
£73.75 he originally owed under the first policy. But Mr S thought the finance company 
should be responsible for any amount due under the second policy. He said he was only 
prepared to pay the £73.75. 
Insurance Factory said Mr S would have to pay for the insurers days of cover under the 
second cancelled policy from 19 October 2018 to 25 January 2019. This was £153.96. And 
the insurer charged a cancellation fee of £25. This meant that in total Mr S owed £252.71.
Mr S didnt agree. So Insurance Factory passed the amount Mr S owed to a debt recovery 
agent. 
Mr S has made separate complaints about the finance company and the debt recovery 
agent. 
Our investigator thought Mr S correctly owed £73.75 under the first cancelled policy and 
£178.96 under the second policy. He explained that Mr S could bring a complaint to the first 
insurer if he was unhappy with the premium it recalculated following the discovery of the 
speeding conviction. The investigator found from listening to key call recordings that Mr S had agreed to pay the 
insurance premium under the second policy  and that the insurer would charge a £25 
cancellation fee if the policy was cancelled after 14 days. So he thought Insurance Factory 
had acted reasonably in requesting the insurers balance from Mr S. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision focuses only on the actions of Insurance Factory - as the broker responsible for 
arranging both the first and second policy  and its decision to request a final balance from 
Mr S when he cancelled his second policy. 
Before renewal, Insurance Factory sent Mr S details of its terms of business and set out 
what charges it would make for arranging the policy  and in the event of cancellation. So 
when Mr S decided to renew his car insurance policy, he agreed to the terms and conditions 
Insurance Factory provided. I think Mr S was able to make an informed decision before 
agreeing to renew his policy. 
The insurer sets the premium and bases it on the risk a customer presents depending on a 
number of things; including their driving history. So if Mr S is unhappy with the increased 
premium set by the insurer under the first policy, he can contact them directly about this. 
This isnt something that Insurance Factory is responsible for, so I havent considered the 
pricing of the first policy in my decision. 
So when Mr S cancelled the second policy  having not paid any premiums  he still owed 
the £73.75 from the first policy. I understand Mr S believes he shouldnt have to pay for the 
time on cover under the second policy. But as Mr S was insured for approximately three 
months by the insurer, he had the full benefit of the second policy. So I think its reasonable 
for Insurance Factory to have requested the same from Mr S on behalf of the insurer. 
Insurance Factory has provided copies of letters it sent to Mr S. In October 2018 when it 
arranged the second policy, it said the £73.75 from the first policy would be added to the 
total premium Mr S would repay in monthly instalments. And in February and March 2019 
following the cancellation of the second policy, it provided a breakdown of what Mr S owed. 
It explained that Mr S owed the balance in 14 days in line with the policy and its terms of 
business. It said Mr S could contact it to discuss a repayment plan if he wasnt able to pay 
the amount in full. I think this was a reasonable approach to take. It said if Mr S didnt pay or 
contact it, Insurance Factory would pass the amount he owed to a debt recovery agent. 
I understand Mr S is very unhappy about the actions of Insurance Factory. But it isnt 
responsible for any failure by the finance company to collect the monthly premium under his 
policy. From what Ive seen, I think Insurance Factory acted reasonably. I think Mr S 
correctly owed the balance Insurance Factory asked him to pay of £252.71. So when Mr S 
didnt pay, I dont think Insurance Factory was wrong to pass the sum owed to a debt 
recovery agent. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman