DRN-1854738
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
November 2008 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr H knew he had a choice about whether to take out the URCA.
Mr H says he was told by Halifax in a meeting that he was a special customer, pressurised 
into taking the URCA, and told it would guarantee him a mortgage or loan when he wanted 
one.
I wasnt in the meeting so I cant know what was said. But based on the facts available to 
me, Ive concluded the following.
Mr H had previously had a fee free account with Halifax, so he knew these were available. 
And free bank accounts were widely advertised and available in 2008 from other banks and 
financial institutions. 
While the URCA did provide better rates for mortgages and loans, any financial institution 
would only give a mortgage or loan based on the customers credit rating. 
So, while I dont doubt his honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that if he been 
told he was a special customer and must have the URCA, and he didnt want one, I think he 
would have queried this, looked elsewhere and found a suitable product that met his needs. 
And Mr H couldve closed the account at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr H knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
URCA and he chose to take it out.
Mr H says the URCA was an advised sale. Halifax disputes this but I will accept it was an 
advised sale, as this is to Mr Hs advantage, and doesnt affect my decision.
So, Halifax was required to ensure the URCA was suitable for Mr H and provide him with 
enough information to make an informed choice.
Halifax was trying to sell the URCA to Mr H in their meeting, so I think its more likely than 
not he was given a lot of detail about it. And Halifax has provided evidence that it gave Mr H 
a full information pack about the URCA. So, I think its more likely than not that he had 
enough information to make his choice.
In my view, I cant say the URCA was unsuitable for Mr H. I say this because the main 
benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency 
cover, mobile phone insurance and better overdraft facilities. Mr H says that in 2008 he 
travelled and had a car. And there wasnt anything about his circumstances that would have 
prevented him from using other benefits from the URCA.
Mr H say he didnt use the account benefits, but it was for him to arrange to use the benefits 
as he wished to. While he didnt make an insurance claim, he still had the travel and car 
breakdown cover if hed needed it. And, as I said above, he could have closed the URCA at 
any time but didnt for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr H knew he had a choice and chose to take the 
URCA out; the URCA was not unsuitable for him and there was nothing which Halifax didnt 
tell him which would have put him off buying it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman