DRN-4075485
The complaint
Mr I and Mrs R complain about receiving an email from Santander UK Plc wrongly saying 
they had an interest only mortgage. They ask for compensation. Mrs R has dealt with the 
complaint.
What happened
Mr I and Mrs R have a mortgage with Santander. In September 2022 Mrs R and Mr I took 
out a new fixed interest rate product. 
On 8 October 2022 Mrs R received an email saying their interest only mortgage had expired 
with an unpaid balance. She thought shed mistakenly agreed to new terms with higher 
monthly payments without any capital being repaid. Mrs R said this affected her relationship 
with Mr I, and her health and wellbeing. On 19 October 2022 she received another email 
saying the 8 October 2022 email was a mistake and she should ignore it.
Santander paid £200 compensation for the upset its email caused. 
Our investigator said Santander should pay a further £200 to reflect the impact of the error 
on Mrs R and Mr I. Santander agreed. Mrs R didnt agree, saying this feel didnt fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander made an error when it sent an email to Mrs R on 8 October 2022 asking her to 
get in touch as her interest only mortgage had expired with an unpaid balance. It sent a 
further email on 19 October 2022 saying this was an error. Mrs R says in the meantime this 
caused her considerable worry and upset. 
Ill briefly summarise events prior to this, as it provides background to the complaint.
Mrs R and Mr I had in the past experienced difficulties maintaining payments after a job loss. 
Their finances improved and in early 2022 Santander agreed to capitalise their arrears. 
Santanders letters about the capitalisation said the mortgage was on repayment terms with 
over 18 years remaining. Santanders notes record Mrs R calling Santander on a number of 
occasions in late 2021 and early 2022 to make payments and discuss the account.
Mrs R and Mr I took out a new product in September 2022. The product offer said the 
mortgage was on repayment terms with over 18 years remaining. 
It was unfortunate that the 8 October 2022 email came only a month after Mrs R and Mr I 
took out a new product. Mrs R says she thought the email related to the new product theyd 
taken out in September 2022 and shed somehow agreed to change to interest only. While 
Mrs R is suspicious of the timing, I havent seen anything to suggest this was deliberate on 
Santanders part.
Mrs R says this affected her health and wellbeing and her relationship with Mr I. She says 
the current economic circumstances are causing them worry. I can understand this, given 
theyve previously struggled with their monthly mortgage payments.
While Im very sorry for the upset Mrs R describes, I must in fairness take the wider 
circumstances into account. Santander sent a further email about 10 days later correcting 
matters. The fact that the mortgage was on repayment terms and had about 18 years 
remaining was clearly set out in previous documentation. This could reasonably have alerted 
Mrs R to the 8 October 2022 email being sent in error. Mrs R could have called Santander 
immediately after receiving the email to ask what had happened. I say this because Mrs R 
was able to speak to Santander on a regular basis in late 2021 and early 2022, she dealt 
with taking out the new product in September 2022 and she was able to call Santander on 1 
November 2022 to raise a complaint. If Mrs R had called Santander, it would have been able 
to put her mind at rest.
Taking all of this into account, I think compensation of £400 (in total) is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay £200 (in addition 
to the £200 it has already paid) to Mrs R and Mr I. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman