DRN-3705372
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about his car insurer Ageas Insurance Limited in relation to a claim he 
made to it in November 2021.
What happened
Mr Y had an accident on 30 November which was not his fault. He called Ageas and thought 
it would arrange to collect his car and give him onwards travel. But Mr Y ended up driving his 
damaged car to Ageas repair centre and getting a taxi to work. He didnt receive a call he 
was expecting from Ageas legal team and he was unhappy with the hire car he was offered. 
Ageas asked Mr Y to pay his excess. My Y felt that was unfair  that Ageas should be 
chasing the insurer of the at fault driver. The other insurer did agree liability and Mr Y did 
not have to pay the excess. But he felt Ageas should have done more sooner to get that 
agreement, rather than trying to make him pay. 
In respect of the hire car Mr Y had been unhappy about the car provided. Ageas said it was 
not responsible for that as the hire car had not been arranged by it. Mr Y said his policy gave 
him replacement car cover for a car like his own. He said having only been given a smaller 
car had made it hard for him to work. 
Mr Ys car was found to be a total loss. Ageas contacted the finance provider for Mr Ys car 
to obtain a settlement value. Mr Y wasnt happy about that. When Ageas settled the claim it 
paid Mr Y the agreed value less the amount the finance company had said was outstanding. 
But Mr Y had paid the finance company. He complained to Ageas about the insufficient 
payment he had received. And also because the hire car company had said it needed to 
take the car back as full settlement had been made.
Once the car had been found to be a total loss, Mr Y said he asked Ageas to cancel the 
cover. Ageas said it spoke with Mr Y about his options as he might have wanted to keep the 
policy for a new car. Ageas felt it had been left for Mr Y to decide what to do. Mr Y felt Ageas 
had unfairly continued to take payments from him in the three months since that 
conversation took place. Ageas didnt think it had done anything wrong in this respect and 
wasnt minded to refund any premiums.
Ageas did accept it had misled Mr Y about when the legal team would call him. It also 
apologised for the settlement payment having been split  it said it hadnt known a further 
payment had been made but it should have checked before making the settlement. 
Mr Y remain unhappy. He complained to us.
Our Investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr Y was unhappy so his complaint was passed for to me an Ombudsmans 
consideration. I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Recovery
I appreciate Mr Y would have wanted to be collected sooner. But I can understand that his 
car, as it was in a safe position, wouldnt have been a priority for collection. He does have 
cover for onwards transport though and I see he did provide a taxi receipt to Ageas. Ageas 
file refers to it paying £19.00 into Mr Ys bank. Assuming that sum was paid, Im not going to 
require it to do anything more in this respect. If it hasnt been paid it should pay it now, plus 
interest* from 7 December 2021 the date the proof of this payment was provided to it, until 
settlement is made.
Legal team
Ageas accepts it misled Mr Y about the contact time. Mr Y thought he would have contact 
within 24 hours, but the response time for the team was 48 hours. I dont think this materially 
affected the claim. But I accept it was frustrating for Mr Y to have waited for a call which 
didnt come within the expected timeframe, and then to learn hed been given incorrect 
information. Ive taken this into account when awarding compensation below.
Excess
Most insurance contracts include an excess and this is the first amount of the loss which the 
policyholder is usually expected to pay. I dont think Ageas did anything wrong in initially 
asking Mr Y to pay this. And I know he thinks it could have done more sooner to get 
agreement on liability from the other insurer. But I see Ageas did make contact with the other 
insurer on the day of the accident and it spoke with the other insurer within 24 hrs. At that 
point liability was agreed and within an hour Mr Y was advised he did not need to pay the 
excess. Im not persuaded I could reasonably say Ageas should have done more or that it 
should have acted more quickly. So I dont intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Hire car
Mr Y believes he has cover on his policy with Ageas for a replacement car, not just a 
courtesy car. It is possible to take out cover as an optional extra for replacement car cover. 
This would mean Ageas would, in certain circumstances, provide a replacement car, similar 
to Mr Ys, for Mr Y to use for 14 days during the claim. But Ive seen Mr Ys policy 
documents and he did not have this cover.
Ageas put Mr Y in contact with a credit hire company because it accepted he was not at fault 
for the accident, even before the other insurer accepted that was the case. But the credit hire 
company doesnt act as Ageas agent and Ageas does not control what car it provides. 
Rather the credit hire company provides cars in line with certain industry standards. Ageas 
said it thinks the hire company provided a car in line with those standards  but even if it 
hadnt, I couldnt blame Ageas for what the hire company chose to do.
However, I do think Ageas misled Mr Y in this respect. Mr Y asked Ageas if he would get a 
car like his own. And Ageas agreed that he would  comparable but not identical. But, 
according to detail on Ageas file, Mr Y was never going to be able to get a car like his own 
because, under the industry standards, the age of his car meant he was only entitled to a car 
with a similar engine size  not a vehicle which was overall comparable to his own car. 
I think Mr Y was misled in this respect by Ageas. There was nothing that could have been 
done to change the car Mr Y could get but I think Ageas should have known that the age of 
his car might well affect what sort of car he would be given. I accept it was frustrating for 
Mr Y to get something which wasnt in line with what hed been led by Ageas to expect he 
would get. Ill take that frustration into account when awarding compensation.
Finance companyAgeas was entitled to contact the finance provider. But I note that following this Mr Y did tell 
it that he was making the final payment. It was then a couple of months before settlement 
was arranged. I think Ageas missed the important information Mr Y had shared with it  that 
he was making the final payment to the finance company. And that Ageas should have 
checked the current status before making the settlement. I appreciate it was frustrating for 
Mr Y to only be paid part of the settlement sum. But I bear in mind the outstanding amount 
which had been incorrectly paid to the finance company was only £284.94. And Ageas paid 
this to Mr Y within a few days of him alerting it to the problem. I appreciate this was 
frustrating for Mr Y, and caused him some inconvenience because he shouldnt have had to 
chase Ageas on this issue. I know he has said its short payment meant he couldnt replace 
his car  but Im not persuaded that the payment of just over £5,000 being short by around 
£300 really prevented Mr Y from replacing the car. Ill take the frustration and inconvenience 
Ive accepted Mr Y was caused into account when awarding compensation.
Cancellation
The car was found to be a total loss in December 2021 and the parties were negotiating the 
settlement value. On 23 December 2021 Mr Y spoke to Ageas. Hes said he asked it to 
cancel his policy but it didnt and hed kept paying monthly premium payments to it. Ageas 
has said cancellation was discussed, but it left it for Mr Y to decide if he wanted to transfer 
the cover to another car. Mr Y didnt transfer the cover but Ageas wasnt minded to refund 
his premiums.
Ive heard the calls that took place on 23 December 2021. I accept that Ageas did leave it 
with Mr Y that the policy would need to remain in place until settlement was made. I think 
that was fair and reasonable of it. Thats because the policy was still active. But also 
because Mr Y was using a hire car. Whilst this was provided due to the other driver being at 
fault, and not under the Ageas policy, Mr Y still needed to be insured in order to drive the 
hire car. However, I dont think its fair to say that Mr Y was uncertain in this call about how 
he wanted things to progress. I think he was very clear that he did not want to remain on 
cover with Ageas  that even the possibility of losing his sixth year of no claims by cancelling 
the policy early, was not an issue for him. In the circumstances here I think Ageas needs to 
back date the cancellation of Mr Ys policy to the date the hire car was returned (which 
I believe was during early February 2022). It will have to pro-rate his cover to that date, 
providing a refund to him of any overpaid sums. To any refund amount Ageas will have to 
add interest* from the backdated cancellation date until settlement is made. And, when I look 
at compensation, Ill take into account Mr Ys frustration caused by Ageas failure to 
backdate his cancellation.
Compensation
As Ive explained above, I think Ageas did fail Mr Y at times. In the circumstances here, 
I think £300 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
In reply Ageas said it had now cancelled the policy back to the incident date. It said a refund 
of premiums had been processed on 30 March 2022 to be sent to Mr Y. It said it hoped this 
would impact the compensation Id provisionally suggested awarding. 
Mr Y said he had nothing to add in reply to my provisional findings. When asked by our 
Investigator, he confirmed that he had received the premium refund from Ageas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the cancellation of the policy and premium refund issues have been resolved, Ill remove 
my awards that were provisionally made in these respects. But my compensation award 
(along with that for the taxi cost) will remain unchanged. 
As I said provisionally, I think Ageas always could have backdated Mr Ys cancellation but it 
initially refused to do so which caused Mr Y frustration. That feeling Mr Y suffered was not 
negated or diminished by the fact that Ageas later revised its position. I remain of the view 
that its fair and reasonable for me to take Mr Ys frustration into account when awarding 
compensation. So my provisionally suggested compensation award has not changed.   
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
(Unless this has already been paid to Mr Y)  Pay Mr Y £19.00, plus interest* from 
7 December 2021, the date the proof of payment for this cost was provided to it, until 
settlement is made.
Pay £300 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman