DRN-3459776
The complaint
Mr O complains that, in 2008, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA).
What happened
Mr O had had a bank account with Lloyds since 1994. At some point, Mr O changed to a 
Gold Service account, which was a PBA. This charged a monthly fee and gave various 
banking and insurance benefits. In 2008, Mr O agreed to change to a Platinum account, 
which cost more but gave a higher level of banking and insurance benefits. 
The Platinum account benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, AA breakdown 
cover with home start and relay, mobile phone insurance, Sentinel card protection and no 
interest on the first £250 of any agreed overdraft.  
Mr O complained that Lloyds had mis-sold him the accounts. Lloyds agreed that it had mis-
sold the Gold Service account and refunded Mr Os fees with interest. It didnt agree that it 
had mis-sold the Platinum account. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr O didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O has said Lloyds advised him that loan fees would be reduced with a Platinum 
account, but that this wasnt true. Hes also said Lloyds claimed that applying for the 
account was the best way of qualifying for a loan. 
Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at whether the Platinum PBA was 
mis-sold. 
First, Ive thought about whether Lloyds misadvised Mr O about possibly increasing the 
chance of getting loans, and that loans would have reduced fees. 
One problem is that this all happened about 14 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of everything that happened so long ago. So it may 
not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember as happening. 
And, in fact, there is some evidence that there was a discussion about lower fees  but 
that this was about overdraft fees. A note on Lloyds computer system, dated 15 August 
2008, says account upgraded from gold to plat to save cm od interest £10 for 3mon. I 
read this to mean account upgraded from gold to platinum to save the customer overdraft 
interest  he has paid £10 in the past three months. 
So the Lloyds adviser understood that Mr O was changing the account to cut his overdraft 
fees. Its possible that this is what Mr O is remembering and either misunderstood at the 
time, or has since forgotten some of the detail.
If the adviser did tell Mr O that he would have a better chance of getting a loan, and that 
he would have lower fees for a loan (rather than an overdraft) that would have been 
wrong. But I would need some stronger evidence that this did happen, before I could 
decide that. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr Os complaint on this point. 
It wouldnt be fair to make Lloyds prove it didnt act wrongly  instead, fairly, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant say that 
there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PBA was mis-sold in the way Mr O 
now believes. 
Lloyds says it recommended the Platinum account, and this means it had a duty to make 
sure that the account was a reasonable fit for Mr Os needs. And I think it probably was. 
As well as being able to use the fee-free overdraft, the insurance benefits appear to have 
been potentially useful to him, from what we know of his circumstances  and he either 
registered for, or otherwise directly made use of, some of them. 
So I think Lloyds recommendation appears to have been appropriate. It would then be up 
to Mr O to decide whether for him the benefits, and the convenience of having them in 
one package, were worth the monthly cost. 
Finally, theres no evidence Mr O was made to feel he had to agree to the upgrade.
Overall, I dont think the Platinum PBA was mis-sold. 
Mr O has also said he believes that, during the time he had the account, loans were 
revised without his knowledge.  Ive not looked into that, at this stage. Mr O would first 
need to make a specific complaint to Lloyds explaining what he believes Lloyds did 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman