DRN-2626303
The complaint
Ms P complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Ms P bought the policy in November 2002 when she took out a store card. Ms P and AXA 
agreed that the sale took place in a store. AXA also said that Ms P wasnt advised to take 
the policy  Ms P disagreed and said she wasnt given a choice about taking it. Ms P also 
said the policy wasnt properly explained to her, and that she had health conditions that 
wouldve limited her ability to claim on the policy. 
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Ms P owed on her store card. If shed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid 
out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This wouldve carried on 
until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also included life cover and 
purchase and price protection cover. 
AXA said the total amount charged for the PPI was £50.46, and I understand the store card 
account was closed in September 2003. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. AXA didnt agree and so the 
complaint has come to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA sent in a copy of Ms Ps store card application. I can see that theres a section headed 
protecting your account in which Ms P has signed  separately from her signature for the 
card  to say that she wanted the PPI. Theres nothing on the application form to suggest 
that Ms P wouldnt have been given the card without the PPI. So I think its most likely that 
Ms P had a choice about taking it and decided to do so  I think she probably just doesnt 
remember doing so as it was so long ago.
I dont think AXA advised Ms P to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to make sure the policy 
was suitable for her. But it should still have given her enough information for her to decide if 
the policy was right for her. I dont think it did. 
I cant know how the salesperson explained the policy, including the things not covered  
and Ms P said that she was given no information about the exclusions. Ms P said that at the 
time of the sale she had a health condition which had required daily medication for some 
years. She also said she has had other periods of ill health starting from the 1990s, although 
couldnt confirm whether she was being treated for one of these at the time of the sale.
AXA argued that the condition Ms P mentioned was usually manageable with medication, 
and thus unlikely to cause Ms P to need to claim on the policy. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said. The PPI policy excluded:
any sickness, disease, condition or injury which you knew about or should have 
known about or for which you received advice, treatment or counselling from any 
doctor during the 12 months before the start date;
backache and related conditions unless there is radiological evidence (for example, an 
MRI scan) of abnormality:
psychiatric illness or mental disorders including stress or stress related conditions 
unless diagnosed by a consultant who is a member of the Royal College of 
Psychiatrists and is recognised by that Royal College as being a consultant;
The health conditions Ms P told us about wouldve been caught by two of those exclusions. 
She has been consistent in her testimony and I have no reason to doubt what she has said  
and I dont think I can fairly say that she wouldve considered it unlikely that she wouldve 
needed to claim on the policy because of her health problems. I consider her ability to claim 
on the policy wouldve been limited. 
Because of this, I dont think Ms P wouldve decided to take out the PPI with the store card if 
shed been properly informed about the exclusions and limitations. This means Ms P is 
worse off as a result of what AXA did wrong, so it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms P would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms P owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms P would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms P would have owed each month without PPI  Ms P 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms P 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.D. AXA should tell Ms P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint. AXA France IARD 
should pay her the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman