DRN-1022564
 complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in November 2003.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs C bought the policy in November 2003. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL says the PPI would have been presented as optional at the time of sale, and it would 
have gained Mrs Cs consent before adding it to her store card. Mrs C says on the other 
hand says the PPI was added to her store card without her knowledge or consent. So, Ive 
thought about what shes said alongside the additional information Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Cs credit agreement. This shows Mrs C was given 
the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Protecting your Account   
Mrs C was asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Mrs Cs credit agreement, I can 
see she signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until further 
notice.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mrs C would have understood 
the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have signed for the cover if she didnt want 
to take it out.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs C chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs C has told us she would have received statutory sick pay from her employer if she was 
too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had some savings.
Having thought about what Mrs C has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any statutory sick pay Mrs C would have received and would have 
potentially paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs C was ever 
made redundant and would have enabled her to use her savings for any other financial 
responsibilities she may have had.
So overall, I think Mrs C could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman