DRN-3469754
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of her daughter, Miss B, in relation to a private medical insurance 
policy with Western Provident Association Limited (WPA). 
Mrs B has made a separate complaint about her and her husband, Mr Bs, private medical 
insurance with another insurer. Thats being dealt with separately. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss B has private medical insurance underwritten by WPA 
which renews annually. The policy relevant to this complaint started in August 2019.
On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed national lockdown as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Many private doctors and hospitals were supporting the NHS and 
access to private healthcare was limited. In May 2020, the UK government lifted the 
lockdown in part and whilst some services resumed, not all private healthcare options 
were available. 
WPA provided a rebate of premium to policyholders in light of disruption to services. In 
Miss Bs case, that amounted to a total of £40.
In June 2020, Mrs B complained to WPA on Miss Bs behalf. She said that from       
March 2020, Miss B could only access minimal cover under the policy and WPA couldnt 
uphold its terms. She said that Miss B couldnt access remote GP services or the 
wellbeing helpline because of her age and the full hospital list and non-urgent 
procedures werent available. Mrs B asked which services were unavailable and for how 
long and when the disruption to the service will end. She didnt think that the rebate of 
£40 was sufficient. Mrs B thought the rebate should be 1/12 of the premium for each 
month services were affected. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that WPA had 
acted unfairly. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She reiterated that her complaint is that WPA 
couldnt uphold the full terms of the policy during the pandemic. Mrs B said that this was 
outside the control of both WPA and policyholders. She said that whilst it was right for 
WPA to provide services to the NHS as a matter of priority, it still received the benefit of 
premiums from policyholders, which isnt reasonable. 
Mrs B said that WPA didnt explain how it arrived at the rebate of £40 for Miss B. She 
says that the limited cover that was available to Miss B during the relevant period didnt 
amount to upholding the policy terms. Mrs B asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that WPA treated Miss B unfairly. Ill explain why: 
I appreciate that Mrs B feels strongly that WPA shouldnt retain all of the premium for 
the policy year because Miss B was unable to access all services for part of that 
year. However, Miss B has an annual policy. The terms and conditions of Miss Bs 
policy provide that cover is for one year and that the premium must be paid for WPA 
to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of 
uncertain events over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the 
benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful 
claim has been made. WPA provided cover under Miss Bs policy for the policy year, 
so Im satisfied its entitled to retain the premium.
Miss B would have been able to avail herself of the full benefits for a significant 
proportion of the policy year. WPA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to 
cover the risk of Miss B making a claim during the year. 
Theres no term in Miss Bs contract with WPA that requires it to refund the premium 
in part if it becomes difficult to access private treatment. I wouldnt expect an insurer 
to refund part of a premium if treatment was unavailable due to circumstances 
outside its control  which was what happened here. 
Ive also considered if WPA retained the premium whilst offering no benefits under 
the policy but that wasnt the case. Some urgent treatments were still available. And 
out-patient consultations, diagnostic tests and other services were available in some 
locations. Remote GP services were also available. I dont agree that Miss B couldnt 
access the remote GP service because of her age; it was open to Mrs B to access 
that service on Miss Bs behalf. If Miss B had required other medical treatment during 
the relevant period, WPA could have authorised treatment to be carried out at a later 
date. So, I dont think its right to say that Miss B couldnt benefit from the policy 
during this time. 
WPA offered a rebate, which was more than it was required to do. I dont think that 
WPA is obliged to explain further how it calculated the rebate for Miss B.  
I think that in the unprecedented circumstances arising out of Covid-19 some 
disruption in provision was inevitable but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
that means that WPA is required to refund part of Miss Bs premium or explain the 
rebate further. Considering everything, I think that WPA acted fairly in light of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and I dont think theres anything more WPA should reasonably 
do in response to this complaint. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman