DRN-3469884
The complaint
Mr S complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) unfairly declined his claim on his 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S found he had several plug sockets that were not working in his house, so he made a 
claim on his home emergency policy that he held with British Gas.
A British Gas engineer attended and said  he was unable to complete the work as there was 
evidence of third-party work that had caused the fault. The wires had been cut and  
disconnected from the fuse box and needed to be rewired. This was not covered under the 
terms of the policy.
Mr S disagreed and said he had not had any work completed on his electrics since it was 
rewired in 1995. British Gas sent another engineer to obtain a second opinion. The second 
engineer also reported that wires had been cut at some point. 
British Gas confirmed that this work was excluded under the terms of the policy  It said it was 
a chargeable repair because the wires had been disconnected by a third-party.  It said it 
could provide a quote for the cost of the repair. 
British Gas paid Mr S £50 for a delay in progressing his complaint.
As Mr S was not happy with British Gas, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they didnt 
think British Gas had done anything wrong. The work required to resolve the issue is due to 
the sockets being disconnected by a third-party, which is an exclusion of Mr Ss policy.
As Mr S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case it was found there was damage to the wires to the plug sockets. Two separate 
engineers concluded that wires had been cut. Mr S said he has not had any work 
undertaken on the wiring since he had it rewired in 1995. And so he does not know how this 
happened. 
Mr S said the sockets were working when he took out the insurance policy in October 2021 
and he contacted British Gas in March 2022 to report the fault, so it would be between these 
dates the sockets stopped working. He could not be more specific than this. 
Mr S said maybe the British Gas engineer took the wire out because he could not fix the 
problem. However as there was already an issue with the sockets before any British Gas 
engineers attended it could not have been a British Gas engineer that caused the damage to 
the wire. 
I think it is unlikely that this damage was caused at the time the house was rewired, as this 
was completed more than 25 years ago. And the issue with the sockets was a recent issue. 
In the absence of any evidence that confirms how or when the wires to the sockets became 
cut, I think that it has to be accepted the wires were cut by accident by an unknown 
third-party before Mr S made the claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And on page 30 it says;
General exclusions 
Work carried out by anyone but us
Unless your product includes accidental damage we wont cover any damage youve 
caused.
If anyone other than us carries out any work on your boiler, appliance or system and 
damages it, or that work has not been completed properly, your cover doesnt include putting 
that right.
Therefore Mr Ss claim is not covered because British Gass engineers both concluded that 
there was evidence of third-party work that had caused the fault.
I acknowledge Mr S has said that no one had undertaken any work on his wiring, so I also 
looked at Mr Ss insurance policy information document to check what was included and 
excluded on the policy. Included in the list of what is not insured is accidental damage. 
I think British Gas are also able to rely on this exclusion to decline Mr Ss claim.
 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not require British Gas to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman