DRN-1660847
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
handled a claim she made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J has legal expenses insurance as an add-on to a home insurance policy. She 
contacted DAS after a dispute arose with a contractor shed employed to carry out works on 
land she owned.
Solicitors, who Ill refer to as D, were appointed to act on Mrs Js behalf. DAS agreed to 
cover Mrs Js legal costs, up to the policy limit of £50,000, after the solicitors assessed her 
prospects of success as being greater than 51%.
Mrs J lost the case when it came to trial, and the opposing party was awarded their costs. 
This meant that Mrs Js policy limit was exceeded and she was liable for the additional costs 
herself. 
Mrs J was unhappy with the conduct of the solicitors, but also complained to DAS about their 
handling of the claim. She said that the solicitors had informed her at an early stage of the 
proceedings that the other party, a company Ill refer to as A, didnt have funds in order to be 
able to pay any damages she was awarded. So she thought that DAS should have declined 
to cover further costs as there were no prospects of success. She was also unhappy that A 
had legal expenses insurance which was also provided by DAS.
When DAS rejected her complaint, Mrs J brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think that DAS had done anything wrong. As Mrs J remained dissatisfied, 
shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Im only looking at the way DAS acted on this claim. I know Mrs 
J is unhappy with the way D handled the case, but the actions of a solicitor arent in the remit 
of our service. Theres two parts to Mrs Js complaint, which Ill consider separately. Im 
satisfied that these are DAS actions in respect of the prospects of success, and the alleged 
conflict of interest which arises from DAS insuring both Mrs J and the A.
The prospects of success
Mrs Js position here can be summarised fairly briefly. She says that D initially assessed her 
prospects of success as being greater than 50% on the merits of her case, and it would 
seem that she doesnt argue that the merits of her case ever took the prospects of success 
below this threshold, even if she eventually lost the case. What she says is that, when it 
became apparent that A didnt have funds with which to pay any award, the prospects of 
successfully recovering damages went below 50%, at which point DAS should have stopped 
funding the proceedings.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Js policy say that in order for a claim to be accepted, there 
must be, and continue to be throughout the claim, reasonable prospects. This is defined in 
the policy as the prospects that you will recover losses or damages or obtain any other legal 
remedy that we have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgment must be at least 
51%. 
The reasonable interpretation of this condition is that if at any point, the assessed prospect 
of either winning the case or recovering damages is below 50%, cover under the policy 
would cease.
Mrs J has said that she was made aware by D that A didnt have funds to pay any judgment 
that was made against them, and that as a result D said it would have to notify DAS of this. 
Id expect that, if DAS had been informed of this it would have asked for a further 
assessment of the prospects of success, taking this information into account. But I havent 
seen any evidence of this, and nothing to suggest that D informed DAS that the prospects of 
success had now reduced below 50%. The jurisdiction of our service doesnt extend to cover 
Ds actions and conduct on the case. So I cant comment on whether D should have told 
DAS about this.
Mrs J also says she informed DAS of this development herself, but looking at the detailed 
contact notes Ive been provided by DAS which detail telephone calls from Mrs J, I cant see 
any mention of this. It seems more likely than not to me that such a significant development, 
which would have had a material effect on whether DAS was able to continue covering 
expenses, would have been recorded by DAS.
DAS has said that it had no record of ever being informed that A had no ability to pay any 
award made against it, and that D was delegated to take many actions on the case without 
needing authority from it. This tends to suggest, Im satisfied, that it had no reason during the 
course of the claim to believe that Mrs Js prospects of success were less than 51%.
On this basis, Im not satisfied that I can reasonably conclude that DAS was informed that 
the opposing partys financial situation made recovering any judgment unlikely. And as thats 
the case, I dont think I can say that it acted unfairly in continuing to fund Mrs Js 
proceedings. It can only act on the basis of the information it has.
Theres an additional point to consider here, which is Mrs Js actions on apparently being 
informed by D that A didnt have funds to pay any award may by the court. The evidence 
here is clear in showing that Mrs J wanted to continue with the case. Indeed, she suggested 
that the sole director of A had personal wealth which would make the recovery of funds 
possible. And the evidence I have available suggests that she was in contact with DAS on a 
number of occasions throughout the course of the proceedings, asking for DAS to contact D 
to expedite matters. I cant see that within this contact here was any mention of As financial 
situation, or the potential impact on the prospects of success.
If, as Mrs J now seems to suggest, she was aware well before the case went to court that A 
wasnt in a position to pay any award made to her, there is the question of why she 
continued with the case, and continued to contact DAS to ask D to proceed with the case as 
a matter of urgency. From what I can see, Mrs Js concern about the ability of A to pay any 
award, and the impact of this on the prospects of success, has only been communicated 
after the case was lost, and she became liable for costs which exceeded DAS maximum 
liability on the policy.I cant conclude that theres enough evidence to show that DAS was ever made aware that 
the prospects of success were less than 50% and so should have ceased funding Mrs Js 
case.
The conflict of interest
Its important to note here that, while A had legal expenses insurance provided by DAS, a 
different solicitor to D was appointed to act on his behalf. The alleged conflict of interest 
which arises here is therefore that the same insurer was funding both sets of solicitors.
I understand that Mrs J is concerned about this. She says that where DAS were acting as 
the insurer for both her and A, the guidance she was given by our service is that DAS 
needed to inform her of this and get her consent to act on behalf of A.
Mrs A hasnt pointed to any policy conditions or legal basis for this, and hasnt said when or 
in what context our service advised her of this. Im not aware of any such guidance being 
issued to this effect by this service. 
If, as it appears, A had a valid legal expenses insurance claim in defending Mrs Js action 
under a policy it held with DAS, then A was entitled to make a claim. I cant comment on how 
DAS dealt with that claim, as Im only concerned with Mrs Js claim on her policy. But its not 
unusual for an insurer to provide cover for both sides. Once solicitors are appointed, they are 
responsible for conducting the legal case and if different firms are acting for the different 
parties then there would not be a conflict of interest.
I cant conclude that DAS acted unreasonably in funding both Mrs J and As legal expenses. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman