DRN-3693157
The complaint
Mr M says Bigmore Associates Limited (Bigmore) was responsible for him receiving a 
reduced value from his defined benefit (DB) scheme when he decided to transfer his benefits 
to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr M was a member of a former employers DB pension scheme in the 1990s. Unfortunately 
the company ran into difficulties and this affected the scheme. It had to go through the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) assessment process, which was initiated in 2009. This 
guaranteed a significant proportion of the benefits for the 30,000 existing and deferred 
members.
In November 2017 the Trustees of Mr Ms scheme notified members that having been 
through the assessment process, the Trustees believed it would be able to leave the PPF. 
Sufficient assets had been identified to be able to buy pension benefits for scheme members 
which were in excess of those available through the PPF. These would be secured through a 
market provider (Legal & General) and the DB scheme would then be wound-up.
On 9 March 2018, Willis Towers Watson (WTW) as administrator of Mr Ms DB scheme and 
acting on behalf of the Trustees, sent members a pack with information about the options 
they had for taking their pension benefits, including transferring funds to another provider. It 
gave an estimate of what the benefits would be worth under each option.
The default option was for members to take their benefits as an annual pension  for Mr M 
this was estimated to be worth around £13,700 a year. About a third of this value wouldve 
been increased annually to take account of inflation. And there were death benefits, for 
example his wife wouldve received a 50% pension in the event of his passing. The transfer 
value of his pension was estimated at about £442,000.
WTW made clear the value it had informed members of wasnt guaranteed because these 
were based on current insurer pricing; the assets the scheme expected to be able to realise 
by October 2018 to fund the replacement pension; and market conditions as at December 
2017.
WTW said that if members opted to transfer their pensions based on the estimated value, 
they would have the right to change their mind. The scheme was expected to exit the PPF in 
October 2018. Around this time another valuation would be available for members to 
consider prior to crystalising their decision.
WTW set out the steps members needed to take to express their preferences, including the 
forms they needed to complete and the deadlines they had to meet. If Mr M didnt want to 
draw a pension with the replacement provider arranged by the Trustees, he had to obtain 
some additional documentation, show that hed received independent financial advice and 
have completed and returned the relevant forms by 8 June 2018.
The Trustees made arrangements for scheme members to be able to receive independent 
financial advice at a reduced cost (a service they could opt for until 8 May 2018). Mr M didnt 
take this up. However, the Trustees also allowed members to seek support from their own 
adviser.
On 3 April 2018 Mr M notified WTW that he was interested in transferring his DB funds. He 
says it was slow to progress matters, he chased the additional information pack again on 20 
April 2018. And arranged a meeting with his financial adviser for 1 May 2018. The pack was 
issued dated 27 April 2018, but Mr M says he didnt receive it until 2 May 2018.
At this point Mr M realised his financial adviser wasnt qualified to provide advice about DB 
pension transfers, and so it introduced him to Bigmore. It became involved on 4 May 2018, 
confirming it was happy to take on the work after an initial review of the paperwork Mr M had 
received from the scheme Trustees.
Bigmore says it sent a letter of authority to act on Mr Ms behalf to WTW on 8 May. It also 
requested certain scheme information. Mr M sent WTW a message on 10 May with his 
advisers details and reinforcing that requests from it for information was time critical given 
the deadlines being worked to.
Over the following few weeks Bigmore chased the scheme administrator for information but 
its attempts were frustrated. WTW later acknowledged that in hindsight it couldve been 
more helpful.
However, WTW said Bigmores requests had been unnecessary. Thats because it already 
had access to the information it required from the information packs that had been sent to Mr 
M on 3 March and 27 April 2018. It also said that given Mr Ms scheme was yet to exit the 
PPF, Bigmores request for a guaranteed cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was 
misguided.
Bigmore says it contacted WTW again on 29 May 2018 and was informed the information it 
had requested couldnt be provided. And that transfer values were now being calculated by 
Legal & General and that any requests to transfer would be based on the new values. It says 
WTW told it that whether the client opted to transfer at that time or in September 2018 would 
make no difference to the transfer value. WTW says it has no record of such a conversation 
taking place.
On 30 May Mr M wrote to WTW to complain about the process hed been through. He said it 
had caused delays in issuing the appropriate paperwork which meant he had insufficient 
time to decide on the best course of action. He hadnt received a guaranteed CETV which 
meant he wasnt able to receive financial advice. And Mr M relayed what Bigmore had been 
told about new transfer values now being determined by Legal & General, and therefore any 
rush to complete forms being unnecessary. At the same time as raising his complaint, Mr M 
notified WTW of his intent to transfer.
WTW failed to respond to Mr Ms initial complaint.
Ultimately, Mr M didnt complete and return WTWs paperwork by 8 June 2018 in order to 
enable him to transfer his scheme funds to an alternative provider. In October 2018 he 
received a discharge form from his DB pension scheme, notifying him that his benefits had 
been secured with Legal & General.
Mr M remained interested in transferring his benefits. And on his behalf, Bigmore sought 
information from Legal & General to start the ball rolling. It wasnt until 7 February that Mr M was informed of the guaranteed transfer value being offered  this was about £375,000, 
around £67,000 less than the estimated value WTW had informed him about nearly a year 
previously.
Bigmore provided Mr M with advice on the basis of the new valuation. In a suitability letter, it 
recommended he transfer his Legal & General pension to a SIPP with Standard Life, and to 
make investments in line with his attitude to risk. Mr M accepted its advice and his funds 
were received into his new arrangement in May 2019.
With Bigmores assistance, Mr M returned to the matter of his complaint against WTW. 
Ultimately his case was escalated to The Pension Ombudsman (TPO) service. Hes 
confirmed:
The TPOs Early Resolutions Team allocated a Technical Specialist, who was very 
helpful in getting clarifications from WTW (and its representatives). It was never handed on 
to an Ombudsman and as far as I am concerned it reached its conclusion. I can confirm that 
I am NOT progressing my case with any other bodies, including the TPO i.e. from the 
clarifications I have received, I clearly feel that Bigmore Associates Limited is the cause of 
my issues (and much stress!) The TPOs actions led to an admission that WTW had been 
slow, should have responded to my letter of complaint, which I took as an apology, and 
clarification of the amount I would have received if Bigmores had allowed me to submit the 
forms ahead of the deadline.
Later Mr M began to have concerns about the role Bigmore had played. He raised a 
complaint against it on 29 October 2020 in the following terms:
It is clear that you agree with me that the way [the Trustees] (and its representatives Willis 
Towers Watson) handled the whole process, is far from ideal. You are aware of the tardy, or 
non-existent, responses, poor communication content etc. However the Pensions 
Ombudsman has considered all of this as part of my complaint against [the Trustees] that 
you contributed to. The Pensions Ombudsman has highlighted just one key point: All the 
other members that transferred out successfully immediately after the Plan exited the PPF in 
October 2018 were able to submit the required forms before the June 2018 deadline. I have 
spoken to other members and confirmed that they were able to transfer out in October 2018 
and the value was in line with the original estimate
...From our first meeting, you and your staff stated in our meetings and communications that 
the FCA did not permit advice to be given based on an estimated value.. The Pensions 
Ombudsman is saying that they are not aware of an FCA rule that would have stopped you 
completing the forms ahead of the June 2018 deadlineThere is not an FCA rule that 
covers using non-guaranteed values, it is your error that lead to missing the deadline for the 
forms to be submitted.
Bigmore responded to Mr M on 20 November 2020. It rejected his complaint saying its 
responsibility was to provide him with suitable advice, irrespective of how much he wanted to 
move to a different pension arrangement. It said WTWs failures meant that the information it 
required wasnt available to move things on in a timely manner. It had consulted compliance 
experts and decided it wasnt prepared to provide him with advice on the basis of an 
estimated pension transfer value.
Mr M brought his case to this Service to consider. An investigator upheld his case. She 
thought hed been led to believe there was an FCA rule that prohibited Bigmore providing 
advice until hed received a guaranteed transfer value. This hadnt been the case. She 
thought Bigmore couldve told Mr M at the outset what the firms position was so that he couldve sought alternative advice. Or it couldve advised him, but clearly stating the position 
would need further review when the transfer value was known.
Bigmore disagreed with the Investigator. It said that WTW didnt confirm that it couldnt 
provide a guaranteed transfer value for Mr Ms pension benefits until two days before the 8 
June 2018 deadline for the paperwork to have been completed and returned. It considers 
WTWs actions are the cause of the problem. It clarified that it hadnt said FCA rules stopped 
it providing advice, but that it did consider the rules on suitability meant it couldnt provide 
proper recommendations based on an estimated fund value and without full scheme 
information.
Bigmore said Mr M wouldnt have been able to find another firm to advise him given the 
constraints it had identified. And that consideration also had to be given to ensuring Mr M 
had enough time to properly review any advice before coming to his decision.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ms complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh and to provide a decision. I issued my provisional decision in August. 
Both parties provided further submissions, which Ive thought about carefully in arriving at 
this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Before setting out my findings and conclusions, I note Mr M initially involved TPO in his 
dispute with WTW. Hes now confirmed that process is at an end. For the record, Mr M cant 
benefit from double compensation in respect of the same financial loss he is seeking to 
recover.
In upholding his complaint I require Mr M to provide an undertaking to Bigmore Associates 
Limited that should he receive any compensation from another party in respect of the 
financial loss he claims here, he will pay that compensation to it. Further, he will need to 
assign any rights to bring a claim in the future against other parties in respect of this matter 
to Bigmore.
Bigmore has identified other parties as being at least partially responsible for what happened 
to Mr M. It has identified what it says are substantive failings including in relation to the 
accuracy of information received and delays in the provision of information.
What Bigmore says in relation to the acts and omissions of other businesses and individuals, 
including the extent and impact of these and any resulting liabilities it incurs as a result, may or may not be the case. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties here. 
Indeed, I dont have the power to review matters concerning certain businesses where these 
dont come within the ambit of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Bigmore may decide to pursue other parties for any losses which it believes it incurred 
flowing from this complaint, where it feels others are responsible to whatever degree for 
such costs arising. Thats a matter for it to decide.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Bigmore for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Bigmore. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms case.
In responding to Mr Ms complaint, Bigmore said:
We carried out a comprehensive financial planning review with you looking at all aspects of 
a potential pension transfer, meeting on a number of occasions to assess and review the 
suitability of giving up the guaranteed benefits the scheme would have provided you. Whilst 
you were strongly motivated to transfer away from [your DB scheme] we first ensured that 
any potential transfer would be suitable for you to consider and subsequently assessed the 
scheme information to provide you with full advice.
the scheme administrators eventually confirmed after multiple efforts to obtain the 
information that they could not provide a guaranteed transfer figure. We expressed a doubt 
that any advisor would be prepared to offer advice on such a basis due to the unlimited risk 
that any such advice could prove to be unsuitable. You made it very clear that your 
overriding preference was to complete a transfer and we sought further advice from our 
compliance support firmon the viability of offering advice on a non-guaranteed transfer 
figure. They confirmed that whilst it was possible to advise on non-guaranteed transfer 
values, they strongly recommended against any such action
After we had made our position clear to you, you then instructed [your DB scheme] that you 
still wished to proceed with the transfer, even with a non-guaranteed transfer value. Whilst 
we recognised the drivers behind your desire to complete a pension transfer, the onus 
remains on us as your advisors to ensure the advice we provide is appropriate. As such we 
acted in your best interests by not running the risk of advising on non-guaranteed figures. 
Just because we could have made a recommendation based on a non-guaranteed figure 
does not mean it would have been appropriate for us to do so. It is disappointing that the 
final transfer value fell from the non-guaranteed figure but unfortunately there was no way of 
knowing what the revised figure would be, especially as the scheme trustees offered no 
information at all regarding this at the time.Therefore, based on the advice process we carried out for you, that was designed to ensure 
you received appropriate financial advice relating to a complex and significant financial 
decision, I do not agree that it would have been appropriate to provide transfer advice based 
on a non-guaranteed transfer value. Whilst other firms may have been prepared to offer 
advice on this basis we made it quite clear that after due consideration Bigmore Associates 
were not willing to do so due to the risks of ultimately offering inappropriate advice to you.
In responding to my provisional decision Bigmore re-emphasised its arguments including the 
following points:
- The transfer value quoted by WTW was an estimate  it couldnt work with the figure 
to provide advice.
- It says it couldnt have met regulatory requirements on suitability  it couldnt have 
advised Mr M about whether he should transfer or not based on the available 
information. 
- WTW told it that the transfer value would be the same whether he opted to transfer 
by the deadline or in September 2018, when the final values were known. 
- Mr M had expressed serious doubts about the accuracy of the information WTW had 
provided in its documentations and so it sought to verify details prior to giving advice.
- WTW ignored Mr Ms expressed wish to transfer from the scheme, which he provided 
prior to the deadline.
Theres merit in some of the arguments Bigmore sets out. Its important to recognise the 
strict regulatory context within which it has to operate.
For example, the rules governing the transfer of DB pension benefits in particular set a high 
bar for firms in how they deal with customers. Thats because these benefits, which are 
usually accrued over long periods of time, are valuable and costly to replicate with new 
providers. So, the general assumption is that such transfers are unsuitable, unless given a 
persons specific circumstances and objectives there is a telling case to proceed.
Its a matter for each firm to decide whether or not its in a position to advise a client and in 
doing so be able to work in their best interests. Any advice it provides must be suitable. Its 
the case that the Regulator and this Service take a dim view of firms which provide advice 
that is later shown to be inappropriate. This can be very costly for the businesses involved 
as well as their clients.
I also note in this case both Bigmore and Mr M had serious concerns about the 
administrative competence of WTW, which they say was unresponsive and caused 
significant delays. WTW has itself acknowledged certain shortcomings in how it handled 
matters in this case.
Further, its arguable that Mr M didnt proceed with matters as quickly as he might have. 
While hes provided some helpful context in terms of his familys circumstances and about 
issues he experienced with WTW, Im mindful that having received the initial information 
pack on 12 March 2018, he failed to proceed to engage an adviser until 1 May 2018, despite 
knowing the deadline for completing and returning his papers to the pension scheme 
administrators was 8 June 2018. 
Of course, Im not considering a case against WTW. And although Mr M didnt act as 
promptly as he couldve, I think Bigmore was aware of the situation when it was engaged 
and its approach more likely than not ultimately caused him a financial loss.Bigmore was approached by Mr Ms financial adviser on 3 May 2018 about whether it could 
help by providing advice to him about the potential transfer of his DB benefits to an 
alternative provider. It responded the next day in the following terms:
not a problem to look at this case for you too.
On the face of it I would have been inclined to agree that [the DB scheme] would have been 
a better option but having read through all the paperwork I am not so sure. The deferred 
scheme pension of £13.7k only has inflationary increases on about 31% of this meaning it is 
unlikely to increase much pre or post retirement. The 50% widows pension benefit is 
average and the early retirement factors are actually quite good but the relatively small 
amount of increasing pension income means the transfer value figure is arguably very good.
The wider circumstances, priorities and risk tolerances will be key as always but just 
looking at the numbers I would suggest it would be a case potentially worthy of a full review.
In responding to my provisional decision Bigmore said:
Mr M did not approach us for advice until there were only a few weeks left to make a 
decision, we did our very best for him to get the full scheme information to be able to give 
him that advice but WTW were obstructive and incompetentfinally confirming a few days 
before the deadline that they could not provide any further information
We made it clear at the first meeting that the timescales would be tight but that we would do 
our best for him, which is what we did.
Its clear Bigmore had sight of Mr Ms paperwork from WTW and that it was aware of the 
deadline being worked to. And by agreeing to take on the work, by implication it considered 
there was time enough to be able to deliver its advice and meet WTWs requirements by 8 
June 2018. In agreeing to advise him it had a duty to work in his best interests.
Although I dont think there was much slack in the timetable at this point, I remain of the view 
there was an opportunity to deliver the financial advice Mr M required to safeguard his 
position. I say this because Bigmore entered knowingly into the engagement. Had there 
been a significant risk of not being able to deliver it shouldnt have taken on the business.
My view here is strengthened by what we know about the arrangements made by the 
Trustees for the provision of financial advice to scheme members. People in Mr Ms situation 
had until 8 May 2018 to inform the firm put in place that they wanted it to act for them. This 
demonstrates at this point there was still sufficient time to get the transfer of Mr Ms pension 
benefits sorted.
Further, Ive reviewed the timetable Bigmore worked to when it actually managed to effect 
the transfer of his benefits from his Legal & General pension. The letter confirming the 
guaranteed transfer value was issued on 8 February 2019. Off the back of this I can see 
from Bigmores case file that it had managed to commission three iterations of the pension 
transfer analysis in quick time. Theres a suitability report dated 25 February 2019 and 
another dated 1 March 2019.
Even taking the final suitability report, the process had taken around three weeks from 
notification of the transfer value, including applications being made to Standard Life to 
establish his new pension and instructions to Legal & General to effect the transfer. I accept 
this speedy turnaround was possible because Bigmore wouldve already completed some groundwork. But as Bigmore acknowledged in a response to the Investigators view, from its 
initial engagement until WTWs deadline for receipt of completed forms was six weeks.
So, I think its more likely than not Bigmore had enough time to have been able to advise on 
the transfer of Mr Ms DB pension funds when it had first been engaged. Ill now turn to other 
arguments its made to support its case.
Bigmore has said that it asked WTW for specific scheme information at the outset. It said it 
didnt respond to its requests for information until it was too late. It says it couldnt deliver a 
proper suitability assessment without a guaranteed transfer value from Mr Ms scheme 
administrator, or without full scheme information.
Bigmore also says it only got confirmation there wouldnt be a guaranteed transfer value 
issued before October 2018 two days before the deadline for completion and return of the 
required transfer forms. It said a different adviser wouldve encountered the same problems. 
Im mindful Bigmore had access to the documents Mr M had received from WTW in March 
and April 2018. The information WTW provided scheme members highlighted some 
important context and information. For example, it was preparing to exit the PPF and so the 
approach and conditions were different to a situation where, say, Mr M was looking to 
transfer out of a usual DB arrangement. Bigmore needed to have understood and gripped 
this important fact, it had important implications for how it needed to proceed.
The information provided by WTW recognised the issue of only providing members with 
estimated fund values. It explained this was because the pricing of its chosen pension 
provider wasnt certain; the estimates of fund value were based on the market position in 
December 2017; and there were uncertainties about the value of the assets it would be able 
to realise by October 2018, which was when it was expected to leave the PPF.
WTW provided a clear statement about the rationale for providing estimated transfer values. 
It shouldve then been clear to Bigmore from the outset that requesting a guaranteed transfer 
value was futile.
WTW did however provide members with some potentially helpful assurances. For example 
in relation to managing a situation where the transfer value changed significantly by October 
2018, it said:
If you select this Transfer Value option now then you will have a right to change your mind 
when we write to you with an updated Transfer Value as we approach the expected date of 
transfer. If you do change your mind, then you will either receive a Deferred Pension with 
Annual Increases in Payment OR a Deferred Pension with No Increases in Payment, 
depending on the selection you make when submitting your Transfer Value Option Form
This effectively provided Mr M with insurance for his decision in May 2018. For example, had 
he received a recommendation to transfer his DB funds, but this had been finely balanced, 
and then hed been offered a much lower transfer value in October 2018, he had an 
opportunity to change his mind.
Bigmore couldve reviewed any initial suitability analysis in good time once in possession of 
a firmer valuation. It also wouldve meant Mr M wouldve had plenty of time between 
receiving advice about the DB transfer in May 2018 and the eventual key decision he had to 
take in October 2018. He couldve taken time to weigh the pros and cons of moving away 
from the arrangement being put in place by the Trustees.Bigmore says it received advice from a compliance professional that it shouldnt advise Mr M 
about the transfer of his DB fund on the basis of an estimated value. That, of course, is an 
operational matter which it can decide. The problem is that it needed to have informed Mr M 
if not immediately, then certainly very quickly. Thats because he still had an opportunity to 
line up another adviser, or perhaps in the worst case (given his sentiments) to have made 
use of the support his Trustees had lined-up by phoning that firm by 8 May 2018. 
Further, Bigmore has remained vague about when it sought compliance input about whether 
it could safely offer advice based on an estimated transfer value. Its not clear how the 
question was framed, nor how much context it provided about the PPF situation or the 
assurances being provided by the Trustees.
Instead, Bigmore engaged with Mr M and gave him the impression it could help him. It 
wasnt until too late in the process it informed him that it couldnt provide him with advice 
without a guaranteed transfer value. And it did so in such a way as to give him an inexact 
understanding, that it couldnt proceed because of regulations put in place by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). It has since explained more clearly what it had meant i.e. that it 
couldve advised him but chose not to do so because it was worried about being able to 
produce a suitability report bearing in mind his best interests.
I agree with Bigmore when it says that no other adviser firm wouldve been able to provide 
Mr M with advice if it had waited until two days before WTWs deadline for completions and 
return of the transfer forms. But the telling point is that it shouldnt have waited until this 
point. It had the information it needed to decide how to proceed, even if that was to inform 
Mr M it couldnt help him. In this case, I think its more likely than not hed have been able to 
find another firm to advise him.
I understand the arguments Bigmore makes about needing to adhere to regulation. But I 
dont think it needed to act outside the current regime in order to provide Mr M with the 
support he needed, even if that had been a quick decision on whether or not it would be able 
to advise him. I also recognise other parties had significant roles in what happened in 2018. 
But Im only considering the acts and omissions of parties to this complaint.
Bigmore has also now provided more details of the information it says it was lacking in order 
to conduct a full transfer value analysis report (TVAS). It needed confirmation of the start 
date of Mr Ms DB scheme; the policy booklet; joining and leaving dates; the split of 
guaranteed and other benefits; and early/later retirement factors.
Again, Bigmores arguments arent without merit. But as Ive already set out, it had an 
opportunity to provide Mr M with initial and caveated suitability advice, safe in the knowledge 
there was plenty of time later to review and firm up its position. 
Further, its of note that in March 2019 Bigmore advised Mr M to transfer his DB pension to a 
SIPP based on a CETV offer from his new provider Legal & General, which it acknowledged 
was 15% less than the indicative figure provided by his former scheme. 
In its suitability report Bigmore said if Mr M was to seek a level of benefits from an insurer 
comparable to those provided by his DB scheme, this would cost him around £131,000 more 
than the £375,000 transfer value he was being offered. It stated the annual investment return 
required from his funds would need to be around 14% to match his then existing benefits.
The point here is that Bigmores recommendation wasnt driven by a basic financial case for 
transferring. Its advice, in relation to a smaller transfer value than had been achievable, was 
based on matters specific to Mr Ms circumstances. For example, its suitability report 
summarised for Mr M in the following terms:You have the security of your State Pensions and [your wifes] Teachers Pension, which 
will provide you with a guaranteed, secured income, which increases with inflation and 
provides a pension for [you] on [her] death. By transferring the [DB] pension to a Standard 
Life Wrap SIPP, you can benefit from flexible income now and manage your tax position by 
using tax free cash, while remaining invested for growth and potentially keep a pot of money 
available for your beneficiaries on [your] death.
In responding to my provisional decision, Bigmore raised the fact that Mr M wrote to WTW 
on 30 May 2018, notifying his intent to transfer his benefits prior to the deadline, subject to 
certain caveats. WTW failed to respond. While I can see a letter was sent, the problem 
ultimately was that he was required to have received independent financial advice and 
certain forms needed to have been completed. This wasnt the case.
Overall, Bigmore hasnt done enough to persuade me that it isnt responsible for the financial 
loss Mr M has suffered as a result of its engagement and actions.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Bigmore Associates Limited responsible for.
This is subject to the undertakings Mr M needs to provide Bigmore that Ive already set out. 
This includes providing it with information about any further sums hes received from his 
former DB provider and what these were in relation to. The point being, hes not able to 
benefit from double compensation or payment in relation to the matter Ive considered.
WTW, acting on behalf of the Trustees of Mr Ms former DB scheme, has already confirmed 
the following:
The Trustee has made enquiries and is able to give [Mr M] a figure which shows what he 
would have received had he transferred out in October 2018. This is based on the 
hypothesis that he completed the advice process for the non-statutory transfer and 
submitted complete and correct forms by the required deadline. Had that been done, the 
Trustee would have paid him a transfer value of around £434K at the end of October 2018.
So, to compensate Mr M, Bigmore Associates Limited should:
- Calculate the notional value of Mr Ms pension now, had he received the higher 
transfer value in October 2018. Assuming this sum wouldve been invested in the 
same funds and the same proportions as happened in May 2019 onwards (including 
allowing for the time it took to make such investments).
- Find the current value of his SIPP, including investments and any cash held. My 
understanding is that he remains with the same provider. He hasnt made any further 
contributions but has started to take benefits from his pension.
- After confirming the detailed position, then the value Bigmore obtains or the 
calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred 
and on the same dates.
- The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr 
Ms pension and the current value of his SIPP will be his financial loss that Bigmore 
needs to redress.
- If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr M's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. If paying compensation into his SIPP should conflict with any existing protection or allowance, then Bigmore should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so Bigmore should make a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
- If Mr M hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. If he is a higher rate taxpayer, the notional 
allowance would reduce the amount payable accordingly.
- Bigmore must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which this Service 
informs it that Mr M accepts my final decision, and following receipt of the reasonable 
undertakings it requires from him. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement at 8% 
simple a year.
- Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Bigmore considers its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr M how much 
has been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
- Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, and I require Bigmore 
Associates Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman