DRN-2797728
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that George Banco.com Limited didnt provide her with an annual 
statement on her fixed sum loan agreement for the period of 2019-2020.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss A contacted George Banco.com as she hadnt received her annual 
statement. She was told this had been emailed to her in February 2020, when it was due. 
But it was agreed that another copy would be emailed and posted to her, which she has now 
received. 
Miss A didnt believe George Banco.com had already sent it in February 2020, as she 
couldnt find it her mailbox. She said she didnt have any problems receiving emails from 
them in the past. She complained that George Banco.com had failed to comply with their 
obligation of providing an annual statement under the Consumer Credit Act.  
George Banco.com rejected the complaint and said their records showed the statement was 
sent to Miss As email address and residential address on 23 February 2020. Unhappy with 
this, Miss A referred her complaint to our service. She believes George Banco.com have 
changed their version of events as shed been told it was only emailed in February 2020, not 
posted. And she said theyve failed to provide proof it was sent. 
Miss A was also unhappy with how her complaint was handled and the customer service she 
received. She believes George Banco.com shouldve stopped taking payments from her 
whilst the complaint was ongoing. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied George Banco.com emailed 
and posted the annual statement in February 2020. And he was persuaded that they 
wouldve provided this proof to Miss A, had she requested it. He also said the correct 
process was followed when payments were continued to be requested from Miss A after she 
complained.
Miss A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She has 
expressed concerns over the authenticity of the evidence George Banco.com have provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think George Banco.com have done anything wrong. I know this will 
be disappointing to Miss A, so Ive explained why.
Section 77A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out the creditors (George Banco.com) 
obligations in giving statements to the debtor (Miss A) in relation to fixed sum loan 
agreements.
In summary, it requires George Banco.com to send Miss A statements. They must be 
provided at least every year with no gaps in the sequence of the statements, starting from 
when the agreement was made or the first day of the first movement on the account.
If George Banco.com doesnt comply with their duty to provide statements, then Miss A 
would be entitled to a refund of interest paid during the time the statement wasnt sent as it 
shouldve been.
Miss As agreement started in February 2018. She has confirmed receiving her annual 
statement in February 2019. So, the next statement was due on February 2020.
George Banco.com have provided a copy of their system notes which shows the annual 
statement was sent to Miss A via email and post on 23 February 2020 to cover the period of 
February 2019 to February 2020. 
I can see the statement was emailed to the correct email address held on file and also the 
email address provided to our service. The postal address on the statement was the same 
as the details George Banco.com had on their records. 
I appreciate Miss A says she didnt receive the annual statement, but this doesnt mean 
George Banco.com didnt send it. Having looked at the system notes, Im satisfied the 
annual statement was sent via email and post.
Miss A believes the system notes given by George Banco.com arent genuine. She thinks 
this has been put together after her complaint to absolve responsibility. The system notes 
Ive seen are credible and I havent seen any evidence to show otherwise. 
Ive also listened to the call which Miss A has referred to. The customer representative only 
discussed the statement being sent by email in 2019 and 2020. So, I can understand why 
Miss A was surprised when George Banco.com later said the statement was also sent by 
post. 
But Im not persuaded this means George Banco.com have been dishonest or unscrupulous 
as suggested by Miss A. I say this because while the customer representative was solely 
focused on the email, he didnt specify that it was usual practice to send statements by email 
only or imply that George Banco.com dont send statements by post too.
In any event, as Ive explained, based on the evidence Ive seen  which Miss A has also 
now been provided  Im satisfied George Banco.com sent the annual statement for 2020 by 
email and post on 23 February 2020.
As such, I think George Banco.com have met the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 
in providing Miss A an annual statement. And I therefore dont require them to refund any 
interest.
There arent any rules that require George Banco.com to stop taking payments simply 
because a customer raises a complaint. Miss As responsibility to make monthly repayments 
under the terms and conditions of the agreement still remained, regardless of her complaint. 
So, I cant fairly say George Banco.com have acted unreasonably here.
I also dont agree with Miss A that George Banco.com provided her poor customer service. 
They looked into her concerns and responded within a reasonable time. They also arranged 
to send another copy of the statement. These are reasonable steps for George Banco.com 
to take in this situation. George Banco.com gave Miss A their final response letter which explained their position and 
provided referral rights to our service. Unless requested by the consumer, I wouldnt expect 
a business to provide supporting evidence as part of the usual course of dealing with a 
complaint. And Miss A didnt ask George Banco.com for evidence of the statement being 
sent.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman