DRN-3955762
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with an offer made in relation to a complaint about the quality of a car 
supplied under a hire purchase agreement. This was provided by Black Horse Limited 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Black Horse).
What happened
In October 2018, Mr T acquired a new car funded in part with a hire purchase agreement 
taken with Black Horse. The cash price of the car was £72,441. Mr T paid a cash deposit of 
£28,000 and part exchanged a car for £28,000. A manufacturers deposit contribution was 
added for £1,000. This meant the amount of credit was £15,341, taken over 48 months with 
repayments of £358.50 per month.
Shortly after getting the car Mr T says he noticed issues with it. Further issues appeared 
over the coming months. Black Horse explained there were faults with the following areas:
Dog guard
Media centre
Spare wheel
Automatic stopping
Tailgate
Sat nav
Reversing aids
Radio
Side step
Cruise control
Speed limit recognition system
Lane assist
Memory seats
Touch screen
Adaptive headlights
Various repairs were attempted on the car but several issues persisted. Mr T says he was 
without the car in total for around three months, and was provided smaller courtesy cars than 
the one he was paying for.
Mr T complained to Black Horse and it issued its final response in December 2021. In 
summary, it accepted the car had various problems and wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. As repairs had been attempted, it agreed to allow Mr T to reject the car. It 
offered to take the car back and to pay Mr T £69,412.47. This was made up of:
£28,000 cash deposit
£28,000 part exchange deposit
£6,423 of monthly payments made*
£300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
£8,361.84 made up of 8% simple interest on the cash deposit and monthly payments
A reduction of £1,672.37 tax on the interest payment
*Black Horse explained it was retaining £7,200 from the total of £13,623 paid towards the 
agreement for the usage of the car. It said this was calculated by charging £0.45 a mile for 
16,000 miles.
Mr T was unhappy with this offer and contacted Black Horse about it. He said 8% simple 
interest should also be added to the amount from the part exchange deposit. Black Horse 
responded and said it would only pay this on the cash amount.
The car was collected and Mr T confirmed Black Horse transferred him £71,439.97 in 
February 2022. Presumably, this higher amount was paid due to an additional payment 
being made and/or an interest recalculation. Mr T remained unhappy with this and brought 
the complaint to our service.
Black Horse explained to our service that it didnt pay out the 8% interest on the part 
exchange deposit as it said Mr T had no financial benefit of his previous car being in his 
possession. So it said he was not out of pocket by part exchanging it.
Mr T said, in summary, that effectively the part exchange was a cash deposit. He said he 
couldve sold the car to a third party, then used these funds towards the agreement.
Our investigator issued an opinion and said she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that she thought Mr Ts point that the 8% shouldve been added if he 
sold the car to a third party and then used these funds was right, but this isnt what 
happened. So, she didnt think Black Horse had done anything wrong.
Mr T remained unhappy. He said, in summary, that he sold the car to the dealer, not to Black 
Horse. He said had there been a delay in the delivery of the new car, he couldve got a cash 
refund from the dealer. And he said as Black Horse had refunded him the part exchange 
value, it must view it as a cash deposit.
I sent Mr T and Black Horse a provisional decision on 12 January 2023. My findings from 
this decision were as follows:
Mr T complains about a car, and the subsequent offer made in relation to it, supplied to him 
under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this as a 
lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ts complaint about Black 
Horse.
All parties are agreed in this case that the car supplied to Mr T wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
And the car has now been rejected. As Black Horse and Mr T accept what happened, I dont 
need to make any findings about the quality of the car here.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the offer Black Horse has made and paid out to 
put things right is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint.Ive firstly considered the issue around the 8% interest being applied to the cash deposit, but 
not to the part exchange value.
When considering whats fair and reasonable to put things right, broadly, it would seem fair 
for Mr T to be put back in the position he wouldve been in had nothing gone wrong. Here, 
this would mean being put back in the position he wouldve been in had he not acquired this 
car.
I think it would be helpful to explain briefly when Id expect to see 8% simple interest being 
applied. In general terms, Id expect to see this being paid to Mr T for any time he was 
deprived of money and didnt have use of it because of what went wrong. In relation to the 
cash deposit, Mr T was deprived of the use of these funds when he paid this towards the 
agreement for a car which was of unsatisfactory quality. So, it seems reasonable 8% interest 
had been added here.
Black Horse have made the argument that Mr T wasnt deprived of funds when he part 
exchanged his car as he had no financial benefit from it. But, I dont agree here. I need to 
consider what actually happened when Mr T part exchanged his car. 
I agree with the point Mr T made about the fact that the car was sold to the dealer, not to 
Black Horse. When Mr T part exchanged his car, he essentially sold the car to the dealer for 
cash. Rather than paying these funds to Mr T, the dealer paid the funds to Black Horse. So, 
this means I dont agree with Black Horses argument that this should be treated differently 
to the cash deposit in terms of paying interest on it.
It follows all of this that, in principle, I agree with Mr T that it initially seems reasonable that 
Black Horse should pay 8% interest on a part exchange value. But, this doesnt tell the 
whole story here. I need to consider the overall offer it made and if Black Horse needs to 
take any further action.
As I explained above, I need to consider putting Mr T back in the position he wouldve been 
in had he not entered into the contract. In real terms, this isnt possible here, as this would 
involve him getting back the original car he part exchanged, which I can presume has since 
been sold. So, I need to think about whether hes received redress to put him as close to this 
position as possible.
While I wouldve used a different method to calculate the amount, I do agree with Black 
Horse that its fair and reasonable for Mr T to pay towards the use of the car. I say this as 
Mr T drove a brand new car worth over £70,000  albeit one with faults - or a courtesy car, 
over a period of three years and around 16,000 miles.
Ive thought about what Mr T received back from Black Horse and what he paid towards the 
agreement. In total, Mr T received £71,439.97 from Black Horse.
Over the course of the agreement, Mr T paid a total of £56,000 as a deposit and I believe he 
wouldve paid 39 repayments of £358.50, totalling £13,981.50. This means Mr T paid Black 
Horse a total of £69,981.50. So, while part of the amount Black Horse paid Mr T was to 
compensate him for the loss of use of his cash deposit, this still means he is just under 
£1,460 better off than if he didnt enter into the agreement. And, this means hes had free 
use of the car for over three years.
Ive also considered that the cash price of the car, taking off the manufacturers deposit 
contribution, was £71,441. Mr T received just over £1 less than this back from Black Horse 
after over three years using the car.I do need to consider that, as I previously explained, Black Horse hasnt compensated Mr T 
to reflect the fact he was deprived of £28,000 from the part exchange value. But I also need 
to consider that, while Black Horse retained some payments for usage, in cash terms, hes 
better off than he wouldve been had he not acquired the car.
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable here, Im satisfied Mr T has been put back into a 
fair position thinking about all of the circumstances of the complaint. While in principle I 
agree it initially seems reasonable that he should be compensated for being deprived of the 
use of the part exchange funds, in real terms Im satisfied this is made up for by the usage of 
the car he had.
It follows that I dont think Black Horse needs to take any further action.
I gave both parties four weeks to provide anything further for me to consider.
Black Horse didnt come back with any further comments or evidence.
Mr T responded and made various points for me to consider. He said, in summary, that he 
didnt believe the missing interest payment was made up for by the use of the car. He said 
he didnt have use of the car for the full three years, as he didnt use it when the country was 
locked down due to COVID-19 and it was in for repair for around three months. He also said 
the round trip to the dealer was around 30 miles and he had to drive the car to obtain 
evidence to provide to the dealer. Mr T said he estimated he used the car for 3,000 miles for 
this.
Mr T also said he paid Black Horse an additional £358.50, had paid £1,017 for an extended 
warranty and because of his financial situation had also been charged a further £1,672.37. 
So, he said it wasnt fair to conclude he was better off than if he had not acquired the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr T said in response to my provisional decision. There is 
something of a lack of evidence to back up some of what hes said  such as using the car 
for 3,000 miles for trips to the dealer and for gathering evidence. I do think this mileage 
seems somewhat high. I say this as this would be the equivalent of 100 round trips to the 
dealer. Its also worth pointing out I think the usage of the car during lockdown would likely 
have remained the same had it been of satisfactory quality or not.
That being said, even if I take everything Mr T has said at face value, I still dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I say this as, even taking the additional costs Mr T mentioned 
into account, in real terms he still wouldve paid a very minimal amount for the usage of the 
car over three years considering its value  even if this was for 13,000 miles rather than 
16,000.
Having reconsidered everything again, including all of the further comments from Mr T, I still 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman