DRN-2252175
The complaint
Miss P says Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans by Provident. A summary of the 
borrowing, based on information Provident provided us can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment 
datenumber of 
instalments 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment 
for each loan
1 £200.00 04/11/2016 18/01/2017 13 £22.00
2 £500.00 13/01/2017 outstanding 52 £18.00
3 £600.00 10/03/2017 outstanding 52 £21.60
  
Where there are overlapping loans the cost per week to Miss P will be increased. 
Miss P appears to have had some problems repaying her final two loans and it seems that 
these loans have been transferred to collections and an outstanding balance remains. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. She thought Provident had carried out 
proportionate checks before the first two loans were approved, and this led her to conclude 
that Provident hadnt made an error in approving these loans. 
However, the adjudicator did think further checks were needed to be carried out before the 
third loan was approved. But, the adjudicator wasnt able to say that Provident had done 
something wrong because she didnt know what Provident may have seen, had it carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Provident didnt respond to the adjudicators view. Miss P disagreed and said in summary;
no checks were carried out by Provident for loans 2 and 3 and
the agent encouraged her to take out larger loans. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include (but are not limited to):
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complain and like the adjudicator, based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think Provident needs to pay compensation to Miss P. 
Provident says it agreed to Miss Ps application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. And it looks like, some of the information about her income was 
also verified. Provident has also provided us with the credit check results from the final loan 
Miss P was granted. 
For loans one and two I think the checks Provident carried out went far enough. It gathered 
information about her income (which appears to have come from some salary, maintenance 
and tax credits). And for loan one Miss P declared outgoings of £478 and for loan two £547. 
Based on the repayment amounts Miss P was committed to making, Provident wouldve 
thought that Miss P would be in a position to afford these loans.
I accept that Miss Ps actual financial circumstances were maybe not reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Provident obtained. And Miss Ps actual 
financial position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank 
statements  had been obtained. But Provident could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss P  in terms of only 
providing her with two loans. I dont think it had reached the stage where there was a greater 
risk of these loans being unsustainable for Miss P. In these circumstances, I dont think 
Provident needed to take further steps to verify the information she had provided. 
At the time of loan 3, Miss P again declared her income and outgoings. A credit check was 
also carried out, Ive taken a look at the results that Provident has provided and there isnt 
anything in those results, which in my view wouldve even led Provident to decline the 
application or to have prompted it to carry out further, more in-depth checks.  
But in saying that, for loan 3 I think Provident checks needed to go further. This was now the 
third loan in quick succession, and loan two was still outstanding at the time, meaning 
Miss Ps weekly commitment to Provident was £39.60 per week. Importantly, Miss P was 
expected to continue to make these repayments for an additional 12 months having already 
been indebted to Provident for four months.
So, I think for the third loan the checks Provident needed to go further, it ought to, by now 
have started to verify what Miss P was telling it about her financial circumstance. Provident 
couldve verified her information a number of ways, it couldve asked for copies of her bank 
statements or it couldve asked for copies of her credit file and / or bills. 
Even though I think Provident checks needed to go further, that doesnt mean Im able to 
uphold Miss Ps complaint. Miss P hasnt provided us with any supporting documents to 
show us what her actual financial position was at the time, or what Provident may have 
found out, if it had carried out further checks. This means Im not able to say Provident made 
an error in approving this loan because I dont know what Provident may have seen had it 
carried out proportionate checks. 
I am therefore not upholding Miss Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Miss P. But I hope that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Is also seems that there are outstanding balances due for the final two loans and Id remind 
Provident of its obligation to treat Miss P fairly when trying to agree a way forward for this 
money to be repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman