DRN-4049156
The complaint
Mr J complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his claim for 
cover under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy to pursue negligence claims against 
his union and lawyers in relation to an employment dispute.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
Mr J was involved in a dispute with his employers and their training partners (the employer). 
In around 2017 he approached his union for help, and they appointed solicitors to act for him 
in bringing a legal claim against the employer. A barrister represented Mr J at the final 
hearing in January 2021. When judgment was issued a few months later, he found out his 
claim had failed on all issues. 
Mr J was unhappy with the service and legal advice hed received from the union and 
lawyers (the advisers). He said, in summary, the union provided a sub-standard firm of 
solicitors, the solicitors didnt appoint a suitable lawyer to work on his case, the solicitors 
failed to set out the claims properly and the barrister made several mistakes, most notably in 
failing to make an oral closing argument at the final hearing. 
In July 2021 Mr J made a claim on his LEI policy with RSA to cover his costs of taking legal 
action against the advisers. RSA initially declined the claim in full. They understood the final 
hearing in Mr Js employment case had taken place in January 2020. And they said his claim 
fell within a policy exclusion since the event giving rise to the claim had happened before the 
policy started. 
Mr J clarified that the final hearing had happened in January 2021. RSA said the claims 
against the union and solicitors still fell within the exclusion. And although they accepted the 
barrister had only been involved in relation to the January 2021 final hearing, the claim was 
excluded since it had arisen less than 90 days after the insurance first started. 
RSA said theyd consider the claim against the barrister if Mr J could provide evidence of a 
pre-existing policy in place immediately before the RSA policy began. But even if he could, 
hed need to go through any complaints process first. And they had concerns about the 
prospects of the claim succeeding and whether it was proportionate to pursue.
Mr J was unhappy with RSAs responses and complained. When they didnt uphold his 
complaint he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator felt RSA had 
considered Mr Js claim and applied the exclusions theyd relied on fairly and reasonably. 
Since Mr J didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to review afresh.
I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Js employment difficulties and the concerns hes had about legal 
advice he was given in relation to that. I can understand hes had a stressful time. Ive 
considered his complaint about RSAs decision on policy cover carefully. Ive come to a 
partly different outcome than our investigator, as Ill explain. Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give the parties the chance to provide further information and comments before I 
come to a final decision. 
Im aware that in around September 2021 Mr J made a claim on the policy he and his wife 
had had with other LEI insurers between 22 November 2017 and 21 November 2018. (Ill call 
them Insurer 1). Insurer 1 declined the claim on the basis the policy was a claims made 
policy and Mr J had made his claim outside the policy period. And they suggested he 
approach RSA as his current LEI was with them. I can understand Mr J was unhappy neither 
insurer accepted his claim. 
We sometimes think its fair for one or other of a customers insurers to meet a claim where 
the customer can show theyve had continuous cover over the relevant period - subject to 
the relevant policy terms and conditions. Ive seen evidence Mr J had LEI cover immediately 
before he and his wife took out cover with Insurer 1. Hes said he had cover between 2018 
and 2020 but hasnt provided full details of that insurance. And the cover Mr J took out with 
RSA didnt start until the second week of December 2020. Since the policy with Insurer 1 ran 
from November to November, that suggests theres been a break in cover. So, in the 
circumstances of this case, I think its fair to consider the RSA policy in isolation. 
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. Mr J made his claim on the RSA policy in July 2021. RSA considered it, 
taking into account information they asked for from Mr Js broker and Mr J himself. They 
listened to what Mr J said in early October after they and Insurer 1 had declined his claims in 
September. They looked at further information he provided and came to a decision later that 
month. I think RSA came to a decision on policy cover within a reasonable period of time. 
So, Ill go on to consider if it was fair and reasonable for them to decline the claim. The 
starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA rightly considered Mr Js claim under the Consumer Disputes section of the LEI 
policy which said:
What is Covered?
Costs to pursue or defend a civil legal action arising out of a contract you have 
entered into for:
a) Obtaining services
What is excluded? 
3. Any dispute that arises less than 90 days after the insurance first started, unless 
the dispute is to do with a contract that started after you took out the insurance or 
you had an equivalent cover immediately prior to the inception of this policy without a 
break in cover.
The general policy exclusions included:
1. Costs incurred:a. In respect of any event where the time of occurrence commenced 
prior to the commencement of this insurance.
b. Where you are aware of a circumstance that may give rise to a claim 
when purchasing this insurance

2. Any claim if [RSA] consider it is unlikely a favourable settlement will be 
obtained, or where the likely settlement is disproportionate compared with the 
time and costs incurred.

5. Any costs that could have been recovered under any other insurance or 
from a Trade Union, public body or employer.
Time of occurrence meant the date upon which the event first occurred.
Event meant The incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim 
under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all 
causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
Mr J says he didnt know until June 2021 that he had claims against the advisers. But the 
policy excluded cover for any event which happened before the policy began whether he 
was aware of it or not. It is clear about that.
From what Ive seen, Mr J first issued claims against the employer in early December 2017 
and the latest claim was issued in early January 2020. Mr J was unhappy with the 
appointment of the solicitors by the union from the beginning. Hed complained about the 
level of service the union and the solicitors had provided by July/August 2018. In April 2020 
following a court hearing, Mr J raised concerns about who had had access to his medical 
information and about the handling and outcome of the hearing. 
In July 2021 Mr J told his union he was surprised by the outcome of the final hearing. He 
said hed thought previously the work being carried out was of a poor standard. The outcome 
had confirmed his view since he felt his claims were clear cut. Mr J alleged documents in the 
court bundle had been badly prepared; the barrister failed to prepare his closing oral 
remarks properly; and hed lost his case as a result.
When Mr J was looking for solicitors to act in a claim against the advisers he mentioned 
thered been numerous mistakes by the solicitors and barrister including mistakes by the 
solicitors in drafting his claim. And the panel solicitors responded to several points when they 
addressed Mr Js complaint, including that hed had several lawyers handling his claim, one 
of them had been unprofessional and many mistakes had been made in setting out his 
claims.
I think its clear the final hearing and preparations leading up to it were part of a series of 
events involving the union and panel solicitors that Mr J was unhappy with, and which had 
started before the policy began. So, his claim fell within the exclusion Ive set out above. 
Similar exclusions are often found in LEI policies, and we dont generally consider them to 
be unfair. I dont think RSA were unreasonable to rely on the exclusion in the circumstances 
of this case.
RSA accepted the barristers only involvement was in relation to the final hearing in January 
2021. They said Mr Js claim against him was excluded since the dispute arose within the 
first 90 days of the policy. But theyd consider the claim if Mr J could show hed had 
equivalent cover immediately prior to the policy starting. Ive mentioned Mr J hasnt shown 
that. But I think RSA have overlooked that cover is not excluded if the dispute is to do with a 
contract which started after [Mr J] took out the insurance.
If, as appears, the barrister wasnt engaged until January 2021, the 90-day exclusion doesnt 
apply. Whilst RSA could ask Mr J for more information about when the barrister became 
involved, on the face of it the policy provides cover for the costs of pursuing a claim against 
the barrister, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA say Mr J has to exhaust any complaints procedure against the barrister before the 
policy will respond. They rely on the following policy wording:
Policy Conditions

Due Care
You must take due care to prevent incidents that may give rise to a claim and to 
minimise the amount payable by us;
and
Claims decision

After receiving your claim or during the course of it we may find:

2. There is a more suitable course of action.

In these circumstances, we may not continue to support your claim and will tell you 
why in writing.
The incident giving rise to the claim here is the alleged negligence on the part of the barrister 
in dealing with Mr Js legal case against the employer. Im not aware of any action Mr J could 
have taken to prevent that. A complaint after the incident wouldnt have prevented it from 
happening.
It's possible a complaint against the barrister could lead to Mr J recovering his alleged losses 
or some sort of compensation. But any outcome is uncertain. And I dont think it would be 
fair for RSA to require Mr J to complain to the barrister before they consider his claim under 
the policy further. RSA have wrongly applied the exclusion to decline his claim and caused 
delay. A complaint against the barrister would prolong things. So, even if the wording RSA 
rely on means they can require Mr J to exhaust any complaints process against the barrister 
first, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for them to do so in the circumstances.
There are conditions in the policy that Mr Js claim should have reasonable prospects of 
success and that the time and costs involved are proportionate for cover to be provided. 
RSA have noted their concerns about whether those conditions are met. But Im not aware 
theyve reached a decision. Theyve said they would ordinarily get solicitors advice. And 
wed think it was fair for them to do so before coming to a decision.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think RSA should consider Mr Js claim under the policy for 
cover to pursue a claim against the barrister only. Any claim will be subject to any further 
information RSA reasonably require Mr J to provide about when the barrister was instructed 
and the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Developments 
Mr J agreed with my provisional decision subject to RSA providing no further evidence.RSA raised a new issue. They acknowledged the 90-day exclusion to the Consumer 
Disputes section of the policy wouldnt apply where a contract was entered into during that 
period. But they said the contract had to be one which Mr J had agreed to. From the 
available information it seemed Mr J had approached his union, they had appointed solicitors 
and the solicitors had appointed the barrister. They said the policy wouldnt apply if Mr J 
couldnt show there was a direct contractual relationship between him and the barrister.
RSA acknowledged they hadnt discussed this issue with Mr J. They proposed agreeing to 
my provisional decision on the basis they reassess the claim against the barrister. That 
reassessment would, as I understand it, include not only when the barrister was appointed, 
but also whether Mr J had a direct contractual relationship with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr Js acceptance of my provisional decision was on the basis RSA didnt provide 
any further evidence, I havent changed my mind about the outcome of his complaint, so 
theres no reason not to issue a final decision.
Ive thought carefully about the new point RSA have raised.
I dont think the Consumer Disputes section of the policy requires Mr J to have a direct 
contractual relationship with the barrister for cover to apply. It refers only to civil legal action 
arising out of [my emphasis] a contract you have entered into. I think it would 
reasonably extend to a contract entered into with a third party by another person on Mr Js 
behalf in the circumstances that arose here.
Im mindful there could be some nuanced legal arguments about the nature of Mr Js 
relationships with the advisers and whether Mr J had a contractual relationship with the 
barrister since the solicitors appointed him. But even if he didnt have a contract with the 
barrister, I dont think that matters.
The solicitors were advising Mr J and taking his instructions. So, its reasonable to think he 
had a contract with them and that his dispute arises out of that contract, even if his complaint 
is about the barristers work. Since the exclusion doesnt apply where theres a dispute that 
is to do with a [my emphasis] contract which started after [Mr J] took out the insurance. 
cover extends, arguably, to contracts Mr J wasnt party to, provided 
the dispute can be traced back to a contract he did enter into as it can be here and 
theres a direct relationship between them; and
the contract was entered into after the policy began.
Given theres room for argument about the policy wording, it would be fair, in the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint, to read the policy in his favour. I think its fair to say the 
Consumer Disputes section provides cover in principle and RSA should cover the claim if the 
contract with the barrister was entered into after the policy began.
Bearing the above in mind, I see no reason to change my provisional decision to uphold     
Mr Js complaint in part for the reasons Ive already set out.
Putting things rightRSA should consider Mr Js claim under the policy for cover to pursue a claim against his 
barrister subject to any further information they reasonably require Mr J to provide about 
when the barrister was instructed and the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and direct Royal and Sun Alliance Limited to consider Mr Js 
claim under the policy for LEI cover to pursue a claim against his barrister subject to any 
further information Royal and Sun Alliance Limited reasonably require Mr J to provide about 
when the barrister was instructed and subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.   
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman