DRN-3564758
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCFL) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr D is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr D.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr D with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£304,880.99. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose 
letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move 
to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
Mr D approached DCFL in late October 2017 for advice about his BSPS pension.
DCFL sent Mr D a fact-finding document and asked him to complete this prior to its initial 
meeting with him. This was then discussed at the initial meeting held between DCFL and 
Mr D. The completed fact find noted that Mr D was 41, in good health unmarried but co-
habiting with his partner and had two dependent children. He owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage of approximately £50,000 which was due to be repaid before he 
reached retirement. His income was recorded as exceeding his outgoings comfortably each 
month. 
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr D was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. And he and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this of 16% of his salary. That pension arrangement had only recently begun 
and the BSPS benefits made up the significant majority of his retirement provisions at that 
time.
Mr D said he was concerned about the security of his pension and didnt trust his employer 
to manage it any longer. It was also recorded that he was interested in more flexible death 
benefits to pass the pension to his children, he hoped to potentially retire around age 59/60 
and hoped to grow his fund on a low / medium risk basis.
DCFL says, at that meeting the advantages and disadvantages of the PPF, the BSPS2 and 
transferring to a personal pension were discussed. And DCFL also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious to moderate. 
DCFL says Mr D contacted it on 23 November 2017 to arrange a further meeting as he 
wanted to transfer his pension.
A meeting then took place on 29 November 2017. I understand at that meeting a 
recommendation was given by DCFL that Mr D transfer his pension benefits to a SIPP.
Documents were signed during that meeting to enable the transfer to take place including an 
application form for the new provider and discharge forms required by the trustees of the 
BSPS. DCFL also wrote to the trustees of the BSPS on the same day, saying it had provided 
Mr D with regulated advice.
A written summary of the advice given by DCFL was not produced until 6 December 2017  
after the application had been submitted. The suitability report said the reasons for DCFLs 
recommendation were that Mr D did not trust his employer to manage the pension, wanted 
to avoid going into the PPF and felt the BSPS2 was not favourable. It said he felt the 
penalties imposed for early retirement by the BSPS2 and PPF were too high and he was 
interested in retiring at age 60. It was noted though, due to how long it would be until Mr D 
retired, he didnt know what his income requirements in retirement would be. 
DCFL said Mr D wanted control over his pension, was concerned about the lack of flexibility 
and the potential for benefits to be cut further by the BSPS and was also interested in 
potentially accessing tax-free cash (TFC), when he reached the age at which he was 
allowed to, but not immediately taking an income  so wanted flexibility in how his benefits 
could be drawn. And the inflexible death benefits of the existing scheme concerned him. 
Based on this it recommended transferring as it felt this best met his objectives, addressed 
his concerns and his attitude to risk meant he had the capacity to accept the risks involved. 
DCFL would also provide ongoing servicing of the pension, at a cost.
The transfer went ahead in line with DCFLs recommendation in March 2018. DCFL provided 
ongoing servicing until 2021.
Mr D complained in 2021 to DCFL. He said the advice was unsuitable and he thought a 
transfer should not have been recommended because the SIPP was highly unlikely to match 
the guaranteed benefits that he couldve received through the BSPS2.
DCFL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said transferring had achieved his objectives of 
control of his pension, which he wanted because of a distrust of his employer, avoiding 
actuarial reductions for retiring early and achieving alternate death benefits better suited to 
his situation. It also said Mr D had been keen to achieve growth in his pension and that the 
recommended portfolio, which was in line with his attitude to risk, had done that, at a rate 
greater than the critical yield or the revaluations that wouldve been provided through the 
BSPS2 or PPF. So, it felt the advice to transfer was suitable.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and required 
DCFL to pay compensation and £200 for the distress caused. He didnt think a transfer was 
in Mr Ds best interests or that he was likely to be better off as a result. And given Mr Ds 
retirement income needs were unknown, he didnt think giving up a guaranteed, escalating 
pension was suitable. He also didnt feel Mr D had a genuine need for flexibility at the time of 
the advice, that the alternate death benefits justified the transfer or that DCFL did enough to 
address Mr Ds concerns about the ongoing management of the DB scheme. Overall, he felt 
Mr D did not need to transfer out of his scheme when he did and should have been advised 
join the BSPS2.DCFL disagreed. It said the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed at the time and that to say 
this shouldve been recommended is unreasonable. DCFL said it doesnt think the critical 
yield and whether this was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at 
suitability. It also said it was unfair to say it shouldve had regard for discount rates published 
by our service as it wasnt required to do so. If the critical yield was considered it said the 
only relevant comparison would be to the PPF. But it didnt think critical yields were relevant 
as Mr D didnt intend to purchase an annuity. In any event it said even if growth achieved 
through transferring meant the benefits of the new pension were the same as, or even 
slightly less than the DB scheme, the advice would still have been suitable as it provided 
flexibility  which was one of Mr Ds key objectives. And the past performance and what had 
happened since the advice, which it says shouldnt be disregarded, showed that this level of 
growth was achievable. Overall DCFL still felt that the recommendation to transfer was 
suitable as it allowed Mr D to achieve his goals and avoid moving to the PPF - which he had 
been clear about. DCFL also argued it was not responsible for any losses since it had 
stopped providing ongoing servicing.
Mr Ds representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings. But they said they didnt 
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account 
for income tax was fair as this didnt account for charges Mr D has incurred through the 
SIPP.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DCFL has said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously 
undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and didnt 
highlight any concerns. It has therefore questioned how our service can come to a different 
conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role is different to that of the FCA. 
It is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint, not a business processes and 
practices as a whole, and decide what we consider is fair and reasonable. That is what Ive 
done here. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
DCFL has strongly argued that the critical yield should not be a substantive consideration 
when looking at whether advice was suitable. 
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the pension holders retirement  by way 
of an income. How the income that the pension holder could expect to receive after 
transferring compared to the guaranteed benefits they were due under their existing 
arrangements is, in my view, an important consideration as to whether they would be better 
off by transferring. Which in turn is important when determining if a transfer was in the 
pension holders best interests. And indeed, the FCA required such a comparison to be 
undertaken and shared with the pension holder  COBS 19.1.2  and for a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report, providing analysis of this, to be conducted.
A critical yield, which is usually calculated when compiling a TVAS, is an estimate of the 
growth rate required of a new pension to allow the pension holder to purchase equivalent 
benefits to those they were guaranteed under their existing arrangements. So, I think this is 
an important indicator of whether someone would be better off by transferring. Whether a 
transfer is financially viable  likely to result in the pension holder being better off or not in 
terms of retirement income  is not the only consideration when looking at whether advice 
was suitable. And it isnt the only thing Ive thought about here. But I still think it, and in turn 
the critical yield and whether this was achievable, are relevant and important considerations. 
DCFL has said that Mr D didnt intend to purchase an annuity. And that is a further reason 
the critical yield is of little relevance here. But at the time of the advice Mr D was 41. So, it 
was over 13 years until he could take any of his pension benefits. The suitability report also 
noted that Mr Ds income requirements in retirement were unknown  because of how long it 
was until he was due to retire. I think this means it was too early for Mr D to have made a 
definitive decision or be able to say with any certainty that he wouldnt want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement. So, I dont agree that the critical yields werent relevant.
DCFL has also said that the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead, and this wasnt a genuine 
option at the time. So, only the critical yields for the PPF are relevant here. But I think DCFL 
is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been 
ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time Mr D took advice. Mr D had received his 
time to choose pack  with joining the new scheme one of the options. And details of the 
scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the 
BSPS but the annual increases wouldve been lower. So, I think the relevant parties, not 
least the trustees, were confident at that point that it would go ahead. I also note that, in one 
of the TVAS reports that DCFL instructed, comparisons were made to the estimated benefits under the BSPS2 (with the other providing a comparison to the BSPS, even though 
remaining in that scheme, as it was, wasnt an option). And the potential benefits under the 
BSPS2 were mentioned in the suitability report. 
With all of this in mind, I think a comparison to the benefits the BSPS2 was likely to provide 
was a relevant consideration.
The TVAS report looking at the potential benefits under the BSPS2 said that the critical yield 
if Mr D took a full pension at age 65 was 4.99%. It also indicated hed need a fund totalling 
£684,132.93 at age 65 to purchase an annuity matching the benefits available under the 
BSPS2 at that time  so his CETV would need to more than double in size. And if he was to 
retire at age 60, the critical yield to match a full pension under the BSPS2 at that point was 
5.59%, and hed need a fund of £641,192.93. No figures were calculated for what would be 
required if Mr D elected to take TFC and a reduced pension at either age.
Critical yield figures were also calculated for the growth that would be required to match the 
benefits Mr D would be due under the PPF at ages 60 and 65. If Mr D took a full pension at 
age 65 under the PPF, the critical yield was said to be 4.17%. Or if taking TFC and a 
reduced pension, 3.93%. To match the full pension under the PPF at age 60 the critical yield 
was 4.77%. And for the reduced pension and taking TFC at that age, the critical yield was 
4.52%.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website.
DCFL says there was no requirement for it to have regard for the discount rate. But I think it 
is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, as Ive mentioned 
already, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a 
DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. 
The discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And 
businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor.
Mr D was 41 at the time of the advice. It has been suggested he wanted to retire at age 60. 
And, as Ive said, the TVAS report looked at the scenarios of retiring at age 60 and 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.6% per year for 23 years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr D retired at age 
65). For 18 years to retirement, the case if he retired at 60, the discount rate was 4.4%. Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Contrary to what DCFL 
has said, I think there would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him 
through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme 
 essentially introducing significant additional risk to achieve only at best the same position. 
But here, I think Mr D was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value as a result of transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk than those he wouldve 
been guaranteed under the BSPS2. And in respect of the PPF it also appears he was 
unlikely to improve on the guaranteed benefits hed have been due.
DCFL has said the past performance of the recommended fund and the performance 
between the transfer being completed and the complaint show that this was achievable. And 
it says this shouldnt be discounted.  But past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best 
interests. DCFL has said it indicated in the suitability report that it felt the critical yield was 
quite high and was unlikely to be achieved. But Mr D accepted the risks involved and there 
were other considerations that meant the transfer was suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below, but I would just say that highlighting a risk does 
not mean that the advice that follows is suitable. 
Flexibility 
DCFL says Mr D was interested in retiring before the normal retirement date of the DB 
scheme  and was unhappy with idea of an actuarial reduction being applied if he did so. It 
also said he wanted the flexibility to be able to take TFC but not have to immediately take an 
income. And he wanted the ability to vary the income he took from these benefits in 
retirement.
I dont doubt that most consumers, if asked, would be interested in retiring early. But again, 
Mr D was 41 at the point of the advice  still a significant time away from being able to take 
retirement benefits. As Ive said, the suitability report noted his income needs in retirement 
were also unknown. So, while Mr D may have been interested in taking early retirement, on 
balance I dont think his plans around this were concrete at the time.
Likewise, I dont think being able to access TFC was a need at the point of the advice. There 
was no reason noted for requiring access to a lump sum. Mr Ds mortgage  which seems to 
have been his only major debt at the point of the advice  was due to be repaid before he 
couldve accessed pension benefits. So again, when asked, Mr D mightve indicted he had 
thought about taking a lump sum and that this may be of interest. But I dont think this had 
been decided.
DCFL has said that Mr D was not willing to accept a reduction in his pension for retiring early 
 and an actuarial reduction wouldve been applied by the BSPS2 or the PPF if he took his 
benefits at age 60. The TVAS report estimated that if Mr D took a full pension with no TFC 
under the BSPS2 at age 65 his starting pension would be £19,362 per year. At age 60 his 
starting pension would be £14,906. Both would continue to escalate while in payment. Under 
the PPF his starting pension, without TFC, at age 65 was estimated to be £17,569 and at 
age 60 would be £14,226.
I dont doubt the idea of potentially receiving less annually was not something Mr D would be 
happy about. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid 
for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from 
age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking an income 
at age 60 Mr D wouldve been receiving his pension for five years longer. It is a trade-off, 
rather than a penalty. And I think if this had been made clearer to Mr D, he may well have 
been less concerned than DCFL has suggested.Likewise, while taking benefits flexibly under a personal pension would allow Mr D to decide 
the level of his income without penalty the amount he could take was entirely dependent on 
the sum available under the pension plan. And what he took would deplete the plan  
potentially leaving him with less than he might need later. Whereas the DB scheme benefits, 
regardless of which point they started, were guaranteed for life.
Even if though Mr D had still been unhappy with the idea of accepting a reduction in his 
guaranteed pension, I dont think that means he needed to transfer when he did. 
Mr Ds income requirements in retirement were unknown. But by the time he retired he was 
scheduled to be mortgage free so his outgoings wouldve been reduced. And its not 
unreasonable, in my view, to expect his requirements were likely to be lower than his salary 
at the time of advice. Mr D was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme 
his employer had put in place after the BSPS had closed. And, although he was unhappy 
with how his employer had handled the BSPS, there was no indication he intended to 
change employer prior to retirement.
It was over 18 years until he was apparently considering retirement. He and his employers 
contributions to this new scheme were equivalent to 16% of his salary. The fact find said that 
this equated to roughly £200 per month from Mr D and £400 from his employer. But it also 
said that the annual contributions were around £6,000. Even using the lower of these two 
though  and before even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr D 
increasing his contributions  by age 60 this fund wouldve been almost £110,000. And this 
fund couldve potentially been used flexibly from age 60, to meet Mr Ds initial needs, 
allowing him to take the DB scheme benefits at age 65 if he so chose  and not incur an 
actuarial reduction. Or they couldve been taken together if Mr Ds concerns about the 
actuarial reduction had been allayed by the fact hed have been receiving his pension for 
longer. And the amount he took from the DC scheme couldve been varied to meet his needs 
and reduced once he began to receive the state pension.
Taking all of this into account, given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think 
Mr Ds plans or needs were known and certainly were not finalised. So, I dont think he had a 
need for flexibility at the time of the advice.  And I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr D later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand that this wouldve been allowed under 
BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
DCFL says Mr D wanted alternative death benefits. He and his partner were not married, so 
she would not have benefited from the spouses pension the DB scheme provided. And it 
says he was unhappy with the rigid nature of the death benefits provided by the DB scheme 
and the idea of leaving his fund as a lump sum to his partner and children appealed to him.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. Because a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
Mr D was not married at the time of the advice, so his partner may not have qualified for a 
spouses pension under the PPF or the BSPS2. But they were still young and couldve later 
gotten married. In which case the spouses pension  a guaranteed amount payable for life which escalated  couldve been very useful if Mr D predeceased his partner. It doesnt 
appear that DCFL enquired about whether this may happen but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that it had been ruled out. The BSPS2 and PPF both would also have provided 
childrens pensions until they reached adulthood / left full time education. And again, this 
guaranteed amount could have proved useful, should it have been required.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr D drew in his lifetime. Mr D was 
recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to live 
until at least his average life expectancy. And given the implication was that Mr D would 
draw a pension without penalty from age 60 and only scale back when he began to receive 
his state pension, it appears likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time 
Mr D reached his average life expectancy. So, the pension may not have provided the 
legacy that Mr D may have thought it would.
The fact find also recorded that Mr D had death in service benefits from his current 
employer, which appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy 
to his estate. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also provided 
alternative forms of death benefit to his DB schemes. And, if Mr D didnt think these were 
enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think life 
insurance shouldve been considered. But I cant see that this was discussed.
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified introducing significant additional risk when in all likelihood Mr Ds pension 
benefits were unlikely to improve. And I dont think that insurance was properly explored as 
an alternative.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ds desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr D was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, DCFL continued to manage his 
SIPP on his behalf after the transfer. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for 
Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. Its clear that Mr D, 
like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His employer had 
been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have been 
a general mistrust and lack of optimism regarding the likelihood of a solution. I also dont 
doubt Mr D was worried his pension would end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and this was why he said he preferred to have control over his pension 
fund. Its also quite possible that Mr D was also leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was DCFLs obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Mr Ds concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL shouldve 
reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He didnt have firm retirement plans. But, as Ive explained, it appears likely his other provisions, 
in conjunction with the pension payable under the PPF, wouldve provided what he needed 
in retirement. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have 
provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment 
risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I dont think he 
was likely to be better off by transferring, such that taking this risk was in his interests. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to DCFL recommending Mr D transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
DCFL recommended that Mr D invest his SIPP in a particular way. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr D should, in my view, have been advised not to transfer so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. DCFL has said that it shouldnt be 
responsible for any losses stemming from those investments after it ceased managing the 
SIPP on Mr Ds behalf. But again, the investments would not have arisen at all were it not for 
DCFLs advice. So, I dont agree that its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice 
ceased when it ended its agreement with Mr D.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But DCFL wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
understand Mr Ds circumstances, separate his potential concerns stemming from the 
ongoing uncertainty and unfinalized potential plans from his genuine needs and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring, 
I dont think Mr D was likely to improve his benefits, but his fund, which at that point was the 
majority of his retirement provisions, would be subject to additional risk. I dont think he 
needed flexibility to achieve his objectives and I certainly dont think a decision on this 
needed to be made at the time it was  given how long he had until his retirement. And I also 
dont think the alternate death benefits he could potentially receive made transferring in his 
best interests. So, I dont think he shouldve been advised to transfer. 
DCFL says the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed and that it is unreasonable for us to say 
Mr D shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a genuine option. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to 
all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And the Time to Choose documentation 
confirmed that scheme members could opt into the BSPS2 but still change their mind and 
transfer prior to March 2018. So, contrary to what DCFL has said, I do think this was an 
option that DCFL couldve recommended at the time. 
Mr D had over 18 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr D wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think DCFL shouldve 
advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against DCFL's 
advice. DCFL says Mr D made an informed decision to transfer, so it thinks he wouldve 
chosen to do so even if it had advised him against it.
Ive considered this carefully. Mr D was no doubt unhappy with the situation regarding the 
BSPS. And may have had a negative opinion of his employer and how it had communicated 
and dealt with him and his colleagues. The BSPS scheme and its trustees were though not 
the same as his day-to-day employer. And Mr D was an inexperienced investor who sought 
independent advice and guidance. 
Ive seen documents that suggest Mr D and DCFL discussed the pros and cons of 
transferring. And a document was completed indicating Mr D had been made aware of the 
risks involved. But ultimately DCFL advised Mr D to transfer out, and I think Mr D relied on 
that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCFL had 
explained that Mr D was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, that the time to retirement and uncertainty over his requirements meant 
transferring at that time was not in interests and that the other things hed expressed worry 
about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that DCFL also pay Mr D £200 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr D has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
I've thought about Mr D's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr D would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr D 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr D for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the SIPP if he'd been given 
suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. Mr D has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. DCFL must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision. A copy of the 
calculation should be shared with Mr D and his representative.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, DCFL should pay Mr D £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
D C Financial Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman