DRN-3214374
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are complaining about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) handled a claim they made on Mrs Fs car insurance policy for the theft of her car.
Mr F has largely represented both Mr and Mrs F in this complaint.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs Fs car was stolen from her driveway. She reported the theft to the 
police and tracked the car through its tracker. They attended the last location noted on the 
tracker with the police but the car wasnt there. They said the police told them that thieves 
often leave the car nearby and monitor it in case theres another tracker in it and advised 
Mr and Mrs F to drive around and look for it. They did so and found the car. The car was 
taken away by the police.
The next day Mrs F contacted LV to report the theft and to make a claim on Mrs Fs car 
insurance policy. Both Mr and Mrs F spoke with LV in this call. Shortly after the call they 
called LV to complain about the way the call handler had spoken to them. They said they 
found the manner of the call handler to be very upsetting and had a complete lack of 
empathy for the situation they were in. And they asked for another complaint handler to 
handle the claim. 
Mr F later complained about the way the claim for repairing the car was being handled. He 
initially said he wanted the car to be repaired by a local manufacturer dealership as he 
wasnt comfortable using LVs approved repairer network owing to a poor previous 
experience. Mr F said he was aware there was an additional £200 excess for using a non-
approved repairer. However, the dealership suggested the repair be carried out at another 
garage  who I shall refer to as B  as I understand the dealership wasnt able to do 
bodywork repair. It also explained B was part of the approved repairer network. 
Theres a dispute about what happened next. Mr F says he explained this to LV who 
authorised B to carry out the repair. LV says it was the dealership and Mr F who instructed B 
to carry out the repairs. However LV later agreed to waive the £200 additional excess as one 
of its approved repairers carried out the repairs.
Mr F raised a further complaint about the way the telephone calls were handled and the way 
LV was handling the claim. He said LV had reduced Mrs F to tears at one point due to the 
way it spoke to her. He also complained that LV had initially referred the claim to its fraud 
team. He also emailed LVs CEO and asked him to respond directly to the concerns raised.
One of LVs complaint handlers responded to Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. He was 
satisfied the initial call was handled fairly. He said it was LVs standard practice to ask 
questions about the theft circumstances when a claim is first reported. And he was satisfied 
the call handler had handled the call professionally. The complaint handler had said it had 
tried to discuss the claim with B, but he said B had refused to discuss the matter with LV 
directly it wasnt instructed by LV. So he said it wasnt able to provide regular updates on the 
repair. 
The complaint handler said he was sorry with the length of time the repair was taking and 
that Mr and Mrs F had been without a car for a number of months, but he said this was down 
to the delay in being able to obtain certain parts. And he said this was out of LVs control. He 
acknowledged Mr F was unhappy he was continuing to have to make his monthly finance 
and insurance payments and wanted LV to contribute to this, but the complaint handler said 
this wasnt something LV was able to do.
Mr F continued to complain to LV and was unhappy the same complaint handler kept 
responding, despite him asking for LVs CEO to call him. He also complained that hed 
frequently asked for managers to call him back by specific times, but they didnt do so. He 
also said hed been shouted at on two occasions by call handlers. Mr F highlighted that 
theyd saved LV thousands of pounds by actively looking to recover the car and thought this 
should be considered against the poor customer service theyd received and that theyd had 
to continue to pay for the insurance in full without access to the car.
Mr and Mrs F later chose to change their car, but when they called LV to change the cars on 
the insurance policy, LV said it wasnt willing to insure it. However, it agreed to provide a pro-
rata refund of the insurance premium. It said it wasnt required to give a refund as a claim 
had been made, but it said it gave this as a gesture of goodwill given it was LVs decision to 
not insure the replacement car. Mr F raised a further complaint that LV wouldnt insure the 
new car. He said the replacement car was just a newer version of the original car so he 
queried what the material difference was. He also highlighted that, when he picked up the 
car, he was given a seven-day insurance policy which was also provided by LV. So he 
disputed LV didnt insure the model of car theyd acquired.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that, overall, LV had handled 
the calls unreasonably. She thought it had handled the initial call fairly. She recognised the 
call handler could have been more empathetic in the way he spoke with Mr and Mrs F, but 
she thought he acted professionally. She didnt think it was unfair for the call handler to ask 
the questions he did as she thought they were standard questions insurers generally ask at 
the start of a claim. She recognised Mr and Mrs F said they were made to feel like criminals 
themselves, but she said LV were entitled to ask the questions it did.
The investigator said shed listened to a number of other calls Mr and Mrs F had had with 
LV, but she thought the call handlers remained professional throughout. However, she 
acknowledged there was an occasion a where a call handler raised her voice, but she 
thought this was down to trying to be heard as the investigator thought Mr F had talked over 
the call handler.
The investigator did acknowledge this matter had caused Mr and Mrs F some distress and 
inconvenience due to being reduced to tears on some phone calls, not receiving call backs 
at times theyd asked for, call backs being arranged without seeing if it was convenient for 
them, being contacted on numbers they hadnt requested and being contacted by people 
theyd requested to not contact them. She recommended LV pay £100 in compensation for 
this.
The investigator also considered Mr Fs complaint that LV wouldnt insure the new car, but 
she said it had provided evidence it declined to do so because of its internal risk criteria  
not because it didnt want to do business with Mr F any longer.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators opinion and raised the following points:
He doesnt think the investigator has considered his complaint properly  in particular 
listened to all the telephone calls theyd had with LV.
He doesnt think its right the investigator just accepted LV wouldnt insure the car. And he reiterated that LV did insure the model of vehicle through the dealership directly. He 
said the dealership had told him it wouldnt use LV if it didnt insure their range of 
vehicles.
He didnt agree with the investigator that LV had handled the calls fairly. He said hed 
asked a couple of management consultants who deal in customer service to listen to the 
calls and they say that the person was clearly untrained and unsupervised and failed to 
ask the questions in a format which would minimise the obvious distress Mrs F was in.
He said the investigator hadnt commented on the fact hed saved LV thousands of 
pounds by finding the car, but theyd had to continue to pay for the insurance in full. 
He disputed there was a confusion about the approved repairer. He maintained the fault 
for this lay entirely with LV. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill now 
explain why.  
Firstly, I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in less detail than theyve 
set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but this simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr and Mrs F Ive considered everything both parties have provided. In 
this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
I should first state that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the industry regulator. Its 
not this services role to police the insurance industry or to fine and punish a business 
where something went wrong. We are a dispute resolution service and our role is to look to 
put things right where somethings gone wrong. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that LV have treated them unfairly and are deeply 
unhappy with the way LV has handled the claim. Ive also considered what theyve told us 
about how distressing theyve found this matter. However, its also inevitable there will be 
some inconvenience when making a claim. In this decision I need to think about whether LV 
has acted unreasonably in the way its handled the claim.
Mr and Mrs F have raised a number of separate complaint points. I shall look to respond to 
them separately.
Handling of telephone calls
Mr F has raised concerns about a number of telephone calls theyve had with LV. Initially 
they said there were unhappy with way the initial telephone call, when they first called to 
report the theft, was handled. They also think its unreasonable their claim was first referred 
to LVs fraud department. I should first set out that its standard industry practice for insurers 
to investigate and validate claims and its not unreasonable they do so. 
Just because a car is stolen, it doesnt mean the insurance policy will always cover the loss. 
Insurance policies contain various exclusions and conditions and insurers are entitled to ask 
questions to ascertain whether a claim is covered or not. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F took 
offence to the questions the call handler asked, but I dont think it was unfair he asked them. 
The questions he asked were to get a full understanding of what happened and to enable LV to assess whether the claim was covered or not. I dont think it was unreasonable he asked 
them. Ultimately LV agreed to settle the claim following this telephone call.
However, I do agree with Mr and Mrs F that the call handler could have been more 
empathetic to their situation. Had he done so, I think it could have reduced the impact this 
would have had on them. However, I think the underlying unhappiness is down to the 
questions that were asked. And, as I said, it was fair for LV to ask these questions.
Ive also listened to a number of other telephone calls Mr and Mrs F have had with LV. 
Overall I think the call handlers handled the calls fairly and professionally. Its clear from the 
telephone calls that Mr F was very unhappy with the way LV was handling the claim, but I 
think the call handlers were looking to try and help him throughout. I accept there was an 
occasion where a call handler raised her voice. But I think this had been a challenging call 
due to Mr Fs unhappiness with what had happened and there had been a number of times 
in the call where hed talked over the call handler. That said, I dont think there were 
reasonable grounds for her to raise her voice.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly that LVs call handlers were rude and aggressive towards 
him and his wife. But I havent seen anything to support this. Im not saying that Mr and 
Mrs F didnt find the calls distressing, as its clear from what theyve said that they did. But I 
havent seen enough for me to say LV treated them wholly unreasonably in these calls.
Confusion over the approved repairer
In the initial telephone call Mr F had with LV, he made it clear he didnt want to use LVs 
approved repairer network because of his previous experience. And he chose to use his own 
chosen garage to complete the work  a manufacturer dealership. However, it seems the 
dealership wasnt able to complete all the work and recommended that the car go to B.
Mr F says he telephoned LV to inform it of this and LV authorised the repair to be done at B. 
But I havent seen anything to support this. LV has given us a call recording of a call it had 
with the dealership which shows it was the dealership who referred the repair to B. I havent 
seen anything to support that LV were involved in the repair arrangements until 6 January 
2021 when LV spoke to the dealership and it was advised the repairs were being carried out 
by B. It subsequently spoke to Mr F in relation to his complaint and agreed to treat the repair 
as being carried out by one of its approved repairers. 
Its not disputed that there was some confusion regarding who was dealing with the repairs. 
Its possible the dealership may have told Mr F it would arrange for B to liaise with LV, but I 
cant hold LV responsible for anything the dealership did or didnt do. Ultimately, I dont think 
Ive seen anything to show LV handled the repair process unfairly.
Handling of the complaints
Mr F has raised a number of concerns about the way LV has handled his complaints. In 
particular his complained that he frequently wrote to LVs CEO but didnt receive a response 
from him or from someone sufficiently senior. Hes also unhappy that he continually had a 
response from the same complaint handler even though he specifically asked for someone 
else to review his concerns. Finally, hes unhappy he requested call backs at specific times, 
but didnt receive them.
All insurers will have their own complaints process and are required to do so. And insurers 
are entitled to follow this process. Mr F sent LVs CEO numerous emails and has expressed 
unhappiness that he didnt respond, but I dont think its unreasonable he didnt do so. 
Insurers have a complaints department and that department will always be best placed to respond to a complaint. Im satisfied LVs concerns that he expressed to the CEO were 
responded to by an appropriate person and I dont think LV treated him unfairly in this 
regard.
However, I can see there were some occasions where Mr and Mrs F asked for a change in 
claims handler, but the same claims handler called to confirm that would happen. I dont 
think this was fair and LV should have arranged for someone else to notify them a different 
claims handler was going to handle their claim going forward. That said, Im not persuaded 
that this caused Mr and Mrs F any material distress and inconvenience.
Finally, Ive considered Mr Fs complaint that LVs managers didnt always call him back at 
the times he asked them to. As I said above, LV has its own complaint process and its 
entitled to follow it. While consumers are, of course, entitled to asked to be called at certain 
times, they similarly arent entitled to dictate how a complaint should be followed. I would 
expect insurers to look to accommodate a request where it can, but it wouldnt always be 
possible. 
I think LVs call handlers did say theyd try to get a manager to call Mr F at the time he asked 
for, but I cant see that they promised him this would happen  he was simply told a manager 
would call back. Mr F has also said hes unhappy he received a text message as an update, 
rather than receive a call. But I dont think its unreasonable that LV sent an update this way. 
Ultimately, I understand a manager wasnt available to speak with Mr F at the time he 
requested, so its not unreasonable that it sent an update to him by other means.
Ultimately, while I do appreciate Mr F is unhappy with the way LV has handled and 
responded to his complaints, I dont think it handled them wholly unreasonably.
LV wouldnt insure his replacement car
Mr F believes LV wouldnt insure their replacement car because it didnt want to do business 
with him and he doesnt agree its just because it wouldnt insure the model of vehicle.
As I said above, this service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct LV generally 
about how it conducts its business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has 
treated Mr and Mrs F fairly.  
LV has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated its annual premiums and assesses what it is and isnt willing to insure. Im afraid I 
cant share that information with Mr and Mrs F, but Ive considered it carefully. 
When assessing what level of risk its willing to provide, insurers take into account a large 
number of factors. As I said above, its not down to me to tell LV what factors it should take 
into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about its assessment. Different insurers will 
have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of that risk. Ultimately, what LV is 
and isnt willing to insure is essentially a matter of commercial judgement and isnt 
something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
As I said, LV take into a range of factors when assessing risk and this risk assessment is 
always evolving after continual review of markets and the risk situations. Ultimately, LV has 
shown, based on all of Mr and Mrs Fs risk profile  not just the make and model of their car 
 the risk fell outside of one which it was willing to insure. Im satisfied its applied the same risk profiling to what it would to other customers in a 
similar situation. So I dont think it declined to insure the replacement car just because it 
didnt want to do business with them any longer  its simply a risk LV wasnt willing to insure 
based on all of Mr and Mrs Fs personal circumstances.
I should also state that I think LV acted more than fairly in providing a pro-rata refund of the 
annual premium after the policy was cancelled. The terms of the insurance policy, like all 
similar insurance policies, say LV wont give a refund of the annual premium when a policy is 
cancelled and its settled a claim during the policy term. As LV settled the claim for Mrs Fs 
cars theft, it didnt have to give any refund of premium  regardless of the fact Mrs F had to 
cancel the policy because LV wouldnt insure her new car. And I wouldnt have said it was 
unfair had it chosen to not give a refund.
LV wouldnt reduce their monthly insurance payments
Mrs F took out an annual car insurance policy. LV required her to pay an annual premium 
and Mrs F needed to pay this at the start of the policy. Mrs F wanted to pay for the policy 
through monthly instalments. To enable her to do so, she took out a finance agreement with 
a third-party finance provider. The finance provider paid the annual premium on Mrs Fs 
behalf and Mrs F agreed in return to repay this in line with the terms of the finance 
agreement. 
The key point here is that, while Mrs F was paying for the policy monthly, she didnt have a 
monthly insurance policy. The monthly payments she made werent monthly insurance 
premiums, but payments being made to reduce the balance on the finance agreement. As I 
said above, the terms of the insurance policy say that LV isnt required to give any refund on 
the annual premium where a claim has been made.
I dont dispute Mr and Mrs F lost out because of the cars theft, but there will always be some 
distress and inconvenience arising from making a claim. I also dont dispute the situation 
would have been different had they not found the car themselves. But LV are entitled to 
consider and apply the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs insurance policy. So I dont think it 
acted unfairly in not reducing the monthly payments while the car was being repaired.
Summary
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im largely satisfied that LV treated Mr and Mrs F fairly in 
its handling of the claim and responding to their complaints. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F have 
found the claim process distressing, but I dont think the majority of this was down to 
anything LV did wrong and was just down to the unfortunate nature of claim handling. 
However, as I set out above, I think there were some occasions where LV could have acted 
differently to minimise the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs F have suffered. The 
investigator recommended £100 in compensation and I think this is in line with what I would 
have awarded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint 
and I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs F £100 in 
compensation. It should pay this to them directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Guy MitchellOmbudsman