DRN-4297953
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr D made a claim on his motor policy when the rear windscreen of his vehicle was 
damaged.
An appointment was made for Admiral to repair Mr Ds windscreen, but the 
technician didnt attend. 
A subsequent appointment was arranged but the technician said the windscreen 
couldnt be replaced due to the position of the spoiler. Mr D was advised to take his 
car to a body shop to have the spoiler removed  which he did at a cost to himself.  
Admirals technician re-attended and fitted a new rear windscreen. Mr D says that 
following this he found glass in his vehicle and a rattling noise has started coming 
from his boot. 
Mr D complained to Admiral about the service he received saying hed had to spend 
time chasing Admiral for updates on bookings, and that his father had taken time off 
work to wait for the technician - who didnt arrive. He said his name being spelt 
incorrectly meant he failed to receive email notifications and he didnt think it was fair 
hed had to pay for the spoiler to be removed. 
In reply Admiral apologised for the difficulties Mr D had experienced and paid £35 
compensation. 
Mr D remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
upheld the complaint and said Admiral should: pay £150 compensation in total; cover 
the costs Mr D incurred in having the spoiler removed; investigate the noise 
emanating from Mr Ds cars boot. 
Mr D accepted the Investigators findings. Admiral replied saying:
oIt wasnt responsible for the noise from Mr Ds boot which could have been 
caused by glass (from the incident) entering the vehicles body casing and 
making a noise upon movement of the car. 
oThe technician would only be expected to clean visible glass at the time of the 
repair.
oThe spoiler bolts had ceased, and as this wasnt something the technician 
could resolve, the vehicle needed to go to a body shop before the windscreen 
could be replaced.
The Investigator considered Admirals comment, but maintained her position, and so, 
the complaint has been passed to be for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached, and Ill explain why. 
Should Admiral cover the cost of having the spoiler removed and replaced?
The starting point is the policy document which says under Cover for your windscreen:
If there has not been any other loss or damage, we will pay to: Repair or replace 
broken glass in your vehicles windscreen, windows or sunroof.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear a damaged windscreen will be repaired or replaced 
so long as theres no other loss or damage. Admiral has replaced the windscreen  thus 
accepting there wasnt any other or loss damage - but in doing so, asked Mr D to have the 
spoiler removed at a cost to himself so it could complete the repair. It said this was because 
the spoiler bolts had stopped working. 
So, Ive considered whether the removal of the spoiler should be covered by Admiral and in 
doing so, Ive looked at What is not covered under the Windscreen section of the policy. I 
note theres no reference to ancillary costs  or put another way, costs which are required to 
enable the repair or replacement to take place. Ultimately, Admirals obligation was to 
replace the windscreen and it couldnt do so without removing the spoiler. Whilst Admiral has 
said its technician couldnt do it because the bolts had ceased, it hasnt been able to point to 
an exclusion which persuades me that the cost of removing the spoiler isnt covered under 
the policy. And so, I agree with our Investigator that Admiral should reimburse Mr D the cost 
of having the spoiler removed and replaced (subject to proof of payment). 
Outstanding issue 
Mr D has complained to Admiral saying a rattling sound is emanating from the boot of his car 
and that it started after his rear windscreen was replaced. Admiral has suggested the noise 
is to do with fragments of glass (from the original incident) becoming encased in the body of 
the vehicle and then moving about when the car is driven. It said its not to do with its 
technicians workmanship. But without physically reviewing Mr Ds vehicle, Im not 
persuaded the issue has been explored sufficiently.
Given the matter is ongoing, Im not going to decide whether Admiral needs to do any further 
work, but I am going to direct them to send an agent to physically review and investigate 
whether the rattling originates from the repair. It should share its findings with Mr D and 
consider whether it needs to take any further steps under the policy. Should the matter not 
be resolved, this is a matter this Service may look into in the future. Compensation 
Admiral has accepted the service it provided when arranging appointments and keeping           
Mr D informed fell short of what he could expect to receive. Whilst its paid £35 
compensation, I dont consider this reasonably reflects the difficulties hes experienced. 
Understandably, the technician failing to arrive for a scheduled appointment inconvenienced 
Mr D and meant he was without a repaired windscreen for longer than he needed to be. And 
not receiving emails due to his name being incorrectly spelt was an avoidable problem. This, 
coupled with the time Mr D spent chasing for updates, satisfies me that the compensation 
recommended by the Investigator  namely, £150  is fair in the circumstances. 
Im aware Mr D has said his father was inconvenienced because of Admirals shortcomings, 
but Im not able to consider the impact on third parties and so, I wont be awarding 
compensation in respect of his father.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
to: 
Pay £150 compensation in total (it can deduct £35 from this amount if its already 
been paid). Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Reimburse Mr D the cost of having the spoiler removed and replaced (subject to 
proof of receipt). 8% a year simple interest should be added from the date Mr D 
made payment to the date hes reimbursed by Admiral.  
Send an agent to physically review Mr Ds car to determine if the rattling noise is 
connected to the replacement windscreen works. The findings of which should be 
shared with Mr D, and Admiral must consider whether it needs to take further steps 
under the policy in respect of this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman