DRN-2291719
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly registered a fraud marker at 
CIFAS the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss A contacted Barclays when she found out about the marker. She says that she had no 
knowledge of fraudulent funds paid into her account and then withdrawn. Miss A says this is 
affecting her ability to have an account at any other financial business.
Barclays says it received a report on 31 December 2019 that two payments of £1,025 sent to 
Miss As account on 24 December 2019 were fraudulently obtained. The money had been 
quickly withdrawn and spent using Miss As payment card and PIN in Birmingham. Barclays 
said that Miss As account was accessed multiple times using mobile banking at the relevant 
time. And that a payment of £3 on 26 December 2019 bringing the balance down to a few 
pence was made using her mobile payment service.  It wrote to Miss A to tell her it was 
closing the account and had no contact from her at the time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
- Miss A had explained that she left her card at home as she used her mobile phone to 
make payments. But she had no explanation for how someone had taken her card 
which she said was missing and also had obtained her PIN which wasnt written 
down.
- Miss A said she had only accessed mobile banking during 24 and 25 December 2019 
to check her Barclaycard balance. But hed noted 68 logins between 24 and 31 
December 2019 of which 55 were made on 24 December 2019 - the day that the 
fraudulent funds were paid in.
- He didnt think that Miss A was unaware of what was happening on her account and 
said that the CIFAS marker wasnt added incorrectly.
Miss A didnt agree. She said that she wasnt in Birmingham until 26 December 2019. She 
has provided evidence she says supports this. She was travelling at the time due to meeting 
a friend from abroad and for work. She didnt recall looking at her account this many times 
on her phone. Miss A said she lives with family but didnt suspect anyone close to her was 
involved. However, she considered herself to be the victim and that this has affected her 
badly and means she cant access an account elsewhere. There were personal reasons why 
she didnt pursue this when her account was closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive considered the further information Miss A has provided and which I understand from its 
case notes that Barclays has already in the main seen. She has provided a screenshot of an 
electronic rail ticket from Manchester to London at 18:15 on 24 December 2019. And social 
media chats about her movements. She has a cooking video she says shows she was in 
London on the evening of 25 December 2019.  And shes shown her difficulties in getting 
another account.
It is difficult to verify and so weigh this information other than about her failed account 
applications which I accept at face value. But even if I were to agree that Miss A was in the 
locations she says she was it doesnt help me resolve the following:
- How an unknown third party obtained her card from the family home and had this in 
Birmingham. And how that person found out the PIN when Miss A says she didnt 
need to use it herself as she made payments with her phone and says that this 
wasnt her main account anyway.
- Why there were so many logins to her account using her phone and mobile banking. 
Ive checked and seen that many came at exactly the time the payments were 
credited and then withdrawn. Miss A is clear she didnt give her phone to anyone and 
seeks to use evidence of chats or an electronic ticket which I understand to be from 
that phone to support where she was. Im afraid I dont find her saying she doesnt 
recall the multiple access to her account credible and nor that she wouldnt have 
noticed the large payments, and which were then withdrawn. The information 
indicates that close monitoring of her account was taking place. And so, I find it 
difficult to see why she wouldnt reasonably have raised this at the time with 
Barclays.
- After a cash point withdrawal of £500 on 24 December 2019 there were two declined 
attempts to make a payment of £1,128 at a store. Barclays says these were flagged 
on suspicion of fraud and that a text was sent to Miss As phone and a reply made 
that it was a genuine payment. I know Miss A says she has now changed her phone 
and doesnt recall the text. But there was most likely some way in which this payment 
which then went through was confirmed and the account allowed to continue to 
operate. And I cant see how that came from anyone other than Miss A.
- Miss A told Barclays she didnt make the £3 payment on 26 December 2019. But 
Barclays has shown that this was made with the device used by Miss A to access her 
account before.
I appreciate Miss As genuine distress at the CIFAS marker and that she hadnt anticipated 
that this could happen. But Im afraid I dont find it most likely that she knew nothing about 
the way her account was being used given what Ive said above. Even if as she says she 
wasnt in the relevant location that wouldnt rule out her allowing someone else to use her 
account. Im not persuaded that the person using her account was an unknown third party 
and I consider she allowed her account to be used in a way that facilitated the payment 
away of these fraudulently obtained funds. I dont think she was unwitting in this and I find 
she reasonably knew about the transactions on her account.Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss A received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss As account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss A received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- She allowed the withdrawal of the funds and so was effectively in control of who had 
the benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Miss A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As a result, I dont have a reasonable basis to require Barclays to take any further action. I 
appreciate how disappointed Miss A will be with this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman