DRN-4005253
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard wont refund money lost to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr F came into contact with a broker who claimed to work for a company Ill refer to as (E), 
a company authorised and regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySec). The broker told him to invest in natural oil and platinum and that he was 
guaranteed to make a profit.
Between 20 November 2019 and 19 May 2020, Mr F used his Barclaycard to make four 
payments to E totalling £1,400. He also borrowed £5,000 from his wife which was paid to E 
directly from an account in her name that she held with another bank.
On 26 May 2020, Mr Fs trading account showed a balance of £7,818.27, so he asked the 
broker if he could withdraw some money. But the broker told him to invest more money and 
so he invested a further £2,000. The following day, the broker advised Mr F to deposit a 
further £7,000, but he said he didnt have the money. He then suspected hed been the 
victim of a scam when his trading account showed that all trades had closed.
Mr F complained about E to CySec, but it didnt uphold his complaint, stating it had found no 
evidence of breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
He also contacted Barclaycard to tell it hed been the victim of a scam and that E had used 
scare-mongering tactics, given bad advice, and had prevented him from withdrawing his 
money. He said he blamed E for his lost profits, and that it should refund the money hed 
lost.
Barclaycard didnt accept it had done anything wrong, but it refunded the £1,400 Mr F had 
paid to E using his Barclaycard as a gesture of goodwill. It said it was unable to refund the 
£5,000 Mr F had borrowed from his wife, explaining shed need to complain to her own bank.
Mr F complained to this service explaining hed lost his job and had borrowed money from 
his wife. He said Barclaycard had said it was unable to raise a claim under s75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 as it was out of time, but that it had caused the delays and had 
refused to refund the money hed borrowed from his wife, even though it was all part of the 
same scam. 
Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Barclaycard 
had refunded the money hed paid to E using his Barclaycard, and that hed also been given 
£500 compensation from E. She explained he wouldnt be able to raise a claim under s75 for 
the £5,000 hed borrowed from his wife because the money was paid direct from his wifes 
bank account.
Mr F wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He 
maintains E was operating a scam and was responsible for his loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
the £1,400 paid from Mr Fs Barclaycard
Barclaycard has refunded £1,400 Mr F paid to E using his Barclaycard. In circumstances 
where a bank ought to have raised a claim under s75, this service often awards interest on 
the payments, but as theres no evidence of breach of contract or misrepresentation, Im 
satisfied Barclaycard doesnt need to do anything further.
the £5,000 paid from Mr Fs wifes account
Any complaint about the £5,000 that was paid to E from Mr Fs wifes account would need to 
be made to the sending bank, which wasnt Barclaycard. Further, as Mr F isnt a named 
account holder, any complaint would need to be brought by his wife.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly tell Barclaycard to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman