DRN-3278077
The complaint
Mr H complains that Oplo PL Ltd are not reporting things correctly on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a personal loan that Mr H took out in 2018. In 2020, he fell behind 
on the repayments.
In November 2020, Mr H was approved to enter into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS), 
and in January 2021 Oplo began receiving reduced repayments.
In March 2021, Oplo defaulted the account.
Mr H argues that the DAS supersedes his original agreement, and so his default should be 
backdated and Oplo should be marking his payments as on time rather than continuing to 
report the default.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Oplo were allowed to default the account, and had sent the proper notice. 
They explained Oplo were correctly reporting the account as being defaulted but in a 
payment plan. 
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr H and Oplo a provisional decision on 21 March 2022, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should only be partially upheld. In that decision, I said:
Lenders are allowed to default accounts even when the customers in a DAS. And Mr H was 
in sufficient arrears for Oplo to default the account here. Theyre not required to report the 
account status as being on time as Mr H has suggested.
Lenders are required to report things accurately on credit files  and as far as I can see, 
thats what Oplo have done here. Theyre correctly reporting that the account defaulted and 
that its in a payment plan. Each month, Oplo are not registering a brand-new default, they 
are simply recording that the account is still in the same default it went into in March 2021. 
I understand Mr H is worried that the default will roll over and stay on his file for 12 years, but 
I hope I can reassure him that it will not. The default will fall off of Mr Hs credit file after six 
years from the original default date, like any other default. 
So I dont think Oplo have done anything substantially wrong here.
With that said, I think it would be fair if Oplo backdated the default date. Ill explain.
Mr Hs DAS was approved in November 2020. By that point, he was sufficiently far in arrears 
for his account to be defaulted. And given the DAS and the long-term reduced payment plan 
it involved, Oplo knew by this point that Mr H was not going to be able to clear his arrears 
and return to making his full contractual repayments any time soon. So at that point, it would 
have been fair for Oplo to default him.
By backdating the default, it could help make Mr Hs credit file look a bit better now, as the 
default will be less recent, which may look better to potential lenders. It also means the 
default will fall off Mr Hs file more quickly. And it would be consistent with how defaults are 
normally dated when a formal arrangement scheme is put in place.
Oplo say they werent aware of the DAS until much later. But I can see from their internal 
systems that they were told about the DAS by Mr H and his representatives in September 
and December 2020. And Oplos own final response says they were advised of the DASs 
approval on 25 November 2020. Further, even if Oplo werent aware of the DAS at the time, 
now that they are aware I still think it would be right to backdate the default date.
So I propose that Oplo backdate the default to 25 November 2020. I dont plan to award 
anything further.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Oplo said they were happy to 
backdate the default. Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision, which Ill talk about 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H felt that we were mixing up his Debt Arrangement Scheme with English alternatives. 
He insisted that he should only be marked as being in a default in December 2020, with his 
account being marked as up to date under new terms after.
I can assure Mr H Im fully aware that his Debt Arrangement Scheme is a Scottish scheme 
and that it is different to English or Welsh alternatives. But nonetheless, even while in a 
Scottish DAS, lenders can default ones accounts, and the default stays on ones credit file 
for six years. Lenders are not required to report the account as being up to date, even while 
in the DAS. And I would not expect Oplo to report this account as being up to date, because 
in reality it fell behind and defaulted.
As I explained in the provisional decision, Im afraid Mr H seems to be mistaken about how 
defaults work. Lenders wont only mark you as being in a default for one particular month. 
Once the default happens, the debt stays in default until it falls off your credit file. Again, 
Oplo are not registering a new default each month for Mr H. They are simply recording that 
his account is still in the same default it went into before. And thats correct. The default will 
fall off Mr Hs credit file after six years from its registration date  which will now be 
backdated to November 2020, meaning itll fall off his file earlier.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, for the 
reasons set out above.My final decision
I direct Oplo PL Ltd to backdate Mr Hs default to 25 November 2020. I do not award 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman