DRN-4342336
Complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage Finance) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with him. Hes said he was in financial difficulty when he applied 
for the credit and so shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2017, Advantage Finance provided Mr H with finance for a used motorbike. 
The cash price of the vehicle was £5,090.00. Mr H paid a deposit of £100 and applied for a 
loan to cover the remaining £4,990.00. The loan had interest, fees and total charges of 
£5,216.04 (comprising of interest of £4,716.04, an acceptance fee of £325 and an option to 
purchase fee of £175), and the total amount to be repaid of £10,306.56 (not including Mr Hs 
deposit) was due to be repaid in 53 monthly instalments of £185.76 and one final payment of 
£360.76. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Advantage 
Finance had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that        
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Advantage Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that Advantage Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr H could make him payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to him. And if the checks Advantage Finance carried out werent sufficient, I 
then need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Advantage Finance says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on Mr H. During this assessment, Mr H provided details of his 
monthly income. 
Advantage Finance says it also carried out credit searches on Mr H which showed some 
previous adverse credit information and outstanding balances. But when the amount Mr H 
already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Hs living expenses, based on statistical data 
from the Office of National Statistics, were deducted from him monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mr H says he was already struggling at 
the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr H and Advantage Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Advantage Finance carried out did go far enough. Advantage Finances searches showed 
that Mr H had had previous difficulties with credit. In my view, Advantage Finance needed to 
take further steps to verify Mr Hs actual living costs, given what the credit search showed in 
order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Advantage Finance didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Advantage Finance is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information 
from Mr H. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payment, I would have expected Advantage Finance to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr Hs regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit 
commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mr H has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Mr Hs committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from his monthly income at the time, he did have 
the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
I appreciate that Mr H has said that he was overdrawn at the time. But I dont think that         
Mr Hs overdraft usage was at a level where it could be reasonably concluded that he was 
trapped in that type of borrowing and therefore shouldnt have been lent to. 
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether Advantage Finance 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H, is whether Mr H had sufficient disposable income 
to enable him to make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that Mr H did have sufficient 
funds left over, once his regular living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was 
deducted from his monthly income, to make his monthly payments in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Advantage 
Finances checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr H did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
prevented Advantage Finance from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement 
with him. Im therefore satisfied that Advantage Finance didnt act unfairly towards Mr H 
when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman