DRN-3685457
The complaint
Mr J has complained because he feels advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited to 
transfer his defined benefit occupational pension to a personal pension was unsuitable.
What happened
The advice was given in 1990 and the transfer was made shortly after.
In 2001, as part of an industry-wide review of pension advice that was overseen by the 
regulator (known as the Pension Review), Phoenix reviewed the advice that Mr J was 
given. It concluded that Mr J had suffered a loss because of the advice and it made an offer 
(to add 596.801 units to the International Fund that Mr J was invested in and to add 135.736 
units to the Managed Fund he was invested in) in order to make up for that loss. Mr J 
accepted the offer and the units were later added to his pension.
In 2020 Mr J complained to Phoenix about the advice hed received in 1990. Phoenix said 
the advice had been considered as part of the Pension Review so it wasnt going to look at 
the matter again.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt that as 
Phoenix had correctly reviewed the advice as part of the Pension Review there werent any 
grounds for her to ask it to review it again. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter as he remained of the view that the advice and compensation awarded wasnt in his 
best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1994 the then regulator established the Pensions Review. This wasnt in itself a 
complaints process  it was a one-off exercise to resolve any mis-selling issues and the 
intention was to avoid consumers needing to bring complaints. Once a review had been 
done, there wasnt normally a requirement for businesses to revisit cases.
In effect, Mr J has brought his complaint to us because he doesnt think the Pension Review 
was done properly ie he wasnt properly compensated. As compensation was offered to Mr J 
in 2001 theres an argument to say that having reviewed the advice Phoenix accepted it was 
unsuitable and/or it caused Mr J to suffer a loss. The calculations a business had to carry out 
were complex and we dont have the resources to thoroughly check every calculation as a 
matter of course in such a way that we can guarantee there are no errors. If thats the level 
of assurance Mr J is seeking he might wish to employ his own professionally qualified 
actuary (at his own expense) to check the calculations.
I can sometimes consider if a consumer hasnt been properly compensated but only if they 
can explain what error the business made. But even if something particular is flagged as an 
issue Ill usually only carry out a sense check of the calculations by checking that the 
information used by the business (eg date of birth, marital status) was correct. In this case 
Mr J hasnt pointed to any specific calculation error that Mr J made. And I place considerable 
weight on the fact that the regulator supervised and sampled businesss calculations  which 
included going back to correct any systemic errors.
I do recognise that in many cases the assumptions the regulator required businesses to use 
when calculating compensation havent been borne out in reality. So there are often grounds 
for consumers to argue that the compensation paid many years ago doesnt now look 
enough. But this in itself wont lead me to conclude that there was a mistake in the 
calculations. This is because a business was only required to carry out the Pension Review 
once, based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact that these 
assumptions may not have been achieved is not grounds to redo the calculation and doesnt 
mean the calculations were incorrect.
Phoenix has provided us with details of the information and assumptions it used in 
calculating the compensation and nothing glaring jumps out at me as being incorrect. This, 
together with the fact that Mr J hasnt pointed to any specific error and the regulator 
overseeing the Pension Review (including, as Ive said above, checking calculations), leads 
me to conclude that Phoenixs calculations were most likely correct. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman