DRN-1232394
 
complaint
Miss D, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us about a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy she bought from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) in November 2001.
background
Miss D bought the PPI when she took out a credit card with Nationwide. 
The PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. She says she didnt need 
the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Miss D disagrees, her 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss D says she doesnt remember how she bought the policy. But from what Nationwide 
has told me I think its likely that she bought it by post. Miss D has also said she cant be 
sure whether Nationwide made a recommendation that she should buy the policy. From my 
review of the file I agree with Nationwide that that it didnt make a recommendation to her as 
it looks most likely she bought the PPI when she filled in an application form and posted it 
back. That means that although Nationwide didnt have to check that it was suitable for her 
personal situation, it still needed to make sure it gave her clear information about the policy 
that wasnt misleading. 
By applying by way of a postal application, Miss D wouldve shown on the application form 
that shed like to buy PPI to go with her card. Nationwide has given us a copy of the 
application form. On that, I see Miss D had ticked a box to show she wanted to buy PPI. She 
could just as easily have ticked the box immediately below to show she wasnt interested. So 
it looks to me as if she thought about PPI and decided it was something that would be useful 
to her. 
Ive seen that Miss D was eligible for the cover and doesnt seem to have been 
disadvantaged by any of the policys main exclusions. Miss D told us she had good employer 
benefits that would have given her full pay for 6 months followed by half pay for the next 
6 months. If she made a successful claim, the PPI would pay out for at least 12 months, 
covering 10% of the outstanding balance on the card. So Miss D could have been reassured 
that her payments  would have been covered for a full 12 months, receiving the benefit of the policy in addition to those she would already be receiving from her employer. It would also 
pay out in addition to any other sources of funding or support that Miss D may have had 
available. 
The policy initially cost 60p for each £100 of outstanding credit card balance. Ive seen that 
basic details about the cost of the PPI, as well as how the policy worked,  were shown on the 
application form that Miss D filled in. In addition, I havent seen anything to make me think 
that Miss D couldnt afford to pay the policy premiums. Therefore, given that I think Miss D 
was aware she had a choice about buying the policy, I think she still would have bought it if 
shed been given fuller details of the cost as well as more detailed information about the card 
and how it worked. Ive seen that Nationwide says it sent her details of the policy benefits but 
I cant know for sure that this happened. 
So overall, I think Nationwide did enough when selling Miss D the PPI. I cant be sure that it 
gave her all the information it should have, but I dont think shed be any worse off as a 
result. It follows that I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman