DRN-2258669
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way Capital One (Europe) plc has compensated him for its 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a credit card.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M complained to Capital One that hed been mis-sold a PPI policy with a credit 
card ending 0510. Capital One responded to Mr Ms complaint, accepting that the PPI policy 
had been mis-sold. It offered to pay him compensation for this mis-sale of £394.56. As 
Mr Ms credit card account was in default, Capital One deducted this compensation from the 
outstanding balance on the account.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service because he wasnt happy with the way 
Capital One had compensated him for the PPI mis-sale. He said he had asked Capital One 
to look into a PPI claim in 2011 without success. And he said that despite been seriously 
injured in an accident at work in 2005, he hadnt been able to claim on his PPI policy and 
Capital One had levied additional charges and interest on his account as a result. He also 
said that Capital Ones offer hadnt compensated him for the PPI premiums hes paid since 
the start of his credit card and PPI policy. He said that the policy was active from 1999, but 
Capital One only calculated his compensation from January 2003.
Our adjudicator thought that the compensation offer made by Capital One was fair. So she 
didnt think it needed to do anything more to compensate Mr M for the mis-sale. 
Mr M doesnt agree. He says he still thinks he hadnt been offered enough compensation by 
Capital One because it hasnt taken account of the full amount of time he was being charged 
for the PPI on his credit card account.
As Mr M doesnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One upheld Mr Ms mis-sale complaint. This means that in this decision I wont be 
looking at how the policy came to be sold. Ill only be looking at whether the way Capital One 
has compensated Mr M for the mis-sale is fair.
When, as in this case, a business accepts that it has mis-sold a PPI policy, we expect it  as 
far as is possible  to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the mis-
sale hadnt occurred. 
This would normally involve the business refunding any PPI premiums which have been 
paid, together with any interest charged on those premiums. Sometimes the business may 
also need to take account of such things as additional charges that may have been incurred 
as a result of taking out the PPI. We would also expect the business to add simple interest at 
8% for the time the consumer has been deprived of money they would otherwise have had 
available to them if they hadnt been sold the PPI. And where a consumer still owes money 
on the account to which the PPI was attached, we will normally think that it is fair for the 
business to deduct the compensation otherwise payable to the consumer from the 
outstanding balance on that account.
Ive first considered what Mr M has said about his credit card account ending 0510 being 
open since 1999. And having done so, I dont think that Mr Ms recollection of when he 
opened this account can be correct. I say this because Capital One has provided a copy of 
the credit agreement which Mr M signed and dated when he took out his credit card. And 
this shows that the credit card account was opened in January 2003. Ive also seen a 
transaction history for the account which starts from this date. So Im satisfied that this card 
account was not in use before January 2003. It may be that Mr M did hold another credit 
card before 2003, but this complaint only concerns the account ending 0510, so I dont need 
to consider this possibility further here.
Ive next looked at the summary of financial transactions and balances which Capital One 
has provided for Mr Ms card account, together with the calculations supporting the 
compensation it offered him for this PPI mis-sale. And having carefully reviewed these, Im 
satisfied that Capital One has calculated the compensation due to Mr M correctly - in the 
way I would have expected. This includes the account Capital One has taken of any 
additional charges or interest which arose directly as a result of the mis-sale. This account 
summary also shows that, at the time the compensation offer was calculated, Mr Ms card 
account was in default and that there remained an outstanding balance on it which 
significantly exceeded this offer. And in these circumstances, I think it was fair for 
Capital One to offset fully the compensation due to Mr M against this outstanding balance.
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr M has previously said about trying to make a PPI claim in 
2011 and about not being able to claim for an injury he sustained in 2005, resulting in Capital 
One levying additional charges and interest on his account. Capital One says it doesnt have 
any record of these matters being raised with it by Mr M. Its provided screen shots from the 
system it says it used at the time to record such contacts and I can see that they dont 
appear to show any record of these communications between Mr M and Capital One. 
However, if Mr M thinks that he does have a valid claim against the policy during the period it 
was in force, it is still open to him to discuss making a backdated claim with the insurer of the 
policy.
In summary, having carefully considered Mr Ms complaint, Im satisfied that Capital One has 
calculated the compensation due to Mr M correctly. And Im also satisfied that it was fair for 
Capital One to deduct this compensation amount from the larger balance which was still 
outstanding on Mr Ms credit card account at that date. So I dont think Capital One needs to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman