DRN-2331442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Newcastle Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out PPI when they applied for a mortgage which started in 1988. The 
policy was in Mr Fs name and it couldve covered their mortgage repayments in the event 
that Mr F was unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr F had taken out a mortgage before this but theres nothing to suggest he took out PPI 
with that mortgage. So in my decision Im just concentrating on the PPI sold with 
Mr and Mrs Fs joint mortgage in 1988.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs F mainly said they felt the policy was mis-sold because the advisors who talked 
to them when they arranged their mortgage told Mr F that without this insurance no 
mortgage application would be accepted. So they felt they were bullied into taking out PPI 
despite having family support they couldve relied on if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs F are certain about everything theyve told us. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs F to remember exactly what was discussed 
when they took out PPI so long ago. So whilst I understand their concern that the PPI wasnt 
presented as optional, what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
their complaint about how they were sold the PPI. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. If theres only limited 
information I have to make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Newcastle 
Building Society didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs F not to choose PPI if 
they didnt want to have it.  
I say this because Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage with PPI in a Newcastle Building 
Society branch and I've seen some of the paperwork they completed. 
On their mortgage application theres a section dealing with payment protection. Theres a 
brief description of the cover available and next to where it says: Do you want this 
insurance? there are YES and NO tick boxes.
So, although I dont know what was said about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve been 
able to see on the application that PPI was separate from the mortgage and that they 
couldve ticked the option not to have PPI if they hadnt wanted to take it out. This isnt 
wording that I think wouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs F that PPI wasnt optional or that they 
had no choice but to take it out in order to get the mortgage they wanted.
Theres a tick indicating that Mr and Mrs F wanted cover. 
I think its reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs F wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure it reflected their wishes. And I think its 
fair to say that by signing the completed application, which included a declaration that all the 
information on the form was correct, they were indicating they agreed with the information on 
the form. 
And Mr F also competed and signed a separate PPI application to take out the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage was a significant financial commitment and their home couldve 
been at risk if they hadnt been able to make the mortgage monthly repayments in full and on 
time. So I can understand that protecting the repayments wouldve been an important 
consideration for them at the time. Despite what Mr and Mrs F recall now, I think its more 
likely that after speaking with the advisors Mr and Mrs F decided they wanted to have the 
benefits that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy for Mr F. 
On balance, I think its likely that PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Fs account when, knowing it 
was up to Mr F to say if he wanted PPI or not, after indicating on the mortgage application  
he wanted the insurance Mr F then filled in a form to have it put on their account.
Newcastle Building Society says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr F. And even if 
Mr and Mrs F feel that the way the advisor sold them PPI amounted to recommending it to 
Mr F, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve been unsuitable  so this doesn't 
affect the outcome of their complaint. But Ive looked carefully at whether Newcastle Building 
Society gave Mr and Mrs F enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for them  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about whether that makes any 
overall difference to what happened.
Based on what Mr F told us about his circumstances at the time it appears that he couldve 
benefitted from the PPI. The policy wouldve covered the mortgage repayments and paid out 
for up to 24 months per claim if Mr F was unable to work as a result of accident or sickness. 
This couldve been a useful benefit in what mightve been difficult circumstances for 
Mr and Mrs F if hed needed to make a claim - especially as he told us his employer didnt 
offer any accident or sickness pay. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 24 months if Mr F lost his job and became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr F told us he wouldve been entitled to statutory redundancy pay. But this wouldnt have helped Mr and Mrs F if he was off work as a result of an accident or 
illness. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money Mr F mightve got if hed 
lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs F some additional financial security in those circumstances.
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs F say they couldve depended on family as 
guarantors for the mortgage. 
But relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable 
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
As the mortgage seems to have been based on Mr Fs earnings, I can see why 
Mr and Mrs F mightve felt it was important to protect his income. 
Looked at overall, it seems to me that PPI provided useful cover for Mr and Mrs F given their 
circumstances at the time and I can see why they mightve wanted to have the security and 
peace of mind that PPI offered them.
Its possible some of the information Newcastle Building Society gave Mr and Mrs F about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
There were some policy exclusions and limitations. 
But it doesnt look as if they applied to Mr Fs situation. So, I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out 
the PPI for Mr F. 
The policy offered Mr and Mrs F useful protection in their particular situation and Mr F 
couldve taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. 
So I dont think that having clearer information about the policy wouldve put them off buying 
it.  
Possibly there may have been failings in the way the cover was sold. But it appears to me 
that Mr and Mrs F chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover at the time  even if theyve forgotten this now. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr F wasnt eligible for the policy. It seems to have been 
affordable for Mr and Mrs F when they signed up to it. 
As it was a policy they paid for monthly, Mr F couldve cancelled the policy at any time 
without incurring any extra cost if he no longer wanted to pay for it. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs F have lost out as a result of anything that 
Newcastle Building Society did wrong.  
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman