DRN-3623873
The complaint
Mr D and Ms F complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim under
the extended travel insurance cover which forms part of their private medical insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms F have a private medical insurance policy. They paid an additional premium for
extended travel insurance which was also underwritten by AXA.
On 29 June 2020, Mr D travelled to a country Ill call R. He intended to travel on to a country
Ill call N and eventually return to the UK on 3 October 2020. At the time Mr D travelled, there
was Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advice in place against all but
essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Subsequently, on 4 July 2020, the FCDO announced travel corridors between the UK and
certain, specified countries. The travel corridors meant that travel to one of the listed
countries was exempt from FCDO advice against travel. R was included on the travel
corridor list.
Unfortunately, on 28 July 2020, Mr D became unwell and sought medical attention in R. He
was diagnosed with a collapsed lung and required surgery, which he underwent on 6 August
2020. On the same day, Ms F contacted AXA to make a claim for Mr Ds surgery and
medical expenses. On the following day, 7 August 2020, AXA turned down the claim. It said
that the travel policy specifically excluded any cover if a policyholder had travelled against
FCDO advice. As Mr D had travelled to R on 29 June 2020, when FCDO advice against all
but essential travel was still in place, AXA said Mr Ds expenses wouldnt be covered.
Mr D was discharged from hospital on 11 August 2020. His doctor told him that hed need an
X-ray in eight days time and a CT scan and consultation in a month. Ms F says Mr D was
told not to fly. Mr D travelled on by train to his family in N, where he underwent a further
consultation. Due to the findings of the consultation, Mr D required further surgery. So Ms F
called AXA on 1 September 2020 to confirm whether the costs of this surgery would be
covered. AXA told Ms F that itd already declined cover for the costs of surgery abroad. Mr D
underwent surgery on 9 September 2020.
Mr D and Ms F were unhappy with AXAs decision and they complained. AXA ultimately
maintained its decision to refuse to cover both medical expenses claims. It noted from the
claims documentation that Mr Ds trip had been intended to last 98 days. However, the policy
only provided cover for up to 65 days. So it said that not only was the claim not covered due
to Mr D travelling against FCDO advice, the policy was also void because the original trip
length exceeded the trip limit.
Remaining unhappy with AXAs stance, Mr D and Ms F asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He accepted
that strictly, Mr D had travelled against FCDO advice on 29 June 2020. But at the time he
became unwell, there was no longer FCDO advice in place against travel to R. He thought
the FCDO exclusion applied to claims which were caused by the reason for the issuance of
the FCDO guidance. So he didnt think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on this exclusion
clause.
And he accepted that the policy only covered trips which were up to 65 days in length. Mr
Ds planned trip wouldve exceeded this duration. But as Mr D had become unwell well within
the trip limit, he thought it would be fair for AXA to pay all of the medical expenses Mr D had
incurred within the 65-day period of cover, together with interest. This wouldve taken Mr Ds
cover up to broadly 2 September 2020  therefore excluding the surgery hed undergone in 
N.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought this complaint should be partly upheld. I said:
First, Id like to reassure both parties that whilst Ive summarised the background to this
complaint and the detailed submissions both parties have made, Ive carefully considered all
thats been said and provided. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each
point thats been made and neither do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what
I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr D and Ms Fs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AXA
treated them fairly.
The contract terms
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr D and Ms Fs policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with AXA. Its clear that AXA considered this claim in line with the
travel insurance add-on terms and conditions, while Ms F believes the claim should be
assessed under the private medical insurance cover. For completeness, I think AXA has
correctly considered the claim in line with the travel insurance cover. Thats because whilst I
agree that the private medical insurance policy does provide extended medical cover outside
of the UK; this only applies to claims a) where the treatment has been planned before a
policyholder travels abroad and b) where AXA has agreed the fee before a policyholder goes
abroad. In this case, Mr Ds treatment abroad wasnt planned nor was the fee pre-agreed 
with AXA. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to decline to cover the claim
under the private medical insurance policy.
Instead, AXA assessed the claim under the Travel Cover option, so Ive next turned to look
at the contract terms for that particular add-on. Section 1 sets out the Medical benefits
available under the travel policy. This says that AXA will provide the following cover:
We will pay expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred outside the insured members
home area if the insured member suffers illness or injury during the insured period outside
their home area, for the following:
What we will pay for:
(a) hospital, medical and treatment expenses
(b) up to the following amounts for emergency dental treatment for the immediate relief of
pain and the preservation of natural teeth but not subsequent restorative work
(c) additional accommodation and travelling expenses incurred as a direct consequence of
bodily injury sustained by the insured member or of unforeseen sickness of the insuredmember which has occurred while the insured member was on an overseas journey. We will
pay for accommodation and travel expenses of a similar standard to that originally booked
and paid for.
(d) charges in the event of the death of an insured member outside their home area, for 
burial or cremation in the locality where death occurs, up to a maximum of £2,000.
(e) additional accommodation and travelling expenses which are necessarily incurred by one
relative or one friend who is required, on written medical advice, to remain with an insured
member who has suffered injury or sickness as in (c) abovePlease note: We will pay for
accommodation and travel expenses of a similar standard to that originally booked and paid
for.
Section 1 Part B sets out the cover for International Emergency Medical Assistance. This
sets out what AXA means by the service and says:
The service (moving the insured member to another hospital which has the necessary
medical facilities either in the country where the insured member is taken ill or in another
nearby country (evacuation) or bringing them back to their home area (repatriation).
The policy explains that:
The service is available worldwide during the period of cover to any insured member who,
while abroad from the United Kingdom, is injured or becomes ill suddenly and needs
immediate hospital treatment as an in-patient. The service is only available in these
circumstances. The General Exclusions listed on page 23 and the exclusions listed in
Section 1A do not apply to the service. If the service is needed you must contact the alarm
centre so that immediate help or advice can be given over the phone. Arrangements may
then be made for an appointed doctor to see the insured member and to move him or her
back to their home area (repatriation) if necessary. If an appointed doctor thinks it is
necessary then the service will be carried out under medical supervision. 
In my view, the medical evidence clearly shows that Mr D became unwell abroad and
required emergency hospital treatment. On the face of things, he made a claim due to an
insured event which is covered by section 1 of the policy.
However, the policy also sets out a list of things AXA specifically excludes from cover. One
of these says:
We will not pay claims under any section caused by (emphasis added)
Travelling against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice
If, at the time of travelling, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office had advised against all
travel to that specific country or area, this exclusion will apply to all Sections, whatever your
reason for travel.
Mr D and Ms F held standard travel cover. And I note that the time limits set out in the policy
state that AXA will cover a maximum 65 days in total spent abroad, applying to a single
journey. Theres no dispute that at the time Mr D chose to travel to R, there was FCDO
advice in place against all but essential travel abroad. Theres also no dispute that Mr D
planned to spend broadly 98 days abroad, which was over 30 days longer than the trip limit
set out in the policy terms.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances?
AXA initially turned down Mr Ds claim for treatment in R because hed travelled againstFCDO advice on 29 June 2020. Ive thought about this carefully, given the exclusion Ive set
out above. Regardless of what AXAs intention was when drafting this clause though, I note
that the policy only excludes claims caused by travelling against FCDO advice. The FCDO
advice which had been issued in March 2020 and which still applied at the point Mr D
travelled was issued in respect of the risk presented by Covid-19. But Mr D didnt make a
claim which was caused by Covid-19 or because hed travelled against FCDO advice. His
claim was because hed suffered a collapsed lung. The medical evidence makes no
suggestion that this was because Mr D had contracted Covid-19 or that his lung condition
was a complication of it. So I dont think AXA has reasonably demonstrated that Mr Ds claim
was caused by travelling against FCDO advice.
Id add too that Mr D didnt need to make a claim while the FCDO advice was in place. At the
point he became ill, R was part of a travel corridor which was exempt from the FCDO advice
against travel. So I think this particular clause, which in my view, is intended to protect
insurers against claims which are specifically caused by a traveller not following FCDO
guidance, is immaterial to the overall circumstances of Mr Ds claim. This means then that I
dont think AXA has shown, on balance, that this exclusion clause defeats Mr Ds claim.
However, that doesnt mean that I think Mr Ds full claim should be covered. As Ive
explained above, the policy clearly sets out that AXA is only prepared to offer cover under Mr
Ds policy for 65 days of travel. But given it wouldve provided cover for a 65-day trip, I dont
find that any technical breach of the trip limit prejudices AXAs position in terms of a claim
which was first made well within the 65-day trip limit. I think its fair and reasonable for AXA
to step away from a strict contractual position here and consider some of the expenses
which were incurred within the relevant contract cover period. In my view, this currently
means that the medical expenses Mr D incurred in R should be treated as covered under the
policy terms and reassessed.
Our investigator thought that Mr Ds medical expenses up until day 65  broadly 2
September 2020  should be paid. Ive thought about this carefully. But I dont currently
agree. Thats because I can see that the discharge summary from the hospital in R shows
that the doctor recommended that Mr D needed a follow-up in eight days and a further
follow-up a month later. Theres no suggestion that Mr D wasnt fit to travel at all  simply
that he wasnt fit to fly. I note from AXAs initial surgery decline email on 7 August 2020, that
the assistance team did ask what assistance Mr D needed. Given Ms F had been told Mr D
wasnt covered and given Mr D was aware hed need to incur further medical costs, at least
in terms of scans and a consultation, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to look into
returning to the UK by land or sea, for follow-up either on the NHS or privately. While I can
understand why Mr D mightve wished to join his family in N, I dont think I could reasonably
find that AXA should automatically pay the medical expenses which Mr D incurred between
his discharge in R and 2 September 2020.
As Ive set out above, I dont think AXA has reasonably demonstrated that it was entitled to
rely on the FCDO exclusion to decline Mr Ds initial claim. So Ive thought about what
shouldve and is likely to have happened in the circumstances. I think that following Mr Ds
discharge from hospital, on the understanding that he was fit to travel other than by air, AXA
is most likely to have arranged to return Mr D to the UK and cover the costs under part B of
the travel policy, so that he could undergo the necessary follow-up checks and tests. So I
think it would always have had some liability for costs here.
In my view, a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular point would be for AXA to
calculate how much it wouldve cost to repatriate Mr D to the UK for treatment following his
discharge on 11 August 2020. It should then compare this amount against Mr Ds medical
expenses claim for costs he incurred in N up until the expiry of the 65-day trip limit. It can
then assess which cost is the lowest to it and should accordingly cover the lower of thosetwo options.
Overall, I currently dont think that AXA has treated Mr D and Ms F fairly. So I intend to tell
AXA to reconsider Mr Ds claim for all of the medical costs he incurred in R. And for it to
compare the cost of repatriating Mr D to the UK following his discharge on 11 August 2020
with the medical costs he incurred following that date up until the expiry of the 65-day limit. It
should then cover the lower of those costs.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or information that they 
wanted me to consider.
Mr D and Ms F felt that Mr Fs psychological disruption had never been taken into account.
AXA disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive set out its response to my provisional 
findings below:
Thank you for setting out the reasons behind the issuance of a provisional decision to
partially uphold Mr D and Ms Fs complaint. We have carefully considered your
comments contained within this decision, however, we still consider that Mr D is
not entitled to cover under our policy.
As we previously mentioned, under this policy we do not cover trips for travel against
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advice. You suggest that the FCDO advice
issued at the point Mr D travelled was in respect to the risk presented by Covid-19
and therefore Mr D collapsed lung was not caused by travelling to a country
advised against the FCDO. However, given the unprecedented nature of Covid-19, it is our 
position that it is premature to determine that Covid-19 could not be a contributing factor to 
the existence or the worsening of a separate health condition. In any event, there is no 
explicit link between the intention behind the FCDOs decision to advise against travelling to 
a particular country, and the medical situation under which a policyholder brings a claim. 
It is clear that the drafting of clause 5.4 is (purposely) wide and excludes all claims involving 
travelling to a country against the advice of the FCDO, regardless of the reason. You will 
appreciate there are many circumstances in which the FCDO may advise against travel, and 
risks related to such travel cannot all be factored in to a travel policy; hence it is reasonable 
for such risks to be excluded. For example, had Mr D become ill in a war zone, such illness 
may not have been caused by the war, but it would certainly significantly increase the risk 
profile for cover and the difficulty in administering the policy.
You also suggest that at the point Mr D became ill, R was exempt from the
FCDO advice against travel. However, the policy wording in clause 5.4 clearly states that the 
claim is excluded if at the time of travelling the FCDO had advised against all travel to that 
specific country. The FCDO had still been advising against travel to R on 29 June 2020, 
which is when Mr D decided to travel to R. As such, we consider that this
exemption clause applies.
In any event, the policy clearly states that coverage will not be provided for any single
overseas journey exceeding the 65-day trip limit. As Mr D, by his own admission,
planned his journey from 29 June to 3 October, we are entitled to deny cover in its entirety 
given that there is no wording in the policy to the effect of covering the claim up until the 65 
day period. It is the overall time planned abroad by the policyholder before travelling which is 
of relevant here in determining whether the claim is covered or not. This is how we have 
applied the time limit clause to all other policyholders, so for the purposes of consistency and 
fairness, we need to adhere to this strict contractual position.For the reasons set out above, we urge you to reconsider the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Mr D and Ms Fs complaint should be upheld in part and Ill 
explain why.
Its clear AXA feels strongly that the FCDO exclusion is drafted in such a way as to exclude 
all claims where a policyholder has travelled against FCDO advice  irrespective of the 
reason. Its stated that this exclusion is purposely wide and all-encompassing. For ease of 
reading, Ill re-state the relevant FCDO exclusion here:
We will not pay claims under any Section caused by:
5.4 Travelling against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice
If, at the time of travelling, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office had advised against all 
travel to that specific country or area, this exclusion will apply to all Sections, whatever your 
reason for travel.
I dont agree with AXAs interpretation of this clause as purposely wide. In my view, the 
inclusion of the words caused by are key in narrowing the scope of the exclusion to 
applying only to claims which are directly caused by a policyholders travel against FCDO 
advice. If AXAs intention was to exclude any and all claims where a policyholder had 
travelled against FCDO advice  regardless of the reason for the claim  then it was open to 
it to draft the contract terms in such a way as to make this clear. Instead, I think a 
reasonable person would interpret clause 5.4 as only excluding claims which were caused 
by a policyholder travelling against FCDO advice.
In this case, I accept Mr D did travel to R on 29 June 2020 despite there being FCDO advice 
against travel in place. Its common ground that the reason this particular FCDO guidance 
had been issued was because of Covid-19. So taking the plain and ordinary meaning of 
clause 5.4, I still think that in order for AXA to fairly rely on the FCDO exclusion clause to 
decline Mr Ds claim, it needs to show, on balance, that the claim arose because of Covid-
19.
AXA states that given the unprecedented nature of Covid-19, it seems premature to 
determine that it couldnt be a contributing factor to the existence or deterioration of an 
existing health condition. As I set out above, Ive carefully considered the available medical 
evidence to assess whether the medical professionals, who were treating Mr D and who 
were able to examine him at first hand, suggested that the collapsed lung he suffered was 
due to Covid-19 infection. 
Mr Ds diagnosis on admission was: Spontaneous complete right-sided pneumothorax. X-
rays and tests were carried out which confirmed this diagnosis. There is no mention of 
Covid-19 as either a direct or contributory cause of Mr Ds illness in any of the medical 
reports available to me. If the treating doctors had noted that Mr D was suffering from Covid-
19 or concluded that there was a link between that virus and Mr Ds presenting condition, Id 
have expected them to have noted this on the medical reports. Given theres no such finding 
though, I dont think AXA have shown, on balance, that Mr Ds illness was caused by Covid-
19.R had been made exempt from the FCDO advice against travel at the time Mr D became 
unwell. So while I accept he travelled against such advice initially, its difficult to see how 
AXAs ability to administer his policy was adversely affected at a time when R was on a 
green list and so it seems the FCDO had concluded it was broadly safe for UK nationals to 
travel there. While AXA has made a comparison with travel to a warzone, I dont think this is 
in any way a similar comparison or that the same sorts of risks would be likely to arise.
Overall then, I dont think AXA has shown it was reasonably entitled to rely on the FCDO 
exclusion to turn down Mr Ds claim.
AXA has also maintained its stance in relation to the 65-day trip limit. I acknowledge that Mr 
Ds original planned trip did last significantly longer than 65 days. And so on a strict 
interpretation of the policy, his claim isnt covered. 
But the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, our enabling legislation, provides me with 
powers under section 228 (2). This says that I must determine a complaint by what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. This power and 
duty is echoed in the regulators rules by which we must abide, found under DISP 3.6.1. This 
power allows me to step away from a strict interpretation of the contract if I feel its 
application produces an unfair result. 
In this case, Mr Ds illness occurred well within the 65-day trip limit. So while I accept there 
was a technical breach of the trip limit, it seems to me that it would be unfair to apply the 
policy terms strictly here. I say that because there is no prejudice to AXA in accepting and 
dealing with a part of a claim which falls within the part of a trip it wouldve covered. This is in 
line with the long-standing approach of this service. The award I outlined in my provisional 
decision limits AXAs costs and means that, depending on the cost comparison calculation, it 
wouldnt be liable for any costs which fell after day 65 of the trip. So I dont find that its 
position would be in any way worsened in this regard and it remains the case that I think this 
award is a fair and reasonable one.
I appreciate Ms F considers I havent taken into account Mr Ds psychological condition at 
the time of the claim. I do appreciate why Mr D wished to join his family in N and that this 
mustve been a worrying time. With that said, I do think hed been clearly told that any 
medical costs he incurred wouldnt be paid and he was aware that he needed follow-up care 
following his discharge from the hospital in R. So I still think its fair to say that bearing this in 
mind, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr D to return to the UK following his discharge from 
hospital to seek aftercare on the NHS or under his private medical cover if appropriate.
Overall, I still find that the fair and reasonable outcome in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint is for AXA to consider Mr Ds claim for all of the medical costs he incurred in R in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And for it to compare the cost of 
repatriating Mr D to the UK following his discharge on 11 August 2020 with the medical costs 
he incurred following that date up until the expiry of the 65-day limit. It must then cover the 
lower of those costs.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to AXA to reconsider Mr Ds claim for all of the
medical costs he incurred in R in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
And to compare the cost of repatriating Mr D to the UK following his discharge on 11 August
2020 with the medical costs he incurred following that date up until the expiry of the 65-day
limit. It should then cover the lower of those costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman