DRN-1610893
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
(MSFS) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection insurance ('PPI') policy in 
2003 when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mrs W complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2003 by completing a leaflet. 
She says she wasnt aware it had been added to her credit card account; but she also told 
us more recently a member of staff told her she wouldnt get the card unless she bought the 
PPI. She says she didnt need it as she was in a secure job and had savings. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs W's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether MSFS made it clear the policy was an optional product. MSFS 
produced a copy of Mrs W's store card application. I can see there was a separate section of 
the form headed Payment Protection Insurance. I can see Mrs W signed this section and 
entered her personal details and I noted she declined other offers on the form. So I think she 
completed the form diligently by choosing the products she wanted. I think her signature 
means MSFS probably made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs W was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so MSFS had to 
make sure Mrs W received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because she told us 
she had no savings and three to six months sick pay. So the PPI could have been useful if 
she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. 
MSFS should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I 
don't know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs W was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and Mrs 
W was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman