DRN-2313258
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited failed to give him enough information about all the 
options that were available to him when he was sold his annuities in 2008. He considers that 
other options, rather than an annuity, would have been more suitable for him.
What happened
Mr M was advised by a firm that ReAssure Limited subsequently took over, and Reassure 
Limited is now responsible for its advice. For ease, I will refer to the firm as ReAssure 
Limited throughout this decision.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint in her assessment that she sent to both parties on 11 
September 2020. 
In brief, Mr M had two personal pension policies with ReAssure. In 2008, when Mr M was in 
his late 50s, he contacted ReAssure and requested a retirement options pack. These were 
sent to him in early April 2008 and ReAssure received the returned signed application forms 
on 21 April 2008.
Following receipt of Mr Ms signed instruction, the funds relating to the non-protected rights 
policy were used to buy an annuity which started in April 2008. And the funds relating to the 
protected rights policy bought an annuity which started in May 2008.
Mr M considers the annuities werent the best option for him, as he now receives just £85 a 
month income in total from them both.
The investigator didnt think that ReAssure had given advice to Mr M. She noted that Mr M 
had requested details of his options and hed been sent a retirement option pack in April 
2008. The pack said the firm was unable to give you any financial advice. If you require 
advice we suggest you contact an Independent Financial Adviser to discuss the option that 
best suits your retirement needs. And the investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mr M had discussed his retirement options with ReAssure at the time.
The investigator said that although she thought the annuity had been arranged on a non-
advised basis, ReAssure was obliged to set out Mr Ms retirement options in the information 
that it sent to him. The investigators view was that the different annuity options were clearly 
set out in the retirement pack. And Mr M was clearly alerted that he could buy his pension 
with another provider through the OMO (Open Market Option). 
The investigator also noted that the retirement pack included the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) factsheet called Your pension  its time to choose. The fact sheet 
explained the retirement options such as the OMO, enhanced annuities and single/joint life 
annuities. It also explained some of the other options available. It said:
If you dont want a type of annuity mentioned earlier or if you decide to delay buying a 
lifetime annuity, there are a few other options you might consider.
She said the other options included investment-linked lifetime annuity, phased retirement 
and unsecured pension using income withdrawal or short-term annuities. The investigator 
thought there was enough information to make Mr M aware he had other options.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied ReAssure had given Mr M all the information it should 
have about his retirement options in 2008. So she didnt think that Mr Ms complaint should 
be upheld. 
Mr Ms representative said that Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. It said the firm 
should have made it very clear to Mr M that the purchasing power of the level income from 
the annuities would reduce drastically over time. It said if it had been made clear, he would 
have explored other options which were more beneficial to him and his family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Reassure provided advice to Mr M; the evidence 
suggests that Mr M requested information about his retirement options, information was sent 
to him, and Mr M made his decision based on that information.
The investigator set out the documents and information that had been sent to Mr M, and Im 
satisfied that ReAssure met its obligations at the time. In my view the information it provided 
was clear, fair and not misleading. And it ought reasonably to have alerted Mr M that he had 
other options available. 
Mr Ms representative has said Reassure should have made it very clear that the purchasing 
power of a level income annuity would reduce over time. 
The information provided by ReAssure did explain that Mr M could buy an annuity that would 
increase each year, as well as the level annuity that he bought. I accept that it could have 
explained the effect of inflation would reduce the purchasing power of the income over time. 
However, the annuities that Mr M could have bought that increased each year started off at 
much lower levels than the level annuity bought by Mr M. To date, Mr M has received a 
significantly higher income in total than if hed opted for an annuity that increased in 
payment. And given the relatively modest amounts payable, I think the higher starting 
income would likely have appeared more attractive than waiting a number of years before an 
increasing annuity reached the same level. 
There were advantages and disadvantages with the different annuity options available. But 
in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr M made a poor choice. And Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that Mr M would more likely than not have opted to buy an annuity that 
increased in payment if hed been warned about the reducing purchasing power of a level 
annuity over time.
 My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman