DRN-3115586
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his 
claim on his after the event (ATE) insurance policy. He believes DAS caused him to have to 
accept a lower settlement offer compared to what he otherwise could have achieved. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr C had an ongoing claim in relation to a dispute with a third party who hed previously 
contracted with in relation to a major home refurbishment project. He had an existing claim 
under a before the event insurance policy. Mr C had a solicitor B acting for him. 
In 2018 Mr C applied for an ATE insurance policy to cover himself for disbursements and 
adverse costs. A policy was agreed and terms of appointment were signed between B and 
DAS. In November 2018 DAS agreed to increase the limit of indemnity of the ATE policy and 
proceedings were served. At that time DAS advised B that offers from the third party in the 
range of £400,000 to £500,000 could be rejected without needing to refer to them. 
In October 2019, DAS requested an update from B as to the current position of the claim 
including an up to date assessment of the prospects of success. B confirmed that prospects 
remained at 60% but that this hadnt been reviewed since proceedings had started. They 
said a further assessment of the overall merits was appropriate. 
In November 2019 counsels opinion on the claim was sent to DAS. It concluded that Mr C 
should accept a Part 36 offer that had previously been made of £350,000 plus costs. B 
asked that they be granted some time to try to improve upon that offer, prior to accepting it. 
Despite this meaning DAS would be liable for further adverse costs, they agreed to this. 
Around this time Mr C had also received counsels opinion. He raised concerns about this 
and Bs conduct with DAS. Mr C went on to accept the offer in late November 2019. He 
didnt want to risk trying to seek a better offer for fear that the original offer (which had 
already expired) would be withdrawn. This meant that DAS fee (under the ATE policy) of 
around £100,000 became due. 
Mr C complained to DAS. He was unhappy with how his claim had been handled and how it 
was brought to a conclusion. DAS didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt agree theyd 
acted inappropriately. Mr C referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary she thought it was fair 
for DAS to rely on the legal opinions about whether or not the offer ought to be accepted. 
She also said that DAS werent responsible for the actions of B. She wasnt persuaded to 
change her outcome following Mr C submitting further comments. As such, Mr C has asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I dont doubt that the wider circumstances of this complaint and the associated legal action 
(which has gone on for some time) has had quite an impact on Mr C. So, I understand my 
outcome will be disappointing.
Mr C has made considerable submissions when bringing his complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So, if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Id also like to echo what our investigator has said about any of the legal professionals 
involved. I cant comment on the actions of B. I understand that Mr C has raised a separate 
complaint with the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr Cs policy includes the requirement that for cover to remain in place the underlying legal 
dispute must have prospects of success. Specifically, the policy says: We and the 
appointed representative must agree that the likelihood of you winning the legal action is at 
least 60% both at the start of the period of insurance and where relevant, prior to issuing 
court proceedings. During the legal action if we and the appointed representative agree that 
it is more likely than not that you will lose i.e. 50% or below, as a result of deterioration in 
legal merits the period of insurance will end.
There are further relevant terms which state:
You must instruct the appointed representative to obtain written consent from us before 
rejecting any reasonable written offer of settlement of the legal action
And under the heading of What is not covered it says:
No claim will be paid by us forIncreased disbursements and opponents costs if you fail to 
follow the advice of, provide instructions promptly or to co-operate with the appointed 
representative.
Terms such as these are common to this type of insurance and I dont think the above terms 
are inherently unfair. A privately paying client wouldnt generally continue funding legal 
action if advised they were unlikely to achieve a positive outcome. So, I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. And I think it is reasonable for an insurer to limit cover if the insured 
wont follow the legal advice or co-operate with an appointed representative. 
DAS themselves arent legal experts. So, I think it is fair for them to rely on a suitably 
qualified legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could notice this. 
In this case, Ive seen counsels written opinion from November 2019. Im satisfied its author 
is suitably qualified and I dont consider it to be obviously wrong. Counsels opinion is clearly 
reasoned and isnt ambiguous. Part of the advice says:
I have no hesitation in recommending that the offer of £350,000 is accepted as soon as 
possible as our costs will now be running at our risk I understand that it is proposed to try 
and arrange a meeting to negotiate a settlement. If that is possible and if any improvement 
on £350,000 can be achieved that would be an excellent result. If however that is not possible then I advise that the offer of £350,000 is accepted as soon as possible and in all 
the circumstances this should be considered a very good result.
DAS took this advice into consideration and allowed a further period for B to attempt to 
negotiate an improved settlement. However, Mr C instructed B that the offer should be 
accepted before any negotiation took place. I dont think DAS have acted outside the terms 
of the policy or unfairly. Its clear that the legal advice thought the offer was reasonable and 
that it ought to be accepted, but also that there might be some merit in trying to negotiate a 
further improvement on it. DAS accepted this and agreed, even though any time that went by 
would potentially result in increased adverse costs being payable. I think this is fair. 
Mr C has sought clarification as to who sought the further counsels opinion in November 
2019. But I dont think I need to determine this to decide this complaint. Prior to it being 
instructed DAS were informed that B would discuss the merits with Mr C and counsel before 
progressing. I understand Mr C wasnt then consulted with, but I dont think DAS reasonably 
could have known this at the time. Ultimately, counsel provided an opinion and I think it is 
fair for DAS to rely on that when making a decision about the claim. And the decision they 
made was more favourable to Mr C than ended up being required. They afforded an 
opportunity to try to increase the offer, something Mr C ultimately didnt instruct B to take up. 
Mr C has also referenced that early in the claim DAS said that offers of between £400,000 
and £500,000 could be declined without reference to them. I agree that was said. But I dont 
agree it was binding on DAS to not review this. Its common that as a claim progresses, the 
prospects might change. And I dont agree DAS allowing the more recent legal opinion to 
influence their decision means they havent treated Mr C fairly. 
Mr C believes that seeking an update from counsel wasnt necessary at that time. He thinks 
this was done against his interests and that DAS failed to properly manage a conflict of 
interests. Part of Mr Cs submissions say: the opinion (and indeed the assessment by [B]) 
obtained with a view to reducing the cover threshold was unfair and tainted ab initio because 
of the conflict at the outset between myself and DAS, such that it should not have been 
communicated to the Insurer or was void. In the absence of these communications the 
threshold and funding would have remained in place and so the best expected value of the 
claim would have remained £550,000.
I cant comment on whether B were right to share counsels opinion with DAS. Its highly 
likely they were required to do so by the terms of appointment theyd signed. But if doing so 
caused them to be conflicted, this would be something for B to manage. I accept that DAS 
have obligations under FCA principles and ICOBS to treat Mr C fairly and to act in his best 
interests, as well as to fairly manage a conflict of interests. 
But I dont think its unreasonable, particularly with the sums involved here, for DAS to 
monitor the legal action as it develops and to ask for regular updates from the legal 
professionals involved. Its standard industry practice for an insurer to keep a claim under 
review as it progresses. And the policy terms say that if at any time the chances of success 
fall below 50% cover will end. Its reasonable for DAS to review prospects at any point. It 
could have been that on assessment of the information, counsel concluded the claim had 
previously been significantly undervalued. And it might have been that a recommendation to 
pursue a higher settlement could have been put forward. 
It isnt unfair for DAS to seek this information and to then act upon receipt of it. And I dont 
agree that seeking a further opinion from counsel was either treating Mr C unfairly or acting 
against his interests. There will often be the perception of a potential conflict between an 
insurer and an insured. But this is why I think it is fair for DAS to rely on legal opinions to 
inform their decisions. It means that rather than being based on DAS own opinions (which they may not be qualified to form in legal matters) there is a degree of independence. Legal 
professionals are required to give their opinions honestly and without bias. 
For completeness Ive considered both the case law that Mr C has referred to and a report 
he submitted which refers to conflicts of interest between an insurer and legal professionals 
where legal expenses insurance is concerned. But I maintain that it was fair for DAS to rely 
on an independent legal opinion to inform their decisions about a claim. 
Ultimately, I dont think DAS have acted unfairly or poorly handled this claim. So it follows 
that Im not going to direct that they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman