DRN-3172219
The complaint
  
What happened
Ms G said that Citibank had changed how it makes payments in euros. It used to make 
payments within the EEA as SEPA transfers. Those dont usually carry any fee. But it made 
a number of changes as part of the UK leaving the EU. And as part of those, it now makes 
euro payments using SWIFT. Those transfers do involve charges, and because intermediary 
banks can make a charge for the transfer as they pass it on to its final destination, Citibank 
has told Ms G that it cant tell her in advance how much the fee will be.
Ms G said that Citibank gave her less than a weeks notice of the change, and its 
communications were misleading, because they suggested that transfers from the UK to 
banks within the EEA would still be free.
Ms G has a euro denominated account with Citibank, and she wants to transfer her money 
to an EEA country. Ms G said she had now been prevented from doing this for well over a 
year, and she had all the inconvenience of pursuing this complaint. She thought that Citibank 
should cover the costs of one transfer, and it should pay significantly more compensation 
than it had offered to date.
Citibank didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint about the fees to be applied to her transfer. It said it 
couldnt tell her how much the fees for any transfer would be, in advance. And it said that it 
had notified her about these changes, through an email dated 6 September 2019. 
Citibank sent us a booklet covering its rates and charges. That sets out that SWIFT transfers 
will be free, but then further down on the same page, it says that 
You and we will not be responsible for any charges imposed by the beneficiary bank 
or their intermediary (Cover or correspondent) bank. 
Citibank also shared the email it sent out to advise its customers of this change. That 
explained payments were changing from SEPA to SWIFT, but didnt say anything about 
charges.
Citibank offered Ms G £100, and then a further €50, to make up for how it had handled her 
complaint. Ms G has turned down the first of these offers, because of the conditions 
attached. She said shed accepted the second offer, but hadnt received the money. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Citibank isnt in 
control of the charges which are applied once a SWIFT transfer leaves it. And thats why it 
cant set out these costs for Ms G. But our investigator thought that Citibank had told Ms G 
about the upcoming changes, when it said -
Following the Citi UK Transfer, you will no longer be able to make Euro-dominated 
payments using SEPA, instead all Euro-denominated payments will be sent using 
SWIFT from 16 September 2019.
And our investigator said Citibank had provided correct information about payment fees, 
including setting out that it will not be responsible for any fees charged by intermediaries.
Our investigator didnt think that Citibank had to offer Ms G a fee-free transfer, and she 
thought its previous offers provided a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Ms G didnt agree. She said that her complaint wasnt that Citibank didnt notify her of the 
change from SEPA to SWIFT, but that it didnt explain what the change would mean. It had 
told her that transfers would continue to be free of charge, which is not the case.
Ms G also said she hadnt received any of the compensation that Citibank had offered.
Our investigator referred to an email sent on 9 September 2019 which said that in future 
 the fee for sending Euro payments using SWIFT within the UK and EEA will be
the same as or less than the fee currently charged for sending Euro payments using
SEPA. There will continue to be no fee for sending Euro payments using SWIFT
within the UK and EEA when using [specified payment methods]
But Ms G said that the transfer she wanted to make was within the EEA. This email had told
her shed pay the same for a SWIFT transfer as she had previously for a SEPA transfer, and
that wasnt true. Ms G wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I think that the email Ms G has shared with us does suggest very strongly indeed that 
the cost of transfers from a Citibank account in the UK to an EEA state would not 
change after 13 September. Ms G now knows that isnt the case. She is concerned 
about agreeing to a make a large transfer, when she doesnt know how much these 
costs might be, and Citibank says it cant tell her in advance how much this would 
cost her.
I understand Citibank cant predict the charges that may be applied by intermediary 
banks, and I dont think it has to give Ms G this information. It doesnt have it.
Its clear that Ms G is worried about agreeing to charges, without any way of knowing 
what they might be. Like our investigator, I would not expect those charges to be 
large, but I appreciate Ms Gs concern here.
SEPA payments to the state Ms G is sending money to, would usually have been 
free. And I do think that Citibank gave Ms G to understand that charges would not 
change, with the change from SEPA payments to SWIFT payments.
For that reason, I think that Citibank should provide Ms G with the opportunity she 
has requested, to transfer funds to her EEA account, without fees. It should cover 
any intermediary bank costs incurred, in one transfer from Ms Gs Citibank UK 
account, to an EEA account of her choice, provided that this transfer is made solely 
in euros, and is made within the time limits I set out in my decision.
Ms G should arrange this transfer within two calendar months of the date that she 
accepts my final decision in this case. And Ms G should then provide to Citibank, 
evidence of the amount received in the account with the other EEA bank, in euros, within one calendar month. Citibank should then reimburse Ms G the difference, in 
euros, between the amount sent and the amount received, within one calendar 
month.
I think that, plus the compensation that Citibank has already offered Ms G, would 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So Ill also require Citibank 
to pay Ms G the sums of £100 and of €50, in compensation, if it hasnt done so 
already.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G replied to say she wanted to accept my provisional decision, and said she was pleased 
that I had understood the complaint against Citibank.
Citibank replied to say that it had reviewed the provisional decision and would like to raise 
some further points. It said that having reviewed what it had sent to our service, it wanted to 
apologise, as some information hadnt been included. 
Citibank said it was sending us further communications it had sent to Ms G, along with proof 
that these emails were opened. It attached a number of additional documents.
Citibank has shared with us a list of rates and charges, which sets out that Euro SWIFT 
transfers will incur no fee. As I set out in my provisional decision, this document then says -
You and we will not be responsible for any charges imposed by the beneficiary bank 
or their intermediary (cover or correspondent) bank.
For the avoidance of doubt, I accept that the detail of Citibanks terms and conditions tells its 
customers that, whilst it will not charge for SWIFT transfers, it couldnt guarantee that 
charges wouldnt be applied by intermediary banks. 
But that isnt the core issue here. Its not been suggested that Citibank is breaching its own 
terms by allowing intermediary banks to apply charges to any SWIFT transfer. 
The issue here is whether the emails that Citibank sent Ms G alerted her to how the change 
to transfers would affect her. 
Citibank also sent us a number of items of internal mail that it circulated around September 
2019, when the changes which ended SEPA payments from the bank took effect. Those do 
mention the changes from paying using SEPA to paying using SWIFT. But they dont 
mention that this also changes the underlying position for people who are making payments 
in the EEA. 
I set out my understanding of this underlying position in my provisional decision - that SEPA 
payments wouldnt usually have incurred any fees, including charges applied by intermediary 
banks. But SWIFT payments often do incur charges applied by intermediary banks. 
So, whilst the change that Citibank was making in September 2019 wouldnt mean that it 
would charge Ms G fees for her transfers, it did mean that she could no longer rely on 
making those transfers without paying a fee to any intermediary bank. And, having reviewed both the emails sent to Ms G and the internal emails that Citibank 
circulated explaining the change, I havent seen anything from September 2019 which 
explains that the change from SEPA to SWIFT payment meant Ms G would shortly stop 
being able to make transfers without any fee. On the contrary, I still think that the email Ms G 
has shown us would reasonably lead her to believe that nothing was going to change.
That means I still think Ms G was given a reassurance that there would be no change, which 
unfortunately didnt take account of charges which would soon be applied by intermediaries. 
So, although I do think Citibank is acting within its current terms when transfers are made, 
and intermediary banks apply charges, thats not the issue here. The issue is that Ms G 
couldnt have predicted, from the email Citibank sent her, that the underlying position was 
going to change. Her transfers before had been free. Now they are not.
Because of that, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
Putting things right
Citibank must provide Ms G with the opportunity to transfer funds to her EEA account, 
without fees. It must cover any intermediary bank costs incurred, in one transfer from Ms Gs 
Citibank UK account, to an EEA account of her choice, provided that this transfer is made 
solely in euros, and is made within the time limits I set out here.
Ms G should arrange this transfer within two calendar months of the date that she accepts 
my final decision in this case. And Ms G should then provide to Citibank, evidence of the 
amount received in the account with the other EEA bank, in euros, within one calendar 
month. Citibank should then reimburse Ms G the difference, in euros, between the amount 
sent and the amount received, within one calendar month.
Citibank must also pay Ms G £100 and of €50, in compensation, if it hasnt done so already.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Citibank UK Limited must refund the fees from one transfer, in line 
with my decision above. And it must pay Ms G £100 and €50 in compensation, if it hasnt 
already done so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman