DRN-3693574
The complaint
Mrs K, through her representative, says that Morses Club PLC lent to her when she could 
not afford to repay the loans. 
What happened
Using information from Mrs K and from Morses, the loan table I have set out below has five 
loans on it. But Morses provided us with information for four loans. 
We have asked Mrs K to provide details of that first loan from 2015 (loan A). Nothing was 
received from her about that loan. I have included it in the loan table for completeness. 
However, the CMC who presented us with the list of five loans has shown in its own loan 
table that Loan A has a different account number to the four approved in 2019 and 2020. We 
do not know the reason for that. So, we are not sure that Loan A relates to Mrs K. 
Morses has said  if there is any documentation missing from loans which were issued 
within the last 6 years, you can presume we are unable to locate this information. 
Loan Account 
OpenedOpening Balance End Date Current 
Status
A 23/11/2015 £300.00 27/02/2016 Settled/closed
Almost a three year gap in lending
1 29/11/2019 £100 capital plus £54 finance charge  
total £154.0005/10/2020 Settled/closed
2 14/02/2020 £200 capital plus £140 finance charge 
total: £340.0021/12/2020 Settled/closed
3 11/11/2020 £200 capital plus finance charge of 
£140 
Total £340.00With a DCA Account has 
defaulted
4 21/12/2020 £300 capital plus finance charge 
£256.50 
total £556.50With a  DCA Account has 
defaulted
DCA refers to Debt Collection Agency. 
After Mrs Ks representative had referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, then it was reviewed and an indication was given to Morses as to our view. Our 
adjudicator told Morses that he thought that loans 3 and 4 ought not to have been approved 
for Mrs K.  
Morses responded to say that it agreed with that outcome and was willing to resolve the 
complaint and outlined the redress. There was one spelling mistake in that offer email which 
I have corrected. A 3 ought to have been a £. 
The customer currently holds an outstanding balance of £691.45, they havent made 
any repayments towards the interest balances (£396.50) and therefore these will be 
removed leaving outstanding capital owing of £205.05.
Our adjudicator wrote to Mrs Ks representative and explained that this was fair and that 
Morses was agreeing with his review of the complaint.
Mrs K replied to say that shed be happy to go with what ever offer is best. But then went on 
to add that at the time she did not think the checks were good enough by Morses. She was 
drowning in debt and she feels that she was taken advantage of by Morses when she was at 
her most vulnerable. She says shed like all of her money back. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs K could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Ks 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mrs K. These factors include:
Mrs K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs K. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Mrs K.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs K could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs K was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ks complaint.
Loan A
As has already been mentioned in the what happened part of the decision, we are not even 
clear that Loan A was Mrs Ks loan as it was presented to us by her representative and had 
a different account number to loans 1 to 4. But proceeding on the basis it was one that Mrs K 
took then we have no information from either Morses or Mrs K over and above what appears 
on the loan table I placed at the very beginning of the decision. Morses FRL does not refer 
to it. And it has no information on it.
So, on Loan A I cannot really make any findings about it.
Loans 3 and 4
Morses has agreed with our adjudicators view that it ought not to have lent to Mrs K for 
loans 3 and 4. So I do not need to revisit the complaint for loans 3 and 4 as Morses has 
agreed to that part being upheld. 
The redress figures will have to be recalculated to bring them up-to-date, but essentially 
Morses has followed the Financial Ombudsmans usual approach. Mrs K is represented and 
I am sure that her representative can explain it to her. Essentially, the unpaid interest and 
charges for loans 3 and 4 will be removed but its right that Mrs K repays to Morses any of 
the capital sum it lent to her. So, the figure to pay will be around £205. 
Ive gathered from Mrs Ks recent response that shed like all of her money back which 
suggests to me that shes expecting the capital repayments to be returned to her too. 
But I have no reason to make a decision which is contrary to the Financial Ombudsmans 
usual approach. Its rare that we direct that the capital paid be refunded or that capital sums 
still to be repaid are written off. I appreciate that Mrs K has said she and her family have 
experienced difficult times recently but Ive no grounds to direct that all of the money be 
repaid to her. Mrs K had the benefit of the capital sums from Loans 3 and 4 and so its right 
that she repays those sums to Morses. 
Loans 1 and 2
Mrs K seems discontent with the fact that our adjudicator did not uphold loans 1 and 2 as 
well. So, I have reviewed them.
Morses carried out proportionate checks. Mrs K was a new customer when she applied for 
loan 1. If Loan A was a loan Mrs K had taken in 2015, it was paid off almost three years 
before Mrs K applied for loan 1. And so Id not be inclined to count it as a loan which was all 
part of the same lending chain. So, it would not make a difference to my decision in relation 
to loan 1 if Loan A was established to have been hers. 
Information Morses has sent to us relates to the income and expenditure assessment it 
carried out using the information Mrs K had given it. This is set out here in this small table for 
loans 1 and 2. 
INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
£295.00 £188.50 £106.50
£310.70 £211.00 £99.70The repayments for Loan 1 was to be £7 a week and for loan 2 £10 a week. I note that 
loan 2 overlapped with loan 1 for several months and so Mrs K would have been due to 
repay £17 a week for some months. 
Still I consider that the information Morses had, showed that Mrs K could afford the loans. 
I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint about loans 1 and 2.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs K at loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs K may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs K loans 3 and 4. 
I understand that these loans were passed to a DCA and so Morses needs to bring those 
loans back in-house and do as I have outlined below. I appreciate that Morses has already 
agreed to do this but for Mrs Ks benefit and for clarity I have set out here our usual 
approach for the redress for upholds on unpaid loans. .
A) Morses should remove any unpaid interest and charges for loans 3 and 4. It should add 
together the total of the repayments made by Mrs K towards interest, fees and charges on 
these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs K 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses is entitled to set off any monies arising from the redress against any monies Mrs K  
may owe it, but to be clear this should only be in respect of the principal sum borrowed for 
loans 3 and 4. Any unpaid charges and interest would need to be removed first and any 
payments made to either loan treated as if Mrs K had paid down the principal. D) Morses should remove from Mrs Ks credit file any adverse payment information about 
loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman