DRN-3565942
The complaint
Ms H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the credit card in the early 1990s. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence I have seen and on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
HSBC no longer has any documentation from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place.
Ms H says she was told that shed have more chance of getting the credit card account if 
she agreed to buy PPI.
I have no doubt that Ms H has provided her genuine recollection of events. However, the 
sale was a long time ago and so it also wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded 
somewhat. 
From what we know of HSBCs sales process at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. On balance Im unable to conclude that Ms H wasnt given a 
choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to buy it, knowing that 
she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if this was an advised sale or not. If HSBC did advise Ms H to buy the policy, 
then it needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Ms Hs 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for her.
Ms H would have received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially longer than Ms H would have received full pay 
for. She has told us that she had some savings. But having the PPI would have meant that 
she could retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been 
a difficult time. Ms H says her husband would have helped, but the household budget would 
have been stretched if Ms H wasnt working and so having the PPI could have helped.
Ms H says she later made a claim on the policy for unemployment, which was declined. 
From the information she has provided, it seems that she got made redundant when working 
abroad and the policy did not provide cover for non-UK residents. However, whether or not 
her claim was correctly declined or not is a different issue to whether the PPI was originally 
mis-sold to Ms H. Ms H was living in the UK when she was sold the policy and therefore she 
was eligible for it at that time. Overall, Im satisfied that the policy was suitable for Ms H and 
therefore it was reasonable if HSBC recommended it to her.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Ms H had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her 
mind.
This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H. But 
HSBC has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because:
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms H about that. 
Because HSBC didnt tell Ms H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should pay that redress now if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman