DRN-3426047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about their mortgage with Paratus AMC Limited trading as 
Foundation Home Loans. They say it has added excessive legal fees to their balance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out an interest only mortgage with Foundations predecessor company in 
2005. The mortgage was over a 25 year term, and they borrowed £323,000. The balance is 
now over £350,000 with less than ten years of the term to go. Mr and Mrs O are in their 
sixties.
In 2020, Mr Os income was impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, and they took a 
payment deferral. Towards the end of 2020, Mr O suffered an accident and had to give up 
work altogether. Mrs O was herself unwell and off work at this time, and also had to start 
caring for Mr O.
Mr and Mrs O asked their son-in-law to liaise with Foundation on their behalf. They say he 
offered to pay a nominal sum in full and final settlement of the outstanding balance, in view 
of Mr and Mrs Os circumstances. They say their son-in-law told them Foundation had 
accepted that offer, and they stopped making payments from January 2021 on his advice. 
In fact, Foundation had not accepted a settlement offer. It wrote to Mr and Mrs O several 
times to warn them the mortgage was going into arrears and asking them to discuss 
payment. Mr O says he didnt see those letters because of his condition and because he 
was in and out of hospital. And Mrs O accepted the advice of their son-in-law that they no 
longer had to make any payments.
When it didnt hear from Mr and Mrs O and payments were still not being received, 
Foundation instructed solicitors to begin possession proceedings. In May 2021 Mr O says he 
received a letter from the solicitors  which was the first time he learned what had been 
going on with the mortgage. At the beginning of June, he got in touch with Foundation 
himself to resolve things.
Foundation says that Mr and Mrs O had authorised their son-in-law to act on their behalf. In 
December 2020 he sent a cheque to Foundation for £10, endorsed with the words Banking 
this cheque means it is accepted as full and final settlement of the debt with mortgage 
account number [Mr and Mrs Os account number].
Foundation said that this did not mean that it accepted £10 in settlement of their mortgage, 
and the mortgage remained outstanding and Mr and Mrs O had an ongoing obligation to pay 
it. It had written to Mr and Mrs O and their son-in-law explaining that. But their son-in-law 
had written back threatening legal action, and asking for the matter to be referred to 
Foundations lawyers. As there was a threat of legal action against Foundation, it referred 
things to its solicitors. The solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs O and their son-in-law restating that 
the mortgage was not settled and that they did not believe a court would agree it was. It 
advised them to get their own legal advice before taking things further.
Foundation also told Mr and Mrs O by letter that their mortgage was in arrears and needed 
to be brought up to date. Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law again wrote to Foundation saying that 
the mortgage had been settled and if Foundation did not recognise that, they would take 
legal action against it.
As payment was still not being made, and Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law continued to assert 
that the mortgage had been settled, Foundation instructed its solicitors to start repossession 
action against Mr and Mrs O.
In June 2021, Mr O contacted Foundation to remove authority for their son-in-law to speak 
on their behalf. He asked Foundation to consider things again. He provided income and 
expenditure information and medical evidence about his and Mrs Os conditions. As a result, 
Foundation agreed to withdraw the possession proceedings on the basis that Mr and Mrs O 
paid £50 a month for the next three months. This was a temporary arrangement to give 
Mr and Mrs O some breathing space, and a more long-term arrangement would then need to 
be agreed.
The proceedings were adjourned, and Mr and Mrs O did start making payments again. But 
Foundation added its costs of dealing with this situation to the mortgage balance.
Mr and Mrs O complain that Foundation has added around £20,000 of legal costs to the 
mortgage balance. They say that if there is a dispute, its about whether or not there was a 
contract between Foundation and their son-in-law to accept full and final settlement and any 
legal costs arising out of that are a matter between Foundation and their son-in-law; 
Mr and Mrs O are not responsible for them. They say Mrs O wrote to Foundation in February 
and March 2021, when she received its letters, to say that she understood the mortgage had 
been settled and they no longer needed to pay anything  but Foundation never replied.
Mr and Mrs O say Foundation didnt warn them it was going to add legal fees to the 
mortgage, and that it any case it wasnt reasonable for it to instruct external solicitors rather 
than using its own staff or legal department. Had it written to Mr and Mrs O saying that it had 
not agreed to settle the mortgage, none of this would have happened.
Mr and Mrs O also dont agree that Foundation is entitled to add its costs to the mortgage 
balance under the terms and conditions. And as no proceedings were ever issued, there was 
no need to add legal costs. They also say that in any event the amount of the costs is 
unreasonable and disproportionate, and Foundation ran up costs by asking the solicitors to 
do work  such as reply to letters  it should have done itself. They suspect that Foundation 
and the solicitors are colluding to inflate costs and defraud borrowers. And they say as a 
matter of law pre-action costs are not recoverable from the other party, so Foundation has 
no right to expect them to cover its costs.
Mr and Mrs O want Foundation to remove the legal costs from their mortgage balance to 
settle this complaint.
Foundation said that it had been threatened with legal action saying that a debt of £350,000 
was no longer recoverable. It had to take that seriously, and it was reasonable to instruct its 
solicitors to deal with that threat. Mr and Mrs O had authorised their son-in-law to speak on 
their behalf, but they were ultimately responsible for what was being done on their mortgage 
in their name. It said it was reasonable to begin possession proceedings when no payment 
had been made, it was told no more payments would be made, and the arrears were 
growing. It said the legal costs incurred were reasonable in the circumstances, and it was 
entitled to add them to the mortgage balance.Foundation said that it knew nothing of Mr and Mrs Os health concerns until Mr O got in 
touch in June 2020; before then, all it knew was that Mr and Mrs O were disputing whether 
they still owed anything and refusing to make payments. If it had known sooner, it might 
have thought again about whether to start possession proceedings  but it couldnt act on 
information it didnt have. And ultimately it was up to Mr and Mrs O to manage their 
mortgage and to discuss things with Foundation if they couldnt.
However, Foundation said that in recognition of the circumstances, and because 
Mr and Mrs O were no longer suggesting the mortgage had been settled, it would reduce the 
legal fees by £5,000.
Our investigator didnt think Foundation had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs O asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. I said:
Im sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Os very difficult personal circumstances, and 
everything theyve been through. Id like to reassure them Ive taken full account of 
that in deciding the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint.
I can understand why, in late 2020, Mr and Mrs O felt unable to manage things 
themselves and asked their son-in-law to deal with the mortgage on their behalf. This 
was around the time of Mr Os serious accident, and Mrs O was herself unwell but 
having to care for Mr O.
So Im sure they were very grateful when he offered to help them manage things. 
Mr and Mrs O signed an authority authorising their son-in-law to speak on their behalf 
and liaise with their lender.
That means that their son-in-law was acting for them and on their behalf, and as their 
agent. They are still responsible for this mortgage and the outstanding debt, and are 
also responsible for everything their son-in-law said and did on their behalf.
Unfortunately, their son-in-law chose not to help them by explaining their situation to 
Foundation and seeing whether there was anything Foundation could do to help 
them. 
Instead, he decided to pursue a spurious and legally hopeless argument. He sent 
Foundation a cheque for £10, and said that by cashing it Foundation would be 
accepting it in settlement of the entire mortgage debt.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs O were aware of what was going on at that point  if their 
son-in-law explained exactly what he was doing, or just reassured them that 
everything was under control.
The sad fact was that in fact things werent under control. Instead of helping them at 
a very difficult time, their son-in-law had made things immeasurably worse for Mr and 
Mrs O.
Ultimately, though, even if in fact Mr and Mrs O didnt know what he was doing, they 
had appointed him to act on their behalf as their agent. As a matter of law, they are 
responsible for what he did in their name. If he acted beyond their knowledge or 
agreement, that  and the consequences of it  is something they will need to take up with him. It seems his hopeless and misguided actions have cost Mr and Mrs O a 
lot of money and a great deal of upset.
But theres nothing I can do about that. I have no jurisdiction over Mr and Mrs Os 
son-in-law. All I can consider in this decision is whether Foundation have treated 
them fairly in all the circumstances.
As I say, Mr and Mrs O authorised their son-in-law to deal with Foundation on their 
behalf. Foundation had no way of knowing whether or not Mr and Mrs O knew what 
was going on. But it did take steps to make sure that they did. Even though they had 
asked it to do so, it didnt just deal with their son-in-law  it also sent all 
correspondence to Mr and Mrs O directly, both correspondence rejecting his claim 
that the mortgage had been settled, and correspondence warning them of the 
consequences of the mortgage not being paid.
It seems that because of his health concerns Mr O didnt see any of this 
correspondence. And Mrs O was reassured by her son-in-law that there was nothing 
to worry about, so took no action other than writing to Foundation saying she 
believed the mortgage had been settled.
But even though Mr and Mrs O didnt know or didnt appreciate what was being done 
in their name, it was being done. Foundation received threats of legal action insisting 
that it write off a debt of £350,000. In those circumstances it was reasonable that it 
asked its solicitors to respond to the threatened legal action on its behalf  as in fact 
Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law asked it to do.
And when the mortgage remained unpaid, and Foundation received no 
communication from Mr and Mrs O other than continued assertions from their son-in-
law, and letters from Mrs O, that the mortgage no longer existed, it was left with little 
choice but to bring legal action to recover the mortgage through repossession.
It had tried telling Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law that there was no merit in his 
arguments. It had tried contacting Mr and Mrs O. But no payments were being made, 
the arrears were mounting, and it seemed to Foundation at that time that Mr and Mrs 
O had no intention of ever making any payments again. In those circumstances, its 
difficult to see what else it could have done other than start repossession action.
By this point, Mr O was back home from hospital and saw correspondence from 
Foundations solicitors and realised what had happened. He was able to get in touch 
with Foundation and agree to start making payments again, and start repaying the 
arrears. He also explained what had been happening and his and Mrs Os health 
concerns.
Following these discussions, Foundation was reassured and agreed to withdraw the 
repossession proceedings. Thankfully Mr O was just in time to stop his son-in-laws 
irresponsible approach to the mortgage costing them their home.
As I say, given what it was told and what it knew at the time, it was reasonable for 
Foundation to instruct its solicitors both to respond to Mr and Mrs Os son-in-laws 
threats of legal action, and to begin possession proceedings itself.
I therefore need to decide whether it was fair for Foundation to go on to add its costs 
to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage balance  and, if it was, whether the amount of costs 
was reasonable.The starting point for considering that is the mortgage agreement itself. The 
mortgage terms and conditions say that Mr and Mrs O
must pay our expenses when we ask for them  all expenses will be 
charged to the mortgage account and form part of the amount owed..
The word expenses is defined as
all reasonable costs and expenses we have to pay in connection with the 
mortgage. These include costs and expenses which we pay:
Recovering all or part of the amount owed;
Bringing or defending legal proceedings relating to amount owed, the 
property or any other security for the amount owed;
Protecting, preserving or enforcing any security for the amount owed;
Remedying any breach by you of any of your obligations under the 
mortgage.

Our expenses include costs and expenses which we have to pay to third 
parties and our administration fees in respect of our internal costs as set out 
in our tariff.
What this means is that where Foundation incurs costs in managing the mortgage, 
its entitled to recover them from Mr and Mrs O, and do so by adding them to the 
mortgage balance.
Mr and Mrs O say that there werent any legal proceedings, and as a matter of law 
pre-action costs arent recoverable from an opponent. Thats true, as a statement of 
the general legal position. But in this case there were legal proceedings  Foundation 
had issued a repossession claim, though it never went to full trial.
And in any case, the general rule is that a court wont award pre-action costs when 
making a costs order at the end of a case. But thats not what is happening here. 
Foundation is not relying on costs following the event in a court case, or a court 
awarding costs.
Instead, Foundation is relying on whats known in law as a contractual indemnity, 
which means that  regardless of the usual legal position in other cases  Mr and 
Mrs O agreed, under the terms and conditions of this mortgage, to cover all 
Foundations costs. Even if it couldnt recover its legal costs from Mr and Mrs O in a 
court case, its still entitled to recover them in this case, because the mortgage terms 
and conditions say it can.
I dont agree that this is a dispute between Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law and 
Foundation, with the costs of it to be sorted out between them. As I said above, Mr 
and Mrs Os son-in-law was acting as their agent, on their behalf, in dealing with their 
mortgage lender about their mortgage. That means that, in law, they are responsible 
for what he did on their behalf  and if he exceeded their authority, thats a matter 
between him and Mr and Mrs O.
In any case, even if this was a dispute between Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law and 
Foundation independently of Mr and Mrs O  which it isnt  it was about Mr and Mrs 
Os mortgage. And the terms and conditions Ive quoted above allow Foundation to recover costs of bringing or defending legal proceedings (which in my view includes 
threatened proceedings) whether or not Mr and Mrs O are party to those 
proceedings. Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law was threatening to bring legal proceedings 
relating to the amount owed, and the terms allow Foundation to recover its costs in 
defending itself against that.
Im therefore satisfied that it was reasonable in principle for Foundation to instruct it 
solicitors to deal with Mr and Mrs Os son-in-laws threat of legal proceedings, and to 
add the costs of doing so to their mortgage balance.
The final point I need to deal with is whether the amount of the costs was reasonable. 
In total, Foundation added around £20,000 to the mortgage balance, including in 
relation to the possession proceedings.
Ive seen the invoices from its solicitors, and they relate to work done in March and 
April 2021 in relation to Mr and Mrs Os son-in-laws claim that the mortgage had 
been settled  for which just under £17,000 was incurred. A further £3,500 was 
charged in June 2020 for work done in connection with the possession proceedings.
The £17,000 includes over 50 hours spent by Foundations solicitors, together with 
almost £5,000 spent on advice from counsel. So Ive thought very carefully about 
whether this is a reasonable amount  and I asked Foundation and its solicitors for 
further information about what exactly was done.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied that  by and large  the actions of 
the solicitors were reasonable. They were largely engaged in corresponding with Mr 
and Mrs Os son-in-law  including replying to correspondence from him  and 
advising Foundation of its legal position. Most of that was driven by the need to 
respond to contact from Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law, and so Im satisfied that was 
reasonable.
However, Im not satisfied it was necessary for the solicitors to seek advice from a 
barrister at a very early stage, as happened in this case. Had Mr and Mrs Os 
son-in-law carried out his threat to issue legal proceedings, it would have been 
reasonable to instruct a barrister to represent Foundation in court.
However, in this case a barrister was instructed to advise on the law rather than to 
defend Foundation in court. Im not persuaded this was necessary  especially in 
view of the groundless nature of the legal claim and the seniority and experience of 
the solicitor involved in advising Foundation (who claimed time for researching the 
legal position herself in any event). In response to my queries, Foundation and its 
solicitor didnt offer a specific justification of the need for advice at this stage (even 
though this was one of the questions I asked), nor have I seen the advice given.
I dont therefore think that it is reasonable for Foundation to pass on the costs 
relating to the instruction of the barrister to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account.
Having reviewed the detailed breakdown of work done, it seems to me that the 
following items relating to the barristers instruction should not be charged to Mr and 
Mrs O:
22 March  emails totalling £74
23 March  preparing bundle, internal emails and internal calls re bundle for 
barrister, emails to barristers clerk  total £610.5024 March  email to barristers clerk - £37
25 March  updating barrister - £92.50
26 March  drafting instructions to barrister, emails with clerk - £814
31 March  considering barristers opinion and emails - £203.50
31 March  barristers invoice - £4,000
This totals £5,831.50  adding VAT brings it to £6,997.80.
Foundation offered to reduce the legal fees charged to the account by £5,000. For 
the reasons Ive given, I dont think this goes far enough. But I dont think I can fairly 
uphold the wider complaint that Foundation was not entitled to add legal costs at all.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs Os daughter responded to my provisional decision on their behalf. She said:
The £10 settlement offer is a matter between the son-in-law and Foundation, not 
Mr and Mrs O. But the son-in-law would agree to drop his argument if Foundation 
came to a settlement;
Foundation was in fact aware of Mr Os health situation by April 2021  yet still took 
possession action. This, and the amount of the legal fees it claims, shows its 
aggressive tactics;
Foundation has not given Mr and Mrs O a copy of the signed mortgage agreement  
without that, they dont agree the terms and conditions are binding on them;
They dont agree that Foundation has actually incurred the legal costs  unless it 
provides proof of payment in the form of bank statements, not just invoices;
They do not agree that the terms and conditions allow costs to be claimed on the 
indemnity basis. But in any case, costs have to be reasonably incurred and 
reasonable in amount;
Foundations solicitors sent eight letters and emails to Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law, 
which is not enough to justify the costs claimed. The content is repetitive and not 
technical and much of the work could have been done by Foundation or its in-house 
solicitors;
They disagreed with the reasonableness of work claimed on the invoices, and 
dispute that it was necessary for much of it to be done by a qualified solicitor  who 
went to town in an excessive and unreasonable way;
There are mathematical errors on the invoices;
Insisting on doing everything through solicitors made things not only more expensive 
but also more stressful for Mr and Mrs O;
The rules of court provide that where a VAT registered firm can recover VAT as input 
tax, it is not entitled to recover VAT from a paying party as part of a costs award. For 
the same reasons, Foundation should not be entitled to add VAT to the legal costs it 
has added to their mortgage balance;They do not accept that they are liable for these costs at all. But in the interests of 
resolving the matter, would accept a reduction to £3,000;
Foundation is effectively a loan shark, profiting off ordinary borrowers for the benefit 
of private investors based overseas and avoiding UK taxes
Foundation also responded. It did not agree that it was premature or excessive to instruct 
counsel to advise given what it described as the serious and potentially fraudulent actions 
of a third party, who had also tried to get its security removed from the Land Registry. 
Foundation was entitled to take action to protect its position, and to charge the costs of doing 
so to the mortgage account. However, it said that in the interests of resolving the complaint 
and moving on, it would agree to reduce the fees added to the balance by the amount I had 
set.
Foundation also said that it was proper for it to include VAT on the amount it added to the 
loan balance since it was not entitled to recover VAT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything again, taking full note of the detailed points 
Mr and Mrs Os daughter has made on their behalf (which Ive only summarised above). 
However, having done so, I dont intend to depart from the overall conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision.
There seems to be some confusion between a contractual indemnity, and the indemnity 
basis for assessing costs.
A contractual indemnity means that, under the terms of a contract, one party agrees to cover 
 indemnify  the other partys costs. Ive set out above the specific part of the mortgage 
terms and conditions by which Mr and Mrs O agreed to cover any costs Foundation incurred, 
and which entitled Foundation to add its costs to the mortgage balance.
The indemnity basis is an approach the courts use for assessing costs awarded in a legal 
case. There are two ways of assessing costs  the standard basis and the indemnity basis  
and without going into unnecessary detail, the difference between them is essentially which 
party is entitled to the benefit of the doubt in the assessment process.
The courts have said that in considering costs subject to a contractual indemnity, the 
indemnity basis is to be preferred. But those things are not the same.
In any case, my view is that, as a matter of law and as a matter of whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, Foundation is entitled to recover costs which are reasonably 
incurred and which are reasonable in amount, and thats the key question I have to decide.
Im satisfied, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, that it was reasonable for 
Foundation to instruct solicitors to advise it and to protect its position.
As far as Foundation was concerned, Mr and Mrs O had stopped paying their mortgage and 
had asked their son-in-law to engage with Foundation to assert that the mortgage had been 
settled for £10 and Foundation was no longer entitled to recover the mortgage. The son-in-
law was also trying to get Foundations charge removed from the Land Registry, and was 
strongly arguing that Foundation was not entitled to any further payment.It was reasonable, in the situation as Foundation understood it at the time, to ask its 
solicitors to deal with the assertive and legalistic (if wrong) argument Mr and Mrs Os 
son-in-law was making, which was accompanied by threats of court action, attempts to 
remove its charge, and what appeared at the time to be deliberate withholding of payment.
I accept that Foundation became aware of Mr Os health situation by April, rather than June. 
But even before that, Mrs O had written to it directly adopting her son-in-laws arguments 
and refusing to make payment. So it was reasonable for Foundation to think that 
Mr and Mrs Os position was that Foundation was not entitled to any further payments and 
Mr and Mrs O didnt intend to make any.
Also around April, and perhaps becoming conscious of the hopelessness of his arguments 
and the consequences to Mr and Mrs O of pursuing them, their son-in-law tried to back down 
and to negotiate a rather higher settlement figure than £10  though rather less than the loan 
balance.
By this time, given the situation, Foundation was contemplating taking repossession action, 
a matter appropriately left to its solicitors.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that it was reasonable that Foundation instructed its 
solicitors to deal with the arguments Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law was making, and to deal with 
the repossession action it started in light of their failure to make payments.
It was only later, when Mr O got involved, that a proper discussion of the true position 
happened  and at that point Foundation agreed a temporary reduced payment arrangement 
and paused the possession proceedings. I think that was fair.
Im satisfied that Foundation actually incurred these costs, and I dont think its necessary for 
me to ask it to provide proof of the funds leaving its bank account before I can make that 
finding.
Im also satisfied that the costs were reasonably incurred. Much of the work the solicitors did 
at first was reactive, responding to Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law. Though later, it also began 
possession proceedings, acting on Foundations instructions because of the missed 
payments, mounting arrears, and lack of sensible contact from Mr and Mrs O.
For the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont think it was necessary for the 
senior solicitor to research the legal position herself, and then also ask counsel to advise on 
it. There was a practical necessity to respond to him and his threats of legal action, but I 
dont think it was necessary to seek detailed advice from counsel at that stage.
However, other than that, Im satisfied the costs claimed were reasonably incurred and 
reasonable in amount. I dont agree that this was a dispute between Foundation and 
Mr and Mrs Os son-in-law on his own behalf. He was acting for and representing them  
and even if he wasnt, under the terms of the mortgage contract Foundation is entitled to 
recover the costs of defending itself and protecting its security, whether or not it was doing 
so against Mr and Mrs O. 
Even if Mr and Mrs O dont have a signed copy of the mortgage agreement, and Foundation 
hasnt provided them with one, I dont think that changes the position. Theres no dispute 
that Mr and Mrs O borrowed this money and entered into a mortgage with Foundation. 
The courts have found that the absence of a signed mortgage deed does not invalidate the 
mortgage or make it unenforceable. And in any case, whether a mortgage contract is 
technically enforceable as a matter of law is a matter for the courts, not for me. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs O borrowed the money from Foundation, agreed to give security for the 
money they borrowed and agreed to Foundations lending terms. Im satisfied that its fair 
and reasonable to treat them as bound by the mortgage.
It's correct that there are some minor errors on the invoices  where the totals in the 
narratives dont match the total costs claimed. However, Im satisfied a reasonable 
explanation has been given for that, and I dont think that affects Foundations ability to 
recover those costs.
Im afraid I dont agree that Foundation was not entitled to include VAT on the costs it added 
to the balance. Its true that where a party is entitled to recover VAT as input tax from 
HMRC, it should not also seek to recover it from a third party (such as Mr and Mrs O). 
However, thats subject to tax law. In particular, VAT registered firms are not entitled to 
recover VAT on exempt supplies. Schedule 9 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 says that 
supplies relating to financial services, including the granting of any credit, are exempt 
supplies.
That means that anything Foundation does in connection with its mortgage lending business 
 the granting of credit  is an exempt supply. That means Foundation cannot recover VAT 
that it pays out as input tax. And therefore, because it cannot recover it as input tax, it can 
recover it from Mr and Mrs O.
Putting things right
Im therefore satisfied that  provided the underlying fees are reasonably incurred and 
reasonable in amount  its fair and reasonable for Foundation to include VAT on those fees. 
And, for the reasons Ive given, with the exception of costs relating to the instruction of the 
barrister to advise on Mr and Mrs Os son-in-laws initial assertion that the mortgage had 
been settled, the costs incurred were reasonably incurred and reasonable in amount.
To put matters right, Foundation should remove the costs relating to the instruction of the 
barrister. I have itemised them in my provisional decision, quoted above, and in total they 
are £5,831.50  adding VAT brings it to £6,997.80. Foundation should remove that amount 
from the mortgage balance, together with any mortgage interest charged since it was added.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans to remove £6,997.80 of legal costs 
from Mr and Mrs Os mortgage balance, together with any mortgage interest charged on 
those costs since addition.  This includes, and is not in addition to, the £5,000 that 
Foundation previously offered to remove.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman