DRN-3176973
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the surrender of an endowment policy he held with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited. He is unhappy that the surrender value he received was 
significantly less than the amount he was given in a telephone call before he decided to 
surrender the policy.
What happened
Mr H has explained that in the summer of 2020 he and his wife wanted to complete some 
home improvements. They were looking into how to fund the works and asked Prudential 
how much their endowment policies were worth. Based on the values they were given, they 
decided they could afford the works and booked the builder to start the following month.
Mr H telephoned Prudential on 20 July 2020 and asked for a value for his policy and was 
told it was worth slightly under £34,000. He also asked about how to cash it in and if there 
were any penalties for doing so. 
Prudential has confirmed that as the value of Mr Hs policy needed to be manually 
calculated, he shouldnt have been given a value over the telephone. In addition, its said 
that all correspondence about the policy value should have been manually amended. 
Unfortunately, the payment notice confirmation hadnt been, which meant the breakdown of 
the policy value contained in it had been wrong. Prudential has confirmed that while there 
was a warning on the policy records about this, that warning doesnt appear to have been 
noticed by its members of staff. In other words, the mistakes happened because of human 
error.
Three days after Mr H made his initial enquiries, he called Prudential again and confirmed 
that he wanted to surrender his policy. The relevant form was emailed to him the same day, 
which he completed and returned.
The surrender was processed, and Mr H was paid slightly over £22,000. He raised concerns 
about this, given the value hed been given on 20 July 2020. He said that while he 
understood prices could vary, he considered the drop of over £11,000 was significant.  
Prudential upheld Mr Hs complaint. It apologised for the level of service he had received as 
he had been given the wrong policy value when he telephoned, and it paid him £1,000 for 
the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. However, it confirmed that the 
surrender value it had paid him was correct. It said that it would consider any loss Mr H had 
suffered in relation to the home improvements he had said he committed to, based on the 
incorrect value being quoted, and asked that any further evidence he wanted considered in 
this regard be provided within the following 60 days.
Further correspondence was exchanged, and Mr H provided Prudential with some further 
information. However, Prudential didnt consider that information enabled it to assess the 
financial impact its error had on Mr H. It repeated its requests for information regarding what 
had happened, when and the costs involved. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Prudentials responses and asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators did so, but he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He 
confirmed that Mr H been given incorrect information that misled him about the amount he 
would receive when surrendering the policy. However, he considered that Prudential had 
acted reasonably when the error had been pointed out, as it had given Mr H the opportunity 
to evidence any detriment he had suffered by relying on the incorrect information. The 
investigator also considered the compensation payment was an appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he was disappointed that the 
investigator felt the outcome was fair, as Prudential had not explained how the error 
occurred or provided satisfactory compensation. He reiterated that he had surrendered the 
policy in reliance of the information hed been given about its value and would not have gone 
ahead with the home improvements had that error not occurred. He considered that 
Prudential should honour the valuation given, even if it had been given in error. He said that 
as Prudential had not paid out what he thinks it should, he had entered into a formal 
borrowing arrangement with relatives, by which he was incurring interest and having to make 
monthly payments from income. None of this would be happening if Prudential had paid out 
what it should have. 
Mr H provided further information about the home improvements, the costs and how the 
shortfall in money had been funded. Another of our investigators reviewed the complaint in 
light of the new evidence supplied. He was also satisfied that the £1,000 payment was 
enough to compensate Mr H for the upset and inconvenience he suffered because of the 
error by Prudential. Having considered the information Mr H provided about the home 
improvements, the investigator wasnt persuaded that he had suffered a financial loss as it 
evidenced that Mr H had already committed to the building works before he had been given 
the incorrect information by Prudential. In addition, he was of the opinion that in borrowing 
the money from relatives, rather than as a further advance on the mortgage (as originally 
intended and how Mr H believes the works would have been funded if they had been 
delayed until 2021), had actually saved him money. This was because building society 
savings rates, which is the interest rate agreed with the relative, would have been 
considerably lower than mortgage interest rates. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He reiterated that had he been told the 
correct surrender value of the policy, the home improvements wouldnt have gone ahead. 
This, he considered, was demonstrated by the fact that most of the deposit needed under 
the building contract wasnt paid until after information about the endowment policies had 
been received. He highlighted that in order to complete the works they had initially borrowed 
£13,000 from relatives and had later replaced this with a personal loan of £27,000, which 
had enabled all of the works to the property to be completed. Had Prudential paid out what it 
should have, he would only have had to borrow £16,000 and so he considered that it was 
clear that hed suffered a financial loss. 
Mr H also highlighted that in encashing the endowment, he had lost the life and critical 
illness cover it provided, which had been the main reason hed kept the policy when he 
decided not to continue to use it for mortgage purposes. Mr H said that hed received 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error, but not the financial 
shortfall and have lost important protection benefits. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prudential has accepted that mistakes were made in dealing with Mr Hs enquiries in 2020, 
so I dont need to assess that issue. I would also comment that when Prudential offered to 
consider if Mr H had suffered a financial loss due to its error, it was correct to do so. As 
such, what I need to consider is what redress, if any, should be paid to him.  
I would initially explain that when assessing redress we dont place a consumer in the 
position they would have been in had the incorrect information been correct. Instead we 
place them, as far as possible, in the financial position they would have been in had the 
mistake not happened. This means that if a consumer relied on the information they were 
given to their detriment; we can compensate for that detriment.
In this case, Mr H has said that he and Mrs H wouldnt have had started the home 
improvements in 2020 had they not had all the money they needed. This is whether that was 
through borrowing on the mortgage or a combination of encashment of investments and 
borrowing on the mortgage in the form of drawing down overpayments. 
However, the contract with the builder was drawn up in June 2020, several weeks before 
Mr H enquired about surrendering the policy. I highlight this as the usual process in such 
situations is that a quote will be given, but a contract wouldnt be drawn up until the 
customers had confirmed the works will be going ahead. Again. the initial, albeit small, 
payment towards the deposit was made before Prudential was approached. These facts 
would indicate that Mr and Mrs H had decided, before asking Prudential about the 
endowment surrender value, to have the home improvements done. As such, it doesnt 
appear that reliance was placed on the incorrect surrender value given when the decision to 
have the works done was made.
Of course it would have been upsetting and likely worrying when Mr H received less for his 
policy than he had expected. However, I am satisfied that he received the amount he was 
entitled to for the policy. I would also comment that Mr and Mrs H were initially intending to 
borrow all the money for the home improvements from their mortgage lender. Based on the 
information Mr H has given us, this would have totalled over £70,000. Whilst I understand 
the point Mr H has made about the loss of protection benefits the surrender has resulted in, 
the current position is that only £27,000 of borrowing was taken. Although the personal loan 
is likely to attract a higher rate of interest than borrowing on the mortgage would have cost, 
the fact that it is for a much smaller amount and may also be for a shorter period, would 
balance out the situation. As such, based on the information Mr H has provided, I am not 
persuaded that, even if I could find that he had relied on the incorrect surrender value when 
making his decisions, that he would have suffered a financial loss because of it. 
Mr H was paid £1,000 by Prudential for the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused 
him. This is a substantial sum of compensation and having considered the circumstances, I 
think it is adequate to compensate for the loss of expectation Mr H suffered and the 
inconvenience of having to source alternative funding for some of the home improvements.
My final decision My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
11 February 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman