DRN-2495869
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Amtrust Europe Limiteds handing of his claim under the Family Legal 
Protection section of his home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Mr P has Family Legal Protection which is 
provided by Amtrust. The policy includes a benefit that in the event of Mr P being called for 
jury service, it will pay him a daily rate if he isnt able to recover the same from the court or 
his employer.
In December 2019 Mr P was called for jury service. Mr P is the sole director of a limited 
company Ill refer to as K. He was unable to work whilst on jury service for a period of ten 
days. In 2020 Mr P made a claim to Amtrust. The claim form recorded that hed lost around 
£8,000 as a result of having to attend jury service and that hed only been reimbursed 
around £650 from the court. This was based on his day rate of £725 + VAT. Amtrust asked 
Mr P for a copy of his recent tax return. They also pointed out that the day rate hed referred 
to was what K would be paid, which is different to his personal income. 
Mr P complained, he believed his wages should be considered as £725 per day. He was 
also unhappy with some of the service that Amtrust provided. Amtrust responded to the 
complaint but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They pointed out that the policy 
requires Mr P to provide them with information to enable them to assess the claim. They 
repeated that they wanted to see his tax return to establish his normal income. They also 
suggested an alternative which was for Mr P to provide evidence from a client that he was 
unable to work on the days in question along with a letter from his accountant confirming his 
individual daily rate of net income, not that charged by K.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary he thought Amtrust had acted fairly. Mr P disagrees and has asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. He believes hes provided the information that 
Amtrust asked for and they are now failing to honour the alternative suggestion they made in 
their complaint response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy says We will pay a daily rate for the duration you are off work while attending 
jury service for each whole day of such attendance providing these costs are not recoverable 
from your employer or the court. The daily rate is given a specific definition in the policy of 
1/250th of your normal income.
This is a reasonably common term to this type of insurance and I dont consider it to be 
unfair. The policy isnt seeking to reimburse or top up Mr Ps earnings  instead it provides a 
daily payment for the duration of work missed due to jury service. Some policies have a fixed 
daily rate, but Amtrust have based their daily rate on 1/250th of the insureds normal income. 
So even if I were to agree with Mr P that his normal daily income was £725 (something Ill 
come to in more detail below), the policy was never going to pay him that as the daily rate. It 
would be the starting point to calculate his normal income and the daily rate the policy would 
provide would then be 1/250th of that amount. 
Mr P is the director of his own company and so calculating his normal income isnt 
necessarily as straightforward as it would be for someone who was employed. I think Mr P 
would accept that the self-employed and particularly those involved in contracting work have 
less linear income compared to those in direct employment. Its reasonably common to have 
a contract for a period of time and then to perhaps have a gap without work before a new 
contract is secured. 
I dont think the normal income can fairly be calculated on what would have happened in 
the specific weeks that the jury service took place. Logically if I were to follow that approach 
and the jury service fell when Mr P was between contracts, it could be argued that his 
normal income on those weeks was zero. I wouldnt consider that to be fair. 
I also have to keep in mind that Mr P is a separate legal entity to his company, K. The point 
here is that K get paid by the client and then Mr P pays himself from the profits in K. Overall, 
I think the fairest way to consider Mr Ps normal income would be for him to evidence 
specifically what he was paid by K during the relevant tax year. This is his true income (what 
he was actually paid) rather than what he could have paid himself. 
Ive also considered that in their complaint response Amtrust said:  in seeking to treat you 
fairly, we would be prepared to waive the income tax return on the proviso that you could 
supply correspondence between you and a client for the relevant periods advising them that 
you were unable to work on those affected days due to jury service and also a letter from 
your accountant confirming your individual daily rate of net income and not that charged by 
the company. 
Mr P feels he has complied with this request. Ive seen evidence to support that Mr P was 
unable to provide contracting services on behalf of K for their client whilst engaged on jury 
service. The letter from Mr Ps accountant says: Mr Ps daily rate was £725, and after 
corporation tax at 19% this gives a net profit value in the company of £587.25. As a limited 
company director, he is able to access retained net profits. Giving a daily rate of £587.25 per 
day for this purpose. Amtrust say this isnt sufficient  I dont think they are being 
unreasonable when saying this. The accountant has confirmed the funds that could be 
taken by Mr P from K. But this isnt the same as what he took and what his actual income 
was. 
The policy includes an exclusion which says there is no cover where you fail to give full 
information or facts to us or to the adviser on a matter material to your claim. Amtrust have 
said they will consider the claim further when provided with a straightforward answer as to 
Mr Ps actual income upon which he pays personal income tax. I think this is fair and in the 
absence of further information from Mr P, I dont think Amtrust need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman