DRN-2082223
The complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was 
given unsuitable investment advice by United Friendly, now The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society (Royal London). He considers he has lost out financially.
What happened
In April 1991, Mr P contracted out of SERPS and started a personal pension Scheme. It was 
designed to accept Mr Ps SERPS contributions. The contributions were invested in with-
profits funds.
The policy was due to mature on 25 October 2026. The policy was paid out to Mr P on 
25 October 2016 for £7,969.35.
On 25 October 2019, Mr Ps CMC complained to Royal London. It said United Friendly had 
wrongly advised Mr P to contract out of SERPS. It said Mr P was not properly informed of 
the inherent risks in the transfer and product recommendation. He was not fully informed of 
the investment costs associated with the product and should not have been advised to 
take the action he did. It asserts had he been aware of the risks, he would not have 
accepted the advice to contract-out.
In its final response dated 14 November 2019, Royal London didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. It said United Friendly didnt provide advice on the suitability, but rather Mr P 
was provided with a brochure which explained how contracting out of SERPS worked and 
the potential benefits. Because of Mr Ps age and earnings at the time it was considered 
potentially beneficial for him to contract out of SERPS.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Royal London. The CMC didnt accept this, it said the advice was wrong for 
Mr P and he had been exposed to unnecessary risks and excessive costs. So, as no 
agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached 
the same view as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
P. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it 
on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete or unclear as some of it is here, Im required 
to reach a decision on a balance of probabilities, that is to say what I think is more likely to 
have happened.
The evidence does suggest that Mr P completed a United Friendly form to contract out of 
SERPS. That form was part of brochure issued by United Friendly which discussed that Mr 
P could be better off by contracting out of SERPS  if he was below a certain age and had 
certain minimum earnings. The pivotal age at the time was 45  Mr P was below that age. 
But it didnt guarantee that Mr P would be better off by contracting out of SERPS  that 
would depend on how his contracted-out pension with United Friendly performed.
Royal London says that Mr P did not receive any personal advice (from an adviser at United 
Friendly) on this issue and I have not seen evidence that he did. The plan was arranged 
several years ago, so I cant know exactly what was said to Mr P during the sales process. 
From what I can see, Royal London didnt give any advice, so it isnt responsible for 
ensuring that the policy which Mr P contracted out of SERPS was suitable. I would also 
mention that there was no way United Friendly could know when the application was made 
exactly how the state pension would be paid and what the eligibility for certain payments 
and benefits would be when Mr P took his pension benefits. It could only say that there was 
the opportunity to have an increased pension payment based on the situation at the time.
In terms of the other criteria, Mr P was under 45 years old and his annual earnings were 
recorded as £5,000 on the application form. I am satisfied that Mr P met the required 
conditions to potentially benefit from contracting-out of SERPS.
From the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded contracting out of SERPS with United 
Friendly didnt guarantee the pension benefits would be better, it only gave the potential 
for them to be better. So, Im afraid the fact Mr P feels he may not have been better off 
isnt evidence that he has been misled, mis-sold or that Royal London has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Wendy Steele
 
Ombudsman