DRN-3852998
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about a Comprehensive Savings Plan she has with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited. She has complained that she had been sold the policy on the basis 
that it would pay out at least £30,000. She has also said that Aviva didnt keep her up to date 
with the progress of the policy after 2010, which prevented her from taking action to deal 
with the likely shortfall.
Miss Ts policy was taken out with a different life assurance company, but is now with Aviva. 
For simplicity, I will refer to Aviva throughout, even where actions were taken by a previous 
product provider.
What happened
Miss T took out her Comprehensive Savings Plan, which is an endowment policy, in 1991. It 
had a term of 30 years and provided life cover and had a target value of £30,000. The 
generic policy was not specifically designed as a mortgage repayment vehicle, but could be 
used for that purpose. 
In the late 1990s the industry regulator began to have concerns about the ability of mortgage 
endowment policies to repay the mortgages they were linked to. From the early 2000s 
update letters were sent to mortgage endowment policyholders whose policies were or might 
still be linked to a mortgage. These letters projected forward using assumed growth rates 
and predicted whether a policy would meet its target value and if not, by how much it was 
likely to fall short. Policyholders were told what level of risk there was of their policy not 
reaching its target value. These letters were colour coded  red, amber or green - and 
commonly referred to as RAG letters.
Miss T was initially included in this exercise and she was sent a letter in 2010, telling her that 
there was a high risk that her policy wouldnt reach its target value. Aviva has confirmed that 
no further RAG letters were sent after 2010 due to the policy type. However, a few months 
later Miss T requested, and was provided with, information about how much she would need 
to pay to the policy going forward in order to put the policy back on track to reach its target. 
She didnt increase the policy premium.
While no further RAG letters were sent after 2010, Miss T seems to have recognised this 
quite early on, as she asked for projections for the policy in 2012. The information provided 
confirmed that at none of the growth rates used was the policy predicted to reach its target 
value by the end of the term. In addition, annual statements for the policy were sent to 
Miss T, which detailed the policy value and what its surrender value was. The statement 
issued in December 2020 showed a policy value of £13,698.10 (an increase of 
approximately £580 from the previous statement) and a surrender value of £20,808.72.
The policy matured on 29 November 2021 with a shortfall against the target value. Aviva has 
explained that it usually sends policyholders a maturity pack around a month before the 
maturity date. However, unfortunately, in Miss Ts case the maturity pack was not sent on 
time. Aviva sent the pack on 20 November 2021. Miss T confirmed she had received it on 
the maturity date.
Miss T called Aviva on the maturity date and explained that shed just had the maturity pack, 
which gave her various options. She said that it would help her to make a decision if she 
knew what the policy was worth if she cashed it in at that point. It was confirmed the value at 
that point was just under £23,000. Miss T said that the policy was supposed to have been 
worth over £30,000 when it matured. She questioned that she hadnt had any amber or red 
warnings saying that the policy wasnt going to achieve what it was supposed to. There was 
a discussion about what letters should have been sent to Miss T and it was confirmed she 
had been sent a red letter in 2010, but no others since. It was also mentioned that a final 
review would usually be done on a mortgage endowment policy five years before the end of 
the term. Aviva said it would look into what had happened and get back to Miss T later that 
day.
On 8 December 2021 Miss T chased Aviva for a response to the questions about the lack of 
information about the policy. It was confirmed that the member of staff she had spoken to 
had requested information about the issue. However, he wasnt available at that time and 
Miss T was promised a call back. The call handler asked during the conversation if Miss T 
might have muddled up the amount of life cover provided by the policy with how much she 
would receive from the policy. 
Two days later Miss T chased Aviva again. The first member of staff that Miss T had spoken 
to called her back the same day. Unfortunately, it wasnt convenient for Miss T to speak at 
that time and she said she would call back the following week. She did however, say that 
there seemed to have been some miscommunication about what the policy was supposed to 
pay out. 
Miss T called back at the beginning of January 2022. She again highlighted that she had 
been sold the policy on the basis that it would pay out at least £30,000 at maturity and that 
she hadnt had any correspondence from Aviva telling her that there might be such a 
shortfall. There was some speculation as to why no letters about the shortfall had been sent 
to her and Miss T said she wanted to know why she hadnt been told about the shortfall over 
the years. Miss T raised the suggestion from December 2021 about her having been 
mistaken about the amount the policy would pay out, and that sum only having been the 
amount of life cover provided. She also said that as she got no letters telling her about a 
shortfall after 2010, she assumed the policy was ticking along and the target amount would 
be paid out. There was again a discussion about why no further RAG letters were sent, and 
Aviva said that it would investigate the matter. 
Aviva subsequently explained to Miss T that her complaint about the mis-sale of the policy 
had been made too late and so it didnt comment on it. It also said that after it sent a red 
alert letter it stopped sending reprojection letters for this type of policy, and only issue annual 
valuation statements. Aviva, however, accepted that the maturity pack was sent to Miss T 
later than it should have been. In addition, it acknowledged that she had been given 
inconsistent information in conversations with members of its staff. Aviva apologised and 
offered Miss T £200 compensation for the upset it had caused her.
Aviva later again confirmed that Miss T was sent a red letter on 28 April 2010. It highlighted 
that she was sent premium increase quotation a few months later. Thereafter, Miss T was 
sent annual valuations statements for the policy, which would have made her aware that the 
policy value was below the £30,000 target. 
Miss T wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred her complaint to this service.  One 
of our investigators looked at the complaint and concluded that we couldnt consider the 
complaint about the sale of the policy. This was because the complaint had been raised too late. He went on to consider the merits of the complaint about the administration of the 
policy. He concluded that the £200 compensation payment was fair in the circumstances.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction on 5 December 2022. I concluded that we 
were only able to consider the part of the complaint relating to administration of the policy, 
including the provision of the maturity pack and the subsequent telephone conversations. As 
such, this decision will only comment on those issues. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said that it doesnt send further RAG letters after issuing a high-risk letter on 
policies like Miss Ts, as they were not specifically designed as mortgage endowment 
policies. The RAG letter reviews were not required to be sent on all endowment policies, 
only those sold for mortgage purposes. As Miss Ts policy is a general savings endowment it 
would not have automatically fallen to be included in the RAG review. However, it appears 
that, as the policy was flexible in how it could be set up, Aviva included it in the initial stages, 
just in case, but stopped doing so once a red letter had been issued. I dont think this was 
unreasonable and as Aviva had made it clear to Miss T that the policy was unlikely to reach 
its target at maturity, I cant find it is responsible for the shortfall on the policy in the 
circumstances. 
While it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, for completeness, I would say its clear 
that Miss T understood the contents of the 2010 letter, as she looked at increasing her 
premium to bring the policy back on track. While she decided not to do so, that doesnt 
negate the knowledge she clearly had. It would also appear that she looked into the 
possibilities available to her in 2012, as she again asked for more information about the 
policy, including looking at what the policy might be worth if the term was extended by five 
years. 
Aviva has acknowledged having sent the maturity pack out late and so it would have been 
unlikely that Miss T could have claimed the maturity proceeds as soon as they became 
available if shed wanted to. However, as she didnt claim the maturity proceeds following the 
maturity date, it doesnt appear that the late issuing of the maturity pack caused a financial 
loss. 
It is also clear that the communications around Miss Ts questions following receipt of the 
maturity pack could have been better. This may have caused some concern on Miss Ts part 
and clearly inconvenienced her. However, having considered the offer Aviva made of £200, I 
think it was a suitable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already offered to pay £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think that offer fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited should pay Miss T £200.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman