DRN-3980643
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank declined a Section 
75 claim. He would like a refund for the product he bought and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration, he said in October 2021 he bought a product with a 
shelf of 6-8 months, but it wasnt fit for purpose when he came to use it. Tesco Bank 
looked at Mr Cs claim under Section 75 which is what I would have expected it to do.
For a Section 75 claim to succeed  Mr C needed to evidence either  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Mr C received the goods in November 2021 but didnt 
use them until April 2022.  He has provided product information confirming the 
product has a shelf life of 6-8 months if stored in a cool well-ventilated environment.  
Mr C used the product within 6 months of getting it, so it should have been useable if 
correctly stored.
I have noted there was an issue with the date of manufacture but unfortunately Mr C 
didnt open the goods until six months after he got them so its impossible to know 
what state the goods were in  on receipt. 
I also appreciate its difficult for Mr C to evidence he correctly stored the goods, But I 
think Tesco Bank made a fair point in its final response letter when it said that if Mr C  
hadnt followed the merchants guidance on storage this could have impacted on the 
quality of the goods.
Finally, I acknowledge Mr C supplied photos of the product, but they dont evidence 
how the product was stored. I have noted Mr C suggested that the manufacturer 
could inspect the product. However,  with a Section 75 claim the onus is on Mr C to 
show there an issue with the product  for example by arranging an independent 
inspection  not the merchant.
Unfortunately, considering all the information that I have seen I dont think Mr C has 
evidenced  misrepresentation or a breach of contract. On that basis I think Tesco 
Bank acted reasonably in declining his Section 75 claim. And so, I cant reasonably 
ask Tesco Bank to refund the cost of the product or to compensate Mr C as he would 
like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman