DRN-3671140
The complaint
Mrs G complaint is about Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mrs G is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mrs G 
throughout my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs G applied for an online ISA on 28 June 2021. Cynergy Bank has explained that 
its online ISA products are made up of issues which compromise of an offered 
variable rate. The account terms set out that Cynergy Bank may change the interest 
rate applied to the account for reasons including  to respond proportionately to a 
change in the Bank of England Base Rate or any other publicly listed market rate.. 
I understand why Mrs G believes that she hasnt been treated fairly as increases in 
the Bank of England Base Rate havent resulted in increases to the interest rate on 
her ISA account but as the account isnt linked to the Base Rate and the information 
doesnt say this will happen, rather that this may be a reason for a change, I cannot 
say that Cynergy Bank has done anything wrong by not changing the interest rate on 
Mrs Gs ISA account.
Mrs Gs ISA account terms states that if a change is made which is to the customers 
advantage this may happen without advance notice but if a change is made that isnt 
to the customers advantage it will provide 14 days notice. In the case of Mrs Gs 
ISA, Cynergy Bank has confirmed that there have been no changes to the interest 
rate and so no notification has been required. 
Cynergy Bank has launched new issues of its ISA since Mrs G opened her account. I 
understand the comments made about existing customers being disadvantaged by 
not having increases in the Base Rate reflected in increases in the variable rate of 
their existing ISAs and rather new launches benefitting from higher rates. However, 
as the ISA isnt linked to the Base Rate, I cannot say that the increase needed to be 
reflected. I appreciate the point about a proportionate response to the increase in the 
Base Rate, but this is business decision for Cynergy Bank, and it isnt my role to 
determine what a proportionate response would be. I also note Mrs G comments 
about a reduction in the Base Rate most likely being reflected in the variable rate but 
as this hasnt happened, I cannot comment on this further. 
In this case while I understand the concerns, as Mrs Gs ISA isnt fixed, she is able to 
transfer her money to a new issue which benefits from a higher interest rate. While 
Cynergy Bank has said that it doesnt proactively contact consumers to make them 
aware of new issues, nor would it automatically upgrade Mrs Gs existing ISA, as this 
option is available to Mrs G and the information is accessible on Cynergy Banks 
website I find she has the information available to her to ensure she places her 
money in the account most suited to her needs. 
As Mrs G is an existing customer, she would be able to benefit from Cynergy Banks 
fast track application process. I understand this is still a process that is required to be 
undertaken in order to benefit from the best interest rates but this is a choice 
available to Mrs G and I note she opened a new ISA on 25 May 2022 and transferred 
some of her funds from her existing ISA. 
I appreciate that Mrs G believes she has been treated unfairly but as her ISA account 
has been managed in line with the account terms, I cannot say this is the case.
Our role isnt to review Cynergy Banks systems, policies, or procedures but to 
consider any complaint based on its individual merits and to assess whether a bank 
has done something wrong or treated its customer unfairly. In this case I do not find 
this has happened. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Cynergy Bank Limited trading 
as Cynergy Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman