DRN-2695386
The complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt warn her until her mortgage was almost
paid, that she had additional fees and charges on her mortgage which werent being repaid 
through her monthly payment.
 
What happened
Miss F said she found out less than a year from the end of her mortgage that she would
have a large lump sum to pay when the mortgage ends. She said that this was due to action
taken over missed payments several years ago, when she faced great difficulties in her
personal life.
Miss F told us that she doesnt dispute the charges themselves, but shes very upset that
she wasnt told at the time that she owed this money, and it wouldnt just be paid off with the
rest of the mortgage debt. She said if shed known, that she wouldve arranged to make a
very slightly larger payment each month, and could have paid off the additional amount
within the original term of the mortgage. But now she doesnt have that option. Her mortgage
term ends soon, and it wont be paid off.
Miss F said that Barclays had set out some other options  extending her mortgage, making
a large lump sum payment, or significantly increasing her monthly payment. But she said
shes earning less now, and none of these options are suitable for her.
Barclays said that these charges were incurred up to 2006. It has accepted that it shouldve
given Miss F a better explanation of these. It also initially accepted that her monthly payment
shouldve been recalculated each year so that the additional amount was also being paid off.
Barclays has paid £300 off her overall mortgage debt, as an apology.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He proposed a solution, which
would have involved Barclays recalculating Miss Fs monthly payments, then making a
sizeable write-off of part of her debt. Barclays didnt think it had to do that, and said that its
terms say this 
"While your monthly payment will include a payment towards the interest you have to
pay on any charges and costs that have been added to your loan it does not include
a payment towards the charges and costs themselves. This means you will still have
to pay any unpaid charges and costs at the end of the mortgage term. Alternatively
you can pay outstanding charges and costs before the end of the mortgage term if
you wish to avoid paying further interest."
It now says that any annual recalculation of Miss Fs contractual monthly payments wouldnt
have increased her payments to cover these charges. It thinks that these charges shouldve
been covered by a separate repayment plan.
Our investigator accepted that recalculating Miss Fs monthly payment wouldnt have helped.
But he said that he still thought that Barclays shouldve reminded Miss F that these charges
needed to be addressed separately. He didnt think Barclays had done enough on that. So
he still proposed the same outcome.
When Barclays queried this, he said that instead Barclays could keep the interest it had
charged to date on the additional sums added to the mortgage, but should write off the
outstanding balance at the end of Miss Fs mortgage term.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that our investigator had assumed Miss F would have repaid an
extra £20 per month, but she hadnt actually done that. Barclays said she should repay the
sums owed. It asked for this case to be considered by an ombudsman. It was then passed to
me for a final decision.
Miss F wrote to us after this, to say that the outstanding balance on her mortgage had now
increased to £3,327.73.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays says that Miss F hasnt paid the charges on her mortgage which date back 
to 2006 and prior. I note that there was a small amount of arrears prior to 2006 too, 
but Barclays has said that the lump sum it wants Miss F to pay is made up of 
charges. If this lump sum does include a small amount of arrears from 2006 or prior, 
that wouldnt change my overall approach to this case.
Barclays thinks Miss F should pay this now. I note Miss F has accepted that she 
owed this money. So I would usually have expected that Miss F would have to pay 
this. But I would also have expected that Barclays would have contacted Miss F 
when this debt accrued, to make arrangements for her to do this. And that doesnt 
seem to have happened here.
As our investigator has stressed, it isnt fair for Miss F only to find out that she owes 
this extra money, and it isnt being covered by her monthly payment, once she was 
less than a year from the end of her mortgage. Miss F said if shed known about this, 
shed have paid a modest extra amount each month, and the debt wouldve been 
paid some time ago. I accept what she says about that.
Miss F had a capital and interest repayment mortgage. Miss F has had modest 
arrears on her account from time to time, but she has mainly been repaying these 
with extra monthly payments. So there was no obvious reason for Miss F to have 
thought that she would need to pay a large lump sum at the end of her mortgage 
term. Barclays also hasnt suggested that it has offered to reach an arrangement with 
Miss F to repay this money, or otherwise reminded her about the debt, since 2006. 
And Barclays appears to have accepted that it may not have been clear to Miss F 
from its annual mortgage statements that her monthly payments werent enough to 
clear all that she owed within the original term of her mortgage.
Id like to put Miss F as close as I can to the situation she would have been in now, if
Barclays had suggested some time ago that she could make a small increase to her 
monthly payment, and shed done that.
Barclays has told us it does recalculate the contractual monthly payment once a 
year, but that this recalculation didnt include these additional sums. So I think that 
Barclays should rework the mortgage as though it had recalculated Miss Fs 
mortgage on the 2007 mortgage anniversary (30 March 2007). And it should recalculate in such a way that the contractual monthly payment would repay the 
whole balance, including previous arrears, fees and charges, by the end of the 
mortgage term. Barclays doesnt have to include arrears since this date in this 
calculation.
Barclays must then treat this mortgage as if Miss F had made those payments from 
the 2007 recalculation up until the date of my final decision. That will mean that 
Barclays will need to write off at least some of the capital shortfall on this mortgage.
If this decision is finalised before the end of the mortgage term, then Barclays can 
ask Miss F to make any remaining payments in line with this recalculation for the 
remainder of the term.
I think that puts Miss F, as far as possible, back in the situation she wouldve been in, 
if shed been told about the additional debt, and had reached an agreement to pay it 
off. I know that, because Miss F wasnt actually making these slightly larger 
payments, Miss F will have had a very small amount more disposable income 
throughout this time. Ive no reason to think that Miss F hasnt spent this on her 
ordinary living expenses. I dont think it would be fair to ask Miss F to account for this 
now. I think that modest amount of additional income can stand in the place of 
compensation in this case.
Miss F has told us that her income is lower now. So, moving forwards, I would like to 
remind Barclays about the current FCA guidance for taking action to recover 
mortgage arrears given the impact of the global pandemic. I would expect Barclays to 
continue to treat Miss F in line with this guidance as it continues to evolve over time.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss F said she had nothing to add.
Barclays originally got in touch to say it hadnt received the provisional decision. Our service 
resent this, and ensured that Barclays had received it. Barclays didnt respond by the revised 
deadline. 
Miss F has told us that Barclays is still pursuing her for the payment that this complaint 
contests. So our service contacted Barclays to say that, in the interests of fairness to both 
sides, this issue needed to be brought to a close. We gave Barclays a fresh deadline for any 
response it wished to make, but it hasnt replied. So I think that its now appropriate to 
finalise this decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed. 
Barclays must now rework Miss Fs mortgage as though it had recalculated the mortgage on 
the 2007 mortgage anniversary (30 March 2007). And it should recalculate in such a way 
that the contractual monthly payment would repay the whole balance, including previous 
arrears, fees and charges, by the end of the mortgage term. Barclays doesnt have to 
include arrears since this date in this calculation.Barclays must then treat this mortgage as if Miss F had made those payments from the 2007 
recalculation up until the date of my final decision. So Barclays will need to write off at least 
some of the capital shortfall on this mortgage.
I said that if this decision was finalised before the end of the mortgage term, then Barclays 
can ask Miss F to make any remaining payments in line with this recalculation for the 
remainder of the term. I understand that the mortgage term may now have ended. If thats 
right, then this provision falls away.
Im requiring Barclays to write off some of Miss Fs debt. But because this is a complex 
calculation, Im not able to estimate for Miss F how much she may still owe Barclays after 
this reworking has been done. If Miss F accepts my final decision, then she should expect 
Barclays to get in touch with her, with a revised working of her mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must recalculate Miss Fs mortgage, as set 
out in my decision above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman