DRN-3972000
The complaint
Mr L1 complains about the settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered for the 
loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants to be paid the 
cars correct market value. Mr L1 is represented in this matter by his father, Mr L2, a named 
driver on his policy. 
What happened
Mr L1 was involved in an accident and Admiral deemed his car to be beyond economical 
repair. Admiral offered Mr L1 £15,650, less the £550 policy excess, in settlement of his 
claim. But Mr L2 said they couldnt replace the car for this amount. He said the car was rare, 
in immaculate condition and with low mileage. He said a similar car was advertised for sale 
at £19,500. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She found valuations 
for Mr L1s car in four of the motor trade guides we use. One of these was an outlier and so, 
in keeping with our approach, it would usually be discounted. But she thought that it should 
be included to obtain a fair valuation of Mr L1s car because of its rarity. So she took an 
average of the four valuations and thought Admiral should increase its settlement offer to 
£16,009.50. 
Admiral replied that it disagreed as it thought its settlement offer was in keeping with our 
approach. Mr L2 replied that he thought the guides were wrong and didnt reflect current 
market prices or the rarity of the car. He thought Admiral should increase its offer to £19,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L1 wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. The Investigator 
has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator checked the motor trade guides we use. I can see that she looked for cars 
of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr L1s car at the 
date of its loss. Three of the valuations she found were in keeping with Admirals offer, but 
one valuation was significantly higher. 
I accept that when one of the guides valuation is significantly different to the others, our 
approach is usually to discount it. But Im not satisfied that this would lead to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this particular case. This is because I can see that Mr L1s car was 
rare, and few examples are advertised for sale. 
Current market conditions mean that the values of second-hand cars are changing rapidly. In 
some cases, this has meant the motor trade guides have been unable to reflect the current 
market in the valuations. This is especially so in the case of rare cars where few examples 
have been sold. So we dont automatically discount a guide as an outlier. Where we can see 
that a certain guide is more in line with adverts the consumer or business have sent us, we 
may decide it is reasonable to use this to work out the market value. 
Mr L2 provided adverts for similar cars sold at much higher prices, but these were not in 
keeping with any of the motor trade guide valuations. Our Investigator also found examples 
of similar cars advertised for sale at higher prices than Admirals offer, but at lower prices 
than Mr L2 found. These were closer to the outlier valuation provided by the motor trade 
guide. So I have considered these here and Im not persuaded that the outlier valuation 
should be dismissed as I think it provides a reflection of the current market value. 
And I think a fairer valuation for Mr L1s car would be an average of the four valuations from 
the motor trade guides we use, £16,009.50. And so I agree with the Investigators view that 
Admirals settlement offer was too low and therefore it wasnt reasonable. And it should 
increase it to this amount, with interest from the date of the initial payment as Mr L1 has 
been without his money for some time. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to increase its valuation of Mr L1s car to 
£16,009.50 and pay him the difference between this amount and its previous payment. 
Interest should be added to this difference at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
of the initial payment to the date of the final settlement. 
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L1 how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L1 a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman