DRN-3463359
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly removed funds from two
business accounts it held and closed all of its accounts. It wants the funds which
were removed refunded and compensation for how it was impacted by Barclays.
What happened
I covered the background facts of Us complaint in my provisional decision. But I have 
repeated them now for the purposes of this final decision.
Mr S is the director of U, a limited company, and brings this complaint on its behalf. Mr S
was also a personal account holder with Barclays, but this decision only concerns the
accounts held by U.
U held business accounts with Barclays. In May 2020 it received two large payments, one of
which was paid to its current account, and one to its currency account. U says the payments
were made in relation to the supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) in the form of 
gloves. It was the agent of the seller and it agreed with the seller to use its accounts on its 
behalf.
Barclays closed all of Us accounts with immediate effect, and prevented U accessing the
payments. It subsequently decided to return the payments back to the sending bank
following a recall request. During this time two of Us accounts showed as substantially
overdrawn, although the accounts werent actually overdrawn.
I issued a provisional decision on Us complaint in August this year. I didnt find that Barclays 
should pay U compensation. I said:
The brunt of Us complaint is that two large sums of money were removed from its business
current account and currency account. But importantly, although U held the funds, it was as
the sellers agent  so it wasnt the intended beneficiary of the funds. The payments were for
PPE gloves the seller was to send to the buyer subject to a commercial agreement.
Im satisfied both payments were returned to the buyers bank. And, ultimately, I find the
sums that were returned dont represent a direct financial loss experienced by U, although I
understand it says it suffered consequential losses by not being able to send the funds on to
the seller.
My role in determining Us complaint is not to consider the losses of persons who arent
eligible complainants under the dispute resolution rules (DISP). DISP forms part of the
Financial Conduct Authoritys regulatory handbook and sets out much of our services
powers and jurisdiction.
Neither the seller nor the buyer of the PPE is eligible to complain to our service about this
matter under DISP. Barclays did not have a customer relationship with either party. And
although U is eligible to complain, this doesnt mean I should consider the sellers potential
loss because U was its agent.
Im not here to determine the liabilities of two third parties in relation to their commercial
agreement. That would be a matter suited to a court of law to decide, which can fairly
consider both parties respective positions. So, I wont be directing Barclays to refund the
disputed sums to U for it to pass on to the seller.
Barclays have important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened.
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, verify sources
of income, and to detect and help prevent financial crime. Its common industry practice for
firms to restrict access to funds to conduct a review in line with their responsibilities  this
helps mitigate against potential financial or other harm which might occur if there wasnt a
restriction.
I have considered why Barclays stopped U accessing the payments and I understand their 
reasons. The payments didnt accord with the information they held about the nature of Us
business or previous account activity. And while I understand U decided to become involved
in the PPE market at a time of much demand, this didnt negate the reasonability of Barclays 
restricting access to the funds to carry out a review. They werent obliged to
forewarn U of their decision or provide their reasons.
A firm shouldnt generally act against their customers mandate. But sometimes its
reasonable to act without the consent of a customer to comply with legal and regulatory
responsibilities. Barclays decision to remove both sums and send them back appears to
have been prompted by the recall request they received, so I have considered whether their 
actions were reasonable.
Mr S has provided copies of a commercial agreement, agency agreement and emails
between the seller, himself, and the buyer about payment arrangements regarding a large
supply of PPE gloves. And, while the payments U received represented unusual activity, this
was at a time when many businesses found alternative income steams due to the Covid 
pandemic - the supply of PPE being one of them. So, although Barclays received a recall
request, I cant see the request and the other reasons they provided to our service were
enough to send the funds back without further enquiry and investigation.
But neither can I fairly conclude that had Barclays carried out a better investigation that they
should have allowed U access to the funds. I simply cannot make a fair judgement on this
point because, as I have explained previously, its not for me to determine the respective
positions of either the buyer or the seller. Barclays had received a recall request from the
buyers bank, so clearly someone wanted the funds back, and, although disputed by U, the
request may have had a legitimate basis. Its also clear in the emails U provided,
that there was contention about what further monies needed to be paid before goods
were supplied.
U says it lost a lucrative contract as a result of Barclays actions, its being threatened with
legal action, and its reputation suffered. I find Barclays handling of this matter was lacking,
but I cant fairly conclude that had they done things properly, this would have resulted in U
having access to the funds. So, I am not directing Barclays to compensate U for any
losses which stemmed from not being able to send the funds to the seller.
Barclays can terminate a customer relationship and they dont need to give their reasons totheir customers. Here, Barclays closed Us business accounts without notice. I dont find
Barclays had enough information to reasonably apply their immediate closure terms. But I 
also cant see the immediate closure of the business accounts represented a loss to U which
warrants compensation. I say this because other than the disputed payments, I cant see the
accounts held significant balances or that they were used regularly by U.
I appreciate Mr S has been impacted personally by this matter. I was sorry to hear about his
experience. But I cannot award U compensation based on the distress and inconvenience
he may have suffered due to Barclays actions. U is a separate legal person to him, and I can
only consider losses it experienced. So, while I understand the removal and sending back of
the funds and seeing two business accounts as substantially overdrawn was shocking to
Mr S, I am not compensating U for how he felt.
Neither Barclays nor Mr S on behalf of U has responded to my provisional decision within 
the deadline I set. I find each party has had enough time to respond, so I have proceeded to 
make a final decision based on the information I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to direct Barclays to pay U compensation for the same reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision. Those findings are repeated above, and they form my findings for 
this final decision.
My final decision
I have decided not to require Barclays to pay U compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman