DRN-3344960
The complaint
Mr R says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan provided by Everyday Loans for £1500 to Mr R in May 2018.
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have been 
given the loan. Everyday Loans disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Rs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr R would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Everyday Loans wouldve been able 
to do so?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr R ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
R. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr R, it asked him for 
information about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. It also 
verified his income by requesting a months worth of bank statements. Based on those 
checks Everyday Loans thought it was fair to lend.
Mr R was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Rs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate. 
Did Everyday Loans make fair lending decisions?
I have concluded Everyday Loans made proportionate checks. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information those checks show. Those results might sometimes lead a lender to undertake 
further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some cases, the results might 
lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. This is what I think Everyday Loans 
should have done.
Everyday Loans obtained bank statements from Mr R when he applied for his loan. On these 
statements that Everyday Loans would have had in front of it, it shows that Mr R was having 
problems managing his finances. I say this because the bank statements showed Mr R to be 
well over his overdraft limit a number of times. In addition, the statements show bank 
charges and a returned direct debit fee along with a payment made by Mr R to a debt 
management company. I agree with the investigator as well that overall, the statements did 
not show that Mr R held the disposable income that Everyday Loans had assessed him to 
have. In conclusion, I think the bank statements that Everyday Loans had in front of it shows Mr R 
was having problems managing his finances at that time and also show on balance, that he 
wouldnt have been able to repay the loan repayments in a sustainable way. On seeing all of 
this Everyday Loans shouldnt have made a decision to lend to him.
Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman