DRN-2821269
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H purchased a branded lifetime pet insurance policy in 2017 where Great Lakes is the 
underwriter. Because the underwriter is ultimately responsible for issues with the policy 
wording and claims I will refer to all actions as being those of Great Lakes.
In August 2020 Mrs H made a claim under the policy for an advanced treatment of stem cell 
therapy to her dog, who I will call H. Great Lakes paid the claim but said it was a gesture of 
goodwill as an exclusion had recently been applied to the policy and advanced treatments, 
such as stem cell therapy, werent covered. This meant no further claims for advanced 
treatments would be paid.
Mrs H complained saying that two previous claims for stem cell therapy had been paid under 
the policy. Great Lakes said the claims had been paid as a gesture of goodwill as the policy 
wording didnt show clearly that advanced treatments werent covered. But theyd recently 
made the policy wording clearer and added a specific exclusion. 
Remaining unhappy Mrs H brought her complaint to our service saying that Great Lakes 
should continue to cover advanced treatments such stem cell therapy. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought the exclusion should be removed 
and that the cover should continue to be provided on the terms Mrs H had agreed to at the 
start of the policy. 
Great Lakes maintained that even though there was a weakness in the original policy 
wording, and they had paid the previous claims as a gesture of goodwill, they were able to 
apply the exclusion. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the most important thing here is that this is a lifetime pet policy for H. Whilst the policy 
is a renewable contract, cover should be provided for the lifetime of the pet based on the 
terms agreed between the underwriter and the policyholder at the start date. This is what 
makes lifetime pet insurance policies different to other types of renewable policies. 
Policyholders take lifetime pet cover for the reassurance that their pet will be covered, in 
accordance with the original policy documents, for their lifetime as long as the policy 
continues to be renewed.
Here Great Lakes Insurance SE are seeking to change the level of cover from what was 
agreed when the policy was taken out. By their own admission the policy wording wasnt 
clear that advanced treatments werent covered. It may be that Great Lakes never meant to 
cover advanced treatments under the policy. And if that was the case then they shouldve 
made it clear in the policy documents; but it wasnt. 
With lifetime pet policies things such as premiums and excesses can change, but nothing 
that affects the main scope of cover should change. It seems that Great Lakes are trying to 
take away part of the cover for H which I dont think is fair.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied that its neither fair nor reasonable for 
Great Lakes to apply an exclusion and change the level of cover being provided. There was 
no clear exclusion for advanced treatments such as stem cell therapy when the policy 
started. Therefore cover should be provided for the lifetime of the policy as long as it 
continues to be renewed.
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should remove the policy exclusion for advanced treatments, 
such as stem cell therapy, on Mrs Hs policy and continue to provide cover for H. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Great Lakes Insurance SE should take the actions outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman