DRN-4187666
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed in making an international transfer 
which caused him to lose a property he was purchasing, and when the funds were returned 
to him they were less than he had sent.  He says he also received poor service.
What happened
Mr K tried to transfer £112,000 from his Nationwide account to his father overseas to 
purchase a property. 
He made the payment in branch by swift transfer on 9 August 2021.  The funds didnt reach 
his father. 
Mr K spent a lot of time chasing Nationwide and trying to find out what had happened, he 
responded to all of the queries that were raised with him by Nationwide, but the funds were 
eventually returned to his account without explanation on 13 October 2021. When they were 
returned, due to the currency exchange, they were £4378.74 less than the sum that was 
sent.  
Nationwide issued a final response on 12 September. They said that they werent 
responsible for any issues with the delay to the payment being made as they had no control 
over the payment once it had left the country. 
Mr K was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to us. He said he has lost 
£4378.74 in exchange of currency, £5600 as a non-completion penalty, and his deposit of 
£18000. He also feels that his father has been inconvenienced and should be compensated.  
One of our investigators looked into it and he didnt think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
The failed transaction
Nationwide use a UK intermediary bank to make their international transfers and so they 
forwarded Mr Ks funds for transfer to them. The intermediary stopped the payment for 
compliance checks which it sent to Nationwide on 12 August. 
These were completed by Nationwide and sent to the intermediary on 16 August and the 
payment was released by the intermediary bank on 24 August to the overseas intermediary 
bank. 
On 23 August, Mr K first raised a complaint with Nationwide about the delay in his father 
receiving the payment. Although at this point there had been some delay, I dont consider 
that this is unusual in these sorts of transactions, and Nationwide had complied with the 
intermediarys queries up to this point in a timely manner.
   
However, what happened after that appears to be less clear. I have seen evidence that on 
13 September, the overseas intermediary bank returned the funds to the UK intermediary 
bank and cancelled the transfer. They told Mr K that it was because they hadnt received a 
response to queries they had raised with the UK bank.
So, Ive tried to establish who was responsible for this failure to provide the information by 
reviewing all the e mail exchanges provided to me by Nationwide and Mr K. If the fault lies 
with Nationwide, then I would consider that they are responsible for the failure of the 
transaction. 
In the original request for information on 12 August 2021, the intermediary bank said:
Please provide the information requested in the table below. A response is required no later 
than 4 working days from the date of this email to avoid funds being returned.
To submit the additional information, simply:
 reply (with history) to this email
 complete all mandatory fields in the table below
 check and send the email.  
There were 19 questions, which were all asterixed as mandatory. Nationwides response 
populated only 9 of the fields, leaving a number of questions blank, but in particular omitted 
Mr Ks passport number, relationship with the beneficiary, and the purpose of the transaction 
- which I would have thought was the most important question from a money laundering 
check point of view. 
On 31 August Nationwide asked Mr K for some more information about the transaction, and 
he responded the same day with the requested information.
On 9 September, the UK intermediary bank again asked Nationwide for some information. 
They said that the payment was being held, and they needed further information about the 
originator, including his full name and address, date and place of birth, nationality, passport 
number, and fathers name. It said that a response was needed no late than 0 working days 
 which I assume to mean it needs an immediate response. 
Nationwide responded 6 days later on 15 September, two days after the funds were sent 
back to the UK intermediary.  
 
Nationwide and the UK intermediary bank have been unable to provide me with their 
exchanges with the overseas intermediary, but Im satisfied that the UK intermediary 
wouldnt have been asking questions on 9 September if they hadnt come from the overseas 
intermediary given that they no longer held the funds in the UK. 
Im also satisfied that Nationwide had previously been asked for some of this information in 
August and had failed to provide it, and that when requested in September they failed to 
provide it as quickly as they should have. Nationwide have accepted in their correspondence 
to me that they didnt provide it in line with their service level agreement of 2 days. 
So, on balance, I think the fault for the failure of this transaction lies with Nationwide, as if 
they had complied with the information requests properly, and in time, the funds would most 
likely have reached their destination. Following the failure of the transaction, Nationwide accepted the funds back on 23 
September, agreeing to a loss on return due to the exchange rate.
Mr K wasnt made aware of this, and on 1 October,  Nationwide raised further queries with 
Mr K about the purpose of the funds. They said that these queries had been raised by the 
beneficiary and intermediary banks. Mr K replied on 5 October but then on 9 October he was 
told that the funds had been returned by the overseas bank several weeks previously due to 
no response received from the ordering bank. 
In view of my findings above, I propose to direct Nationwide to award Mr K the loss he 
incurred on the return of the funds. 
I note that Mr K has also advised that he suffered consequential losses because he was 
unable to complete the purchase of a house, losing his deposit and a non-completion 
penalty. However, I havent seen any evidence of this, and so Im not able to make that 
award.  
 Poor service
 
I can see that Mr K was chasing Nationwide for information on the progress of the 
transaction from around 23 August. He responded promptly to all requests for information, 
but he received no updates. He went into the branch several times following his father 
visiting the receiving bank and finding out there was no progress, and became quite 
frustrated by the process and the lack of information. 
As I have said above, Nationwide failed to request information until it was too late, and even 
after they knew the funds were being returned, they were still asking questions. So, I think 
the service here fell below the standard that Mr K was entitled to expect, and I am minded to 
make an award for distress and inconvenience
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide have made no further comment, and Mr K has accepted the decision, although 
he thinks I should consider increasing the compensation element of my decision. He has 
also said that he would like to donate the interest element of the proposed award to charity  
which is entirely his prerogative.   
Ive thought about whether to increase the compensation element, but I think that £300 is fair 
in the circumstances. And so, in light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with 
my provisional findings.
 
Putting things right
In order to out things right Nationwide should:
 Pay Mr K £4378.74  in respect of the loss he incurred on the return of the funds
 Pay Mr K 8% simple interest on that sum from 13 October 2021 to the date of 
settlement. If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
 Pay Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to repeatedly 
chase Nationwide to try and find out what was happening and for being provided with 
little and incorrect information.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Ks complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society 
to put things right as outlined above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman