DRN-2194687
The complaint
Mr D is director of a company Ill refer to as H. Hes complained on Hs behalf that           
AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim on the business interruption section of their 
commercial insurance policy. 
Mr D is represented in this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and 
comments at being those of Mr D. 
What happened
H claimed on their policy after their business was interrupted by problems with the water 
supply. AXA appointed a loss adjuster to look into things. The loss adjuster said Mr D 
reported that the water supply passed through the neighbours property and the supply had 
been turned off by the neighbour. The loss adjuster added that the problems stopped once 
Mr D changed the water supply to bypass the neighbours premises.  
 
AXA said as the water supply had been deliberately turned off by the neighbour, then what 
happened wasnt covered by the policy. It said there was no damage to the property from an 
insured cause and it wasnt covered by the failure of public supply term because there 
wasnt an accidental failure at the public supply terminal ends of the supplier feeds.  
Mr D brought Hs complaint to us, as he didnt think AXA had any proof about what had 
caused the problems with the water supply. He said the interruption to Hs business had 
caused significant losses.  
 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think Hs complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think the water supply being turned off met the definition of damage or was accidental. 
 
Mr D didnt agree, as AXA didnt have a report from the utility company. He felt that the water 
supply was interrupted, so the claim should be covered. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When claiming on their policy the onus is on H to show they have a loss thats caused by 
something covered by the policy. In this case AXA has said H hasnt done this because the 
water was deliberately turned off by a neighbour and that isnt a loss thats covered by the 
policy. 
Ive spoken to Mr D and understand that his neighbour has told him she didnt turn the water 
off. And the water company havent been able to provide anything to confirm what 
happened, although they suggested to Mr D that it was most likely his neighbour turning off 
the water.  
 
I understand that Mr D would like AXA to provide proof from the utility company about what 
caused the failure of the water supply, but I dont think it needs to. I say that because its for 
Mr D to show that theres a loss covered by the policy. On the basis of what Ive seen, I think 
its reasonable for AXA to say Mr D hasnt shown H has suffered an insured loss, and Ill now 
explain why.  
 
The terms of the policy say AXA will cover interruption to Hs business if any property used 
by you at your premises for the purpose of the business suffers damage provided a 
payment has been made or liability accepted under the Building or Contents section of 
this policy or any other insurance covering your premises. 
 
As there hasnt been damage to the building or contents, and a claim hasnt been made 
under either of those sections, I dont think this term covers Hs claim.  
 
The policy also has a term that covers failure of public supply. This term says AXA will 
cover business interruption or interference as a result of the accidental failure of public 
supplies of electricity, gas or water at the terminal ends of your suppliers service feeds, 
meters or stop cocks to the premises. 
 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that Hs water supply failed, or was turned off, accidentally. Or 
that what happened was most likely due to any of the other circumstances covered by this 
term. So, Im not going to interfere with AXAs decision to say Hs loss isnt covered under 
this term. 
 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but I think AXA acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when turning down Hs 
claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman