DRN-4370591
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited didnt carry out sufficient 
affordability checks before lending to him.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H acquired a car through a Hire Purchase agreement with BMW. The 
cash price of the car was £58,193.87, no advance payment was made, and with added 
interest the total repayable was £67,925.26. With monthly instalments of £839.88 over 48 
months.
Mr H said hed had previous agreements with BMW but the repayments for this car were 
double what hed previously paid. Mr H said BMW didnt check whether he could afford the 
loan. And he struggled to maintain his instalments. He also said he was persuaded to take 
on optional extras, and that the dealer was paid a high level of commission. Mr H said hed 
had to sell the car at a greatly depreciated value and borrowed from family to settle the loan 
agreement. He complained to BMW.
BMW said that Mr H had two previous agreements, prior to the lending complained about 
with them. They said Mr H hadnt made them aware of any difficulties in repaying the loan 
and that hed maintained his repayments under the agreement which was settled in August 
2022. In checking the affordability of the lending BMW said they carried out an automated 
credit worthiness assessment using credit scoring criteria, internal policies, and data from 
credit reference agencies. And from the information theyd obtained they deemed the lending 
was affordable for Mr H. They said the commission and optional extras had been made clear 
to Mr H at the time he acquired the car. 
Mr H wasnt happy with BMWs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that BMW should have done more to check whether the loan was 
affordable. And if they had theyd have seen that the loan wasnt affordable as Mr H had 
insufficient disposable income to meet the monthly repayments. He said BMW should:
Refund any payments Mr H has made in excess of £58,193.87, representing the 
original cash price of the car. Adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
He also said that as this put Mr H back into the position he would have been in if the finance 
agreement hadnt been taken out. There wasnt any detriment for Mr H in respect of any 
commission that had been paid.
BMW responded to the part of Mr Hs complaint about commission. But didnt respond to the 
affordability outcome. So, the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did BMW complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr H  would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did BMW make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BMW act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time BMW lent to Mr H required them to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. The 
affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning BMW needs to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr H. In other words, it wasnt enough for BMW to think only about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr H himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for. We take the view that a reasonable 
and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income)
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an 
extended period), and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
So, Ive considered whether BMW in lending to Mr H had been thorough in the checks they 
made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to him.
I can see BMWs affordability assessment was an automated process and they based their 
decision to lend on known data. They said theyd measures in place to highlight any concerns found within the data and that this would have prompted a manual underwriting 
review. BMW said none of the measures were triggered that indicated there was anything in 
Mr Hs credit history to indicate current or potential difficulties in affording the loan and being 
able to maintain the repayments. BMW also said that Mr H had two previous agreements 
with them that hed maintained his repayments. I can see from his credit file that Mr H had at 
the time a loan payable by instalments of £452 over 48 months. 
But given Mr Hs indebtedness would be increased by over £65,000, and his monthly 
repayment would go up from £452 to around £840, I dont think the checks carried out by 
BMW went far enough as I think they should have looked to see what Mr Hs actual financial 
situation was.
From the credit history that BMW saw, not taking into account the existing car loan of £452 a 
month as this would be replaced by the new agreement. Mr H had an unsecured loan 
payable at £226 per month over 60 months, a credit card with a limit of £2,000, an annual 
insurance of £750 and a communications contract. The loan application showed Mr H was 
employed full time in the construction industry.
As previously mentioned, there isnt a set list of checks that a lender should do. And Im not 
saying BMW needed to ask for bank statements to verify Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
But for us its probably the most efficient way to work out whether the lending was affordable.
Ive looked at Mr Hs bank statements for the three months prior to the loan being taken out. 
And I can see that  Mr Hs employment income varied, ranging from around £1,100 up to 
around £4,550 a month. On average Mr Hs income was around £2,794 across the three 
months.  And his non-discretionary expenditure was on average £2,429. This includes rent, 
credit card, existing loan, insurance, phones , bank fees, food, petrol and other motoring 
costs. Leaving Mr H with a disposable income of around £365.
I have considered other items on Mr Hs bank statement showing transactions in and out of 
the account. These transactions seem to be related to family and friends. And I can see a 
correlation between the transactions. In the three months leading up to the loan on average 
Mr H had a further £364 available income. Which I think gave him a potential disposable 
income of £729. I can see there was other non-essential spending which I havent taken 
account of as Mr H had the choice whether to spend this money or not. 
As Mr Hs disposable income, at most around £729 would have been less than the monthly 
instalment of around £840, I think if BMW had seen the same information, they wouldnt 
have agreed to lend to Mr H.
Mr H also complained about the level of commission paid when the loan was agreed. As I've 
already found that BMW shouldnt have entered into this agreement with Mr H as it ought to 
have realised that it was unaffordable for him. Im satisfied that my proposed method of 
putting things right for Mr H  as a result of this, effectively places him in the position he would 
now be in had his agreement never existed. I think that this also unwinds the impact of any 
commission that BMW might have paid to the broker for introducing Mr H. As this is the 
case, I dont think there is any need for me to look at the complaint about commission as 
upholding this part of the complaint wouldnt make a difference to the overall outcome
Putting things right
Mr H has settled the loan agreement with BMW in August 2022 and has since sold the car. 
Our approach in situations such as these is to put the consumer back into the position theyd 
have been in if the loan agreement hadnt been taken out. The original cash price of the car was £58,193.87, to put things right, Mr H shouldnt have to 
pay any more than this. So, BMW should refund Mr H any amount hed paid in excess of the 
cash price, adding 8% simple interest. And remove any adverse information recorded about 
the agreement to Mr Hs credit file.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
Refund Mr H any payments hed made above the cash price of £58,193.87 adding 
*8% simple interest from date of payment to date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file with regard to the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must give Mr H a certificate showing how 
much tax theyve taken off should Mr H ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman