DRN-3827191
The complaint
Miss K complained to Ageas Insurance Limited about the poor service she says it provided 
and the valuation it gave for her car when it was declared a total loss. Miss K made a claim 
under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss K was unfortunately involved in an accident with another vehicle. She reported the 
incident and made a claim to her insurer, Ageas.
Ageas settled the claim as a total loss as the extent of the damage to her car made it 
unrepairable. So Ageas paid Miss K the market value for her car in line with the policy terms. 
Miss K made a series of complaints to Ageas about the way it dealt with the claim. Unhappy 
with the response from Ageas, Miss K asked to look at the following complaints: 
Ageas didnt appoint an independent engineer to provide an accurate valuation of her 
car. It didnt take into account the condition and service history of her car when 
providing a valuation. 
Ageas didnt consider adverts for similar cars she sent as she didnt agree with the 
valuation it gave for her car.
Ageas failed to respond in a timely manner to her while dealing with the claim and in 
particular during one call, she was waiting for almost an hour to speak to an agent. 
To put things right, Miss K said she wanted Ageas to properly train its staff and to provide an 
accurate valuation for her car. She said it was very upsetting to be involved in an accident 
and Ageas handling of her claim added to the stress and upset she felt. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Miss Ks complaints should be upheld. He found the 
valuation Ageas had reached for Miss Ks car was fair and in line with the policy and our 
approach. He didnt find Ageas had provided a poor service. The phone number Miss K had 
called when she was on hold for almost an hour wasnt listed in Miss Ks policy documents 
as a contact in the event of a car insurance claim. 
Miss K didnt agree. In summary she says Ageas didnt properly address her concerns and 
referred her to this service instead. She believes Ageas has cherry picked information from 
her complaint. It only provided a copy of the engineers report to her after she complained 
and there was a lack of communication. 
So Miss K wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas responded to Miss Ks complaints in two letters dated 19 May 2022 and 6 June 2022. 
The first response was in relation to Miss Ks complaint that the valuation Ageas reached 
was too low. The second was in relation to the service Miss K received. 
Miss Ks policy with Ageas says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of her car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as:
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, 
age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage 
happened.
As the Investigator explained, we have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. 
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
We find the main motor trade guides are a reliable way to value a car. They provide 
estimated values using research on selling prices for a car of the same make, model, age, 
condition and mileage as the car being valued. We find adverts tend to be less reliable as 
they can vary widely and have a margin built in for negotiating a lower price. 
Ageas doesnt have to appoint an independent engineer to provide a valuation. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer to have its own team of qualified engineers to provide valuations for 
claims. So I dont think Ageas was unreasonable in arranging a desktop valuation of Miss 
Ks car using a number of clear photos to decide a valuation. 
I understand Miss K is unhappy that the engineers report wasnt provided to her until she 
raised a complaint. But I dont think providing a copy of the engineers report made a 
difference to the outcome. Having checked the motor trade guides, the total loss settlement 
Ageas paid Miss K is within the range of the guides. The report shows the engineer referred 
to the guides when reaching their decision. The valuations are based on the guides retail 
transacted values. In other words, this is an estimated value for a car similar to Miss Ks that 
somebody would pay for at a retail garage, so in good condition. So I think Ageas reached 
its valuation for Miss Ks reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Miss K provided a screenshot of a telephone number and the length of call is recorded as 
being just under an hour. She says this shows Ageas provided a poor service to her. In 
response, Ageas said it couldnt trace any call with Miss K lasting longer than 25 minutes. 
Our Investigator checked the number on the screenshot and found it didnt connect to Ageas 
car insurance. As there is no evidence Ageas provided this number to Miss K to contact it 
about her car insurance claim, I cant safely conclude that Ageas is responsible for the long 
wait time Miss K had when she called this number about her claim. 
I understand Miss K is very upset about the accident she was involved in. And I can 
appreciate that having to deal with any claim can cause some distress and inconvenience. 
Miss K says when the original agent handling her claim left Ageas, there were delays in 
reviewing adverts she provided to dispute the valuation. Where there is disagreement 
between the parties, this will inevitably involve more communication and time. But from the 
information Ive seen, I dont think Ageas dealt with Miss Ks claim in an unreasonable way. 
Before leaving Ageas, the original agent reviewed the adverts provided by Miss K and 
responded to her valuation complaint. 
I think Ageas has paid a fair valuation for Miss Ks car and in a reasonable period of time. As 
Miss K didnt agree, and Ageas had responded to her complaint, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of it to then refer her to this service. This was the next appropriate step to take 
with her complaint. My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman