DRN-3504986
The complaint
Mr T complains WDP Insurance Limited automatically renewed his mobile phone insurance 
policy for five years, without sending annual renewal reminders. Mr T also complains the 
policy offers no value, and it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr T took out his policy in June 2018. In January 2022, he contacted WDP to make a claim 
after his mobile phone was damaged. In view of the £40 policy excess, he decided not to 
proceed with the claim. Instead, he cancelled the policy and complained.
In WDPs final response letter, it set out the following:
- Mr T had complained about the policy excess, and about the policy automatically 
renewing for five years without an annual reminder.
- In June 2018, Mr T was sent a welcome pack which included the policy terms and 
conditions. The information made it clear theres a £40 excess, and that the policy 
automatically renews every month for five years (after which it ends).
Mr T brought his complaint to our service. He explained, at the time of taking the policy out, 
£5 per month seemed a fair deal. However, he assumed he would be contacted every year 
to be given the option to cancel or renew. Mr T also explained he didnt realise he had the 
policy until December 2021, when he noticed the £5 monthly debits from his bank account. 
He questioned the value of the policy given a £40 excess must be paid for a refurbished 
phone of the insured model.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mr T disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
In response to our investigators findings, Mr T clarified that the policy terms and conditions 
arent in dispute, and nor is he complaining about the application of the policy excess. He 
acknowledged that WDP had honoured the terms of the contract. 
Mr T explained his complaint is about how the policy was sold, and about it automatically 
renewing for five years without reminders. He said there wasnt an opportunity to cancel. 
Mr T also reiterated his concern about the value of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale
The policy is administered by Asurion Europe Limited. Having been in contact with Asurion, 
it says the policy was sold by Tesco Mobile Limited. In other words, WDP, the insurer, isnt 
responsible for Mr Ts mis-sale complaint. So, whilst Mr T would like us to consider the 
policy sale, Im unable to do that here, under a complaint against WDP.
Asurion says Mr T hasnt previously complained about the sale, and its provided its phone 
notes from when he complained about the policy excess and the rolling contract. Those 
notes dont refer to the sale, so I accept what Asurion says. 
Asurion also says the sale wasnt a regulated activity. So, it says a complaint about the sale 
wouldnt be within our jurisdiction.
Im not considering whether a sale complaint would be within our jurisdiction. Before we do 
that, Mr T needs to make his sale complaint to Tesco Mobile. If he remains unhappy with 
Tescos response, or if it doesnt respond within eight weeks, he can then refer a new 
complaint to our service about Tesco. If he does so, we will consider the issue of our 
jurisdiction at that point.
Other complaint points
The complaint points that relate to WDP, are:
- the automatic renewal of the policy for five years, without reminders;
- the lack of opportunity to cancel; and
- the value of the policy.
The policy terms explain a) the policy automatically renews every month after the first month, 
for 59 months, and b) the policy can be cancelled at any time within the five-year period, and 
cover will finish at the end of that monthly period. Therefore, whilst Mr T says there was no 
opportunity to cancel the policy, and whilst I accept the policy automatically renewed every 
month, it could be cancelled at any time without further charge. I also find the terms to be 
sufficiently clear, and not misleading, on this issue.
Nonetheless, I can understand Mr Ts frustration if he hadnt previously noticed the £5 being 
taken from his bank account every month. I accept being reminded about the policy would 
have been helpful to him, and we generally consider annual reminders to be good industry 
practice. However, WDP wasnt obligated to send reminders, and here, Mr T still had the 
handset that was being covered. As such, WDP continued to be subject to risk and Mr T 
continued to benefit from the policy. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that WDP 
should refund any premiums.
I can also understand Mr T questioning the value of the policy. For instance, paying the £40 
excess in year five for a refurbished five-year-old model, may not be worthwhile for some 
people if they would rather put their £40 towards a new phone and the latest model. But 
equally, others may prefer to pay a £40 excess and receive an old phone than have the 
outlay of a new phone. Ultimately, I dont find the policy terms about the excess or the 
replacement phone to be misleading. Its for each person to decide whether the policy 
provides value to them, in view of their own individual circumstances.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman