DRN-3830610
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £27,000 
he says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat all the details 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr A says he fell victim to an investment scam with a fraudulent telecoms company, which 
had been facilitated through an investment platform that purported to offer ethical Islamic 
investment opportunities. His investment was linked to the wholesale of mobile phones, and 
he knew of one of his friends who had also invested over £100,000 in the telecoms company 
and was making good returns. 
Mr A realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw his investment and 
asked Barclays to refund the money he had lost under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. However, Barclays refused as it considered the matter to be a civil 
buyer/seller dispute rather than a scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied that the investment opportunity was 
a scam rather than a civil dispute and said that Barclays ought to provide a refund under the 
CRM Code. Barclays failed to respond to the investigators view, so the matter has been 
escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate Barclays considers Mr A dispute to be a civil matter given that he did 
receive some returns from his initial investment. But theres evidence to suggest the 
telecoms company was operating a Ponzi scheme here, and I note that several other 
banks have accepted this to be a scam (from other individuals who also lost their 
money to the same company). Having reviewed all the relevant information, and 
having received information from other relevant parties, Im also satisfied this was a 
scam and would therefore fall to be considered under the CRM Code.
Ive considered whether Mr A failed to take the requisite level of care required for 
Barclays to choose not to reimburse him under the CRM Code, which requires 
payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, in all but limited circumstances. It is for 
Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under 
one, or more, of the exceptions set out in the CRM Code. The exceptions relevant to 
this case are that the customer ignored an effective warning, or had no reasonable 
basis for believing the payee was legitimate.
Barclays have provided no evidence of an effective warning having been issued at 
the point Mr A made any of the payments. So, it has not established that he failed to 
meet his requisite level of care by ignoring an effective warning.
I also dont think Barclays has been able to establish that Mr A did not have a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was making legitimate payments. He was 
introduced to the investment by a friend who was also making returns at the time. 
This meant he had little reason to doubt it was a genuine opportunity, as it had come 
recommended from a friend rather than someone who had approached him out of the 
blue. Mr A said that he researched the telecoms company online and saw they were 
registered on Companies House as well as being listed on Hot UK Deals and having 
working eBay accounts. 
Mr A also received returns on his initial investment, which is a common tactic used by 
scammers (particularly in Ponzi schemes) in order to entice their victims to invest 
larger sums. But it would have given Mr A the reassurance that he was investing in a 
legitimate opportunity as everything appeared as though he was making a return on 
his investment, and that he was able to make withdrawals.
So, Im not persuaded Barclays has been able to establish that Mr A lacked a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were genuine, and I dont consider he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the Code. Im not satisfied that 
Barclays met its standards as a firm under the CRM Code either as it has not been 
able to demonstrate that it provided any effective warning to Mr A despite there being 
an identifiable APP scam risk. Therefore, I conclude that Barclays should have 
reimbursed Mr A under the provisions of the CRM Code.
I also note that Barclays failed to meet its service level agreement for completing the 
fraud claim Mr A had raised. And I acknowledge that its failure to refund his money 
under the Code when he first made the claim would have also caused him undue 
distress. However, Barclays has already paid £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which Im satisfied is fair compensation for the trouble caused 
to Mr A. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
refund the payments Mr A made to the scammer, less any credits received.
Barclays should also pay interest at the account rate on this amount from the date it declined 
Mr As claim under the Code until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman