DRN-4208794
The complaint
Miss F complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves cancelled 
her loan agreement.  
What happened
Miss F successfully applied for a loan with Fund Ourselves on 29 April 2023 and was told 
she would have the money on the same day. Miss F noticed this hadnt happened when she 
checked the next day. She contacted Fund Ourselves who told her they couldnt give her the 
money due to a technical issue. 
Fund Ourselves e-mailed Miss F saying her loan was repaid. She contacted them and they 
told her she could reapply, but this would entail having another credit search recorded on her 
credit file. 
Miss F complained to Fund Ourselves. They apologised for what had happened and said 
they would remove the cancelled loan and the search footprint for this from Miss Fs credit 
file.
Our investigator felt this was reasonable. Miss F didnt agree and said she should receive 
compensation.
Miss Fs complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this complaint arent in dispute, in that all parties agree that Miss F successfully 
applied for a loan and that Fund Ourselves didnt send her the proceeds of this because of a 
technical issue. I appreciate this would have been frustrating and potentially concerning for 
Miss F. However, Fund Ourselves explained what had happened promptly and I havent 
seen evidence that what happened financially disadvantaged Miss F. 
I understand why Miss F has asked for compensation for what happened but, in the 
circumstances, I find that Fund Ourselves offer to remove the loan agreement in question 
and associated search footprint from Miss Fs credit file is fair. So, I wont be asking them to 
do anything further although they should act on their offer as soon as possible, if they 
havent already done so. 
My final decision
FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves has offered to remove the loan 
agreement and search footprint from Miss Fs credit file. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So, my decision is that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves should 
carry out the required actions to complete their offer, if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman