DRN-2188241
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled a claim 
under a home insurance policy.
What happened
I sent a provisional decision to the parties in August 2020 explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. I set out the background to the complaint acknowledging it was 
detailed but well-known to all parties:
In summary, Mrs and Mr S home experienced an escape of water in 2016, seemingly from a 
main water pipe. They instructed a loss assessing company (Ill refer to as RB) to act for 
them in dealing with RSA and carrying out the repair work. Mrs S signed consent forms 
authorising RB to so act.
The circumstances werent without challenges, and its apparent that a number of further
water leaks were discovered and of most relevance to this complaint concerns the swimming
pool. RSA settled the claims by making cash payments to RB, after agreeing the appropriate
amounts for various works requested.
The nature of the agreement between Mrs and Mr S and RB is a contract, the terms of which
were included on RBs Authorising Mandate. Ive only seen the front side of that mandate but
included is a part that Mrs S, who signed the document, agreed that RB would act on all
matters relating to the insurance claim including the signing of acceptance and discharge
forms and receiving all payments in connection with the claim. And the usual basis for these
types of contracts is that the loss assessor, here RB, will not charge Mrs S a fee for its
service provided that she agrees to use RBs recommended contractors. Where the
settlement secured from the insurer is cash and Mrs S appoints her own contractors then a
fee is agreed, usually a percentage, as to the amount RB will receive from the settlement.
Mrs and Mr S believe RSAs agents damaged items that couldnt be replaced, and this
stalled repairs and inflated the costs. Theyre unhappy that the claim was ongoing for over
four years and that RSA wont cover consequential losses, particularly related to the
swimming pool. The main issue here is that tiles were removed from the pool and
replacement tiles installed that were more than twice the thickness of the original tiles. As a
consequence, additional work needs to be carried out to pool nosing, inspection covers and
levels. In simple terms the thicker tiles used require other work to be done to accommodate
the thickness and its impact on surrounding areas.
Mrs and Mr S are also unhappy with the extent of redactions on documents provided under
GDPR processes and being responsible for maintaining the pool when not living at the
home. To put things right, Mrs and Mr S want RSA to pay for additional work on their pool
and the delay in progressing the claim. Although Ive said I wont go into all the details I will
reassure all parties that Ive considered everything weve been sent, and so Im aware of
other issues including flooring, kitchen and windows, and the fact that another insurer is
dealing with a claim at the property.
One of our investigators said the differing reports, surveys and opinions meant there wasnt
an agreed way forward to resolve Mrs and Mr S issues. So, he thought the way to resolve
this was for Mrs and Mr S to choose three independent experts and RSA to select one of
these to assess all the available reports and information to decide the appropriate resolution
and cost under the insurance policy. In addition, the expert would be able to consider any
losses that flow from the actions of RSA and its agents. And he explained that Mrs and Mr S
could contact the information commissioner with any issues over he redacted information
RSA provided.
Overall, the investigator didnt think it was fair for RSA to make a cash settlement in a
situation where its possible that its agents caused damage that delayed repairs and
increased their cost. He explained RSA would have to pay for the new expert who would
decide the appropriate course of action.
RSA disagreed with the investigator saying;
Neither RSA nor its agents caused any damage.
Mrs and Mr S appointed their own loss assessor to handle the claim so any issue 
with the settlement should be discusses between Mrs and Mr S and their assessor.
Mrs and Mr S loss assessor requested a cash payment for repairs to be carried out 
by their preferred contractors. RSA cant be held responsible for such repairs.
Mrs and Mr S had an obligation to maintain their home even if they werent living 
there. 
What I provisionally decided
I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint in the following terms:
The insurance policy sets out the terms and conditions between RSA and Mrs and Mr S. Of
particular relevance is the basis of claims settlement and the policy says this;
At our option we will make a cash settlement but we will not pay more than it would have
cost us to repair the damage to your buildings if the repair work had been carried out without
delay.
This is a common feature in all the home insurance policies Ive seen, and Im satisfied its
fair for RSA to reserve this discretion. Overall, the policy allows RSA to conduct and carry
out repairs using its approved contractors or pay a cash amount instead. And it limits that
amount to that which it would have to pay when using its preferred contractors. Its fair that
RSA is entitled to minimise its financial exposure  for example, why should RSA pay £1,000
when its own contractors would receive £500? I dont think it should and so in principle Im
satisfied its fair that RSA retains discretion on the amount it pays out.
Here, Mrs and Mr S instructed the services of RB and so RSA did not instruct its contractors
to carry out repair work. Instead, schedules of work were agreed between RSA and RB, RB
provided estimated amounts for work required and RSA authorised the amounts. RSA did
not instruct the contractors or quality assure the work. And indeed, included on RBs website
it says;
Unlike those referred to you by your insurers appointed loss adjuster, our contractors
ensure that the quality of repair is high and allows flexibility for any additional charges you
may wish to make.
Im not persuaded that RSA is responsible for the quality of work carried out given it didnt
instruct its agents to carry out repairs  RB took on this role and received remuneration to doso as a consequence of the contractual agreement with Mrs S.
Now, thats not to say RSA is absolved of any responsibility throughout the claim journey just
because Mrs and Mr S instructed RB. Having considered everything carefully though, Im not
persuaded RSA is at fault for the claim journey going on for as long as it has.
The claim started off with one leak but then others arose and were fixed. I note
correspondence from RB to Mrs and Mr S explaining that the length of time was impacted by
four leaks at different times, and a privately arranged garage conversion which stopped
completion of the pool repairs.
As is part of the claim process, RB liaised with RSA to negotiate and agree costs and next
steps. Just because RB (or Mrs and Mr S) thought an issue should be covered under the
insurance policy, or that an estimated cost or repair or alternative accommodation, RSA
must be able to consider such matters, challenge where appropriate and then reach an
agreed way forward with RB.
So, the number of leaks involved that were discovered over a lengthy period together with
Mrs and Mr Ss private works and the negotiations between RB and RSAs loss adjuster,
culminated in a long process to move each issue on. An example of this is where I note
there was no contact from RB to RSA between July and October 2018. Im not persuaded
that RSA is at fault for the length of time the claim has been ongoing.
I now turn to an issue with the swimming pool tiles that were purchased and installed, which
led to further complications. As far as I can tell from the information provided, a company
instructed by RB or Mrs S presented costs for the repair work to be carried out. Tiling around
the perimeter of the pool was required and RB and RSA came to an agreement on the cost
of tiles. No other issue on this arose with RSA until it was found that the replacement tiles
purchased and fitted were more than twice the thickness of the original ones. And this had a
consequential impact on the finger tiles left in place at the edge of the pool being lower than
the new tiles leaving an exposed sharp edge. In addition, trays, access covers and other
essential maintenance points didnt have sufficient depth to accept the new thickness tile.
RB (and Mrs S) say that RSA should cover the cost of the additional work required. On the
basis that RB was instructed by Mrs S, and it was RB that appears to have arranged and
instructed companies to carry out the repairs, Im not persuaded it would be fair to require
RSA to pay for the additional work. Looking at RBs website it says, our contractors are
either owned by us or vetted to ensure they are of a high standard. But even if the
contractors used were not vetted by RB then Im still not persuaded that RSA bears
responsibility here.
Issues with the unavailability of matching tiles were not brought to RSAs attention and RSA
agreed an amount of money that RB presented as that which was required to carry out the
repairs. And given the expertise of RB it seems to me that there was some responsibility on
RB to ensure this part of the claim was assessed and issues resolved before the
purchase/fitting of the tiles. Its apparent that full cognisance wasnt given to the pool layout
and the maintenance points before submitting the claim to RSA. Retro-correction puts RSA
at a significant disadvantage in terms of the cost its liable for. While RB has said equivalent
thickness tiles werent available, RSA wasnt afforded an opportunity to see what it might
have been able to obtain. And further, even if the minimum thickness available was the one
fitted, no thought was apparently given by the company measuring the tiled area to see what
impact this would have on the pool equipment. And its for these reasons that I dont think it
would be fair for me to make an award against RSA to fund the additional work. It seems
that the appropriate avenue for challenge is with RB and/or the company(ies) involved in this
aspect of the repairs.I appreciate there are some costs relating to the pool which RSA says are maintenance
costs that Mrs and Mr S disagree with. The water leaks are not the cause of, for example,
new filters and pump issues. It seems to be the case that the pool not being used for a
lengthy period has necessitated these works. Just because the pool hasnt been in use
doesnt persuade me that the damage now claimed is a consequence of an insured event.
The policy excludes the cost of maintenance and any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense
of any kind directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tearcorrosion,
rustingor anything that happens gradually. It seems to me that there were opportunities for
equipment to be maintained and serviced notwithstanding the pool wasnt in use. And as RB
had responsibility for handling Mrs and Mr S claim Im not persuaded that liability here falls
to RSA.
Having thought very carefully about this complaint, and understanding the challenges Mrs
and Mr S faced, Im not persuaded that RSA has acted outside the terms of the policy or
treated the merits of the claim unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen a reply from RSA, but Mrs and Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision 
and have provided a supporting statement from a Director of a chartered building surveyors 
company. In summary the points made are;
i. RSA put forward the loss adjuster to act so Mrs Ss signature on the form isnt 
relevant; 
ii. RSA has a continuing duty to the repairs until theyve been properly signed off; 
iii. RB appears to have acted without consideration or authority from Mrs and Mr S in 
how the funds were to be spent, which isnt contractually correct; 
iv. it is not for Mrs and Mr S to maintain aspects of the home where repairs are being  
contractually its the contractors property as Mrs and Mrs S were relocated; 
v. RB was RSAs agent and should have run the pool equipment during the works  the 
damage isnt wear and tear;  
vi. RSAs preferred rates for its contractors reduces the quality of the finished product;
vii. its agreed RSA isnt responsible for the delay, RB or their nominated agents are; 
viii. the garage conversion didnt add delay;
ix. a legal claim could be considered against the loss assessors RB and RSA in 
negligence; 
x. if theres no reconsideration theres no alternative but to proceed with legal cover 
litigate against RSA, RB and the contractor.
Having carefully considered the response on behalf of Mrs and Mr S Im not persuaded to 
change my provisional thoughts. Points ix and xi are not issues for me to comment on.
Im not satisfied on the information that RSA appointed the loss assessors. Mrs S entered 
into a separate contract with RB  RSA was not party to that contract and so had no 
obligation under that contract to RB or Mrs and Mr S. Mrs and Mr S were represented by RB 
and RB undertook negotiations with RSA. 
RB was responsible for the contractors it instructed, and Ive explained why Im not 
persuaded that RSA has acted unfairly and Im not changing my view on that. RSAs 
obligations were set out in the home insurance policy and it made a cash settlement as 
described above (in my provisional decision). The policy doesnt cover maintenance costs and so my view on that remains unchanged. 
And the fact that RSA secures commercial rates with contractors that carry out work on its 
behalf, doesnt as a corollary lead to poor quality. If RSA had conduct of the repair work, 
then it would be responsible for the standard of the work. But RB was appointed by Mrs S 
and so assumed all responsibility for the work and the negotiation with RSA under that 
contract. Im not persuaded by the information Ive seen that RSA directly instructed 
contractors to carry out repair work under the insurance contract.  
While I appreciate Mrs and Mr S disagree and are unhappy with my decision, Im not 
satisfied fault in this complaint lays with RSA. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman