DRN-2749253
The complaint
Mr W complains EUI Limited charged him a fee when he cancelled his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a car insurance policy online, and later called to cancel it within the 14 days 
cooling off period. 
EUI charged him a £25 cancellation administration fee, but Mr W doesnt think it was fair to 
charge him this fee because he cancelled his policy during the cooling off period. He doesnt 
think the charges were clearly signposted and thinks they are disproportionate. He also 
says, had the charges been brought to his attention before he took out the policy, he could 
have made an informed decision on whether to go ahead with the policy. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They said it wasnt incorrect or 
unfair to apply a £25 charge when a policy is cancelled within the cooling off period. And 
they thought EUI had applied the charge fairly. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and Ill explain why.
The rules that govern the provision of insurance are set out in the Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and it says businesses must allow a consumer to cancel an 
insurance policy without penalty within 14 days. It also says businesses can only charge an 
amount to cover the service actually provided by the firm in accordance with the contract. 
So, an insurer can only charge for the time on risk and an administration fee to cover the 
work they did. ICOBS says a business shouldnt charge these fees unless the costs were 
made clear to the consumer before the contract started. So, I think EUI needed to make     
Mr W aware of their cancellation administration fees before he agreed to purchase the 
policy.
 
Mr W initially applied for the policy through a comparison website. EUI have explained that 
as part of the online application process, he would have been redirected to their website in 
order to purchase the policy. And theyve said, he would have been presented with their 
charges and fees information, which is displayed to all customers prior to payment being 
taken. They provided a screenshot from their website which shows the following information: 
 Below are the most common fees and charges that are applicable during the policy term of 
this product. 
£25.00 cancellation from the point of purchasing the policy and cancellation within 14 days of 
the policy start date.
As such, Im satisfied EUI brought the £25 administration fee to Mr Ws attention. 
 
I also find that the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy clearly sets out EUIs cancellation 
fees. Mr W says it required reading through pages of information before arriving at the 
charges information and so he doesnt feel it was clearly signposted. But, as I said above, 
Im satisfied EUI did make this cost clear outside of the terms of the policy and before the 
contract started. I can also see that their charges and fees were highlighted in the your 
agreement with EUI Limited document which Mr W would have been provided with when he 
purchased the policy.
  
Its not unusual for an insurer or their administrator to charge an administration fee if a policy 
is cancelled during the cooling off period. And as mentioned above, ICOBS allows them to 
charge a fee which is proportionate to the service provided. It also allows them to charge a 
proportionate premium for the time the policy was in force. 
I understand Mr W thinks the £25 he was charged was disproportionate to the work carried 
out, but I dont agree. In their response to this complaint EUI state that the fee they charged 
Mr W was to cover the costs involved in setting up the policy, issuing documentation and 
administration costs involved in cancelling the policy. As such, I dont think it was unfair for 
them to charge the administration fee for the work theyve done, and I find the amount they 
charged was reasonable. 
  
Considering all this, I find EUI acted fairly when they charged Mr W to cancel his policy, and 
I dont think they need to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman