DRN-2007450
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about investment advice provided by Barclay Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
What happened
In 2001, Mr and Mrs N had £133,070 from the sale of a property and took advice from 
Barclays predecessor. They were cautious investors and their objective was to secure a 
better return than investing in a deposit account. At the time they had a joint disposable 
income of £1000 a month, not including regular savings of an additional £200 a month.
Mr and Mrs N were advised to invest £50,000 into two with-profit investment bonds (split 
£25,000 into each), £53,000 into medium risk investments, broken down as £25,000 into a 
discretionary managed investment and £14,000 into stocks and shares ISAs. Mr and Mrs N 
decided to reduce the amount invested into the ISAs to £7,000 each. This meant that 
£89,000 was invested with over £44,000 retained as cash. Mr and Mrs N were advised to 
meet with the adviser the following year to discuss additional ISA contributions.
Those acting for Mr and Mrs N say the recommendation was unsuitable as the with-profit 
bonds exposed them to unnecessary tax, tax efficient wrappers should have been used 
going forward, the level of risk was too high and alternative investments were not discussed. 
They say that fair redress would be to award the difference between the surrender value and 
the notional surrender value had the funds been invested in the FTSE Private Investors 
Balanced Index over the same period, plus 8% interest on that difference.
Barclays conceded that Mr and Mrs N were exposed to more risk than was appropriate in 
respect of the medium risk investments, as all the sums invested should have been in a 
cautious environment. So, they offered compensation as if the funds had been invested in 
lower risk investments. Barclays offered a comparator split equally between performance in 
line with the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index and the return matching 
the Bank of England Average Fixed Rate Bond Returns, adding interest up to a date one 
month after the offer was made, allowing time for acceptance. Making a global offer of 
£18,120.10. In addition, Barclays offered £150 in compensation for the delay in dealing with 
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs N didnt think the offer was fair. They said the whole portfolio should be 
redressed as the recommendation to invest in with-profit bonds was also unsuitable because 
funds would not have been available for subsequent ISAs. Unit trusts and OEICs would have 
been better.
As Mr and Mrs N wanted to achieve a rate of return above a deposit account, it was also 
said on their behalf that the appropriate comparator would be the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Total Return index only. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. Our investigator 
thought the recommendation to invest in the with-profit bonds was suitable as it met Mr and 
Mrs Ns objective of providing a steady rate of growth over five years, with the option of 
providing regular income if needed. The fact-find showed that additional ISA contributions 
were going to be discussed the following year. 
Our investigator considered that the offer of redress proposed by Barclays was fair and 
reasonable and it was in line with the benchmark used by this service for lower risk 
investments.
Mr and Mrs N disagree with the view, they say its unreasonable to use a fixed rate bond 
comparator. Further, the with-profit bonds exposed Mr and Mrs N to unnecessary taxes and 
there were better options with the same risk profile such as ISAs, Unit Trusts or OEIC funds. 
As the parties disagree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Attitude to risk
Its said on Mr and Mrs Ns behalf that they were inexperienced investors who were looking 
for a better than deposit rate of return. Thats supported by the fact find, which records they 
hadnt invested before. The funds they were seeking to invest were from the sale of a 
residential property. Whilst they were looking for an income, its clear that capital 
preservation was important to them as in the longer term they were looking to use the funds 
to purchase a home when they retired or to live off the capital. Their capacity for loss was 
low. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that Mr and Mrs Ns attitude to risk was 
cautious and thats now agreed by Barclays.
Suitability 
Its not disputed by the Barclays that part of the advice given was unsuitable. In light of the 
concession that Mr and Mrs N were cautious in their risk appetite, Barclays agree that the 
recommendations to invest in a discretionary managed service and stocks and shares ISAs 
were unsuitable. I agree that they exposed Mr and Mrs N to more risk than they were willing 
to take. 
So, the issue for me to determine is whether the recommendation to invest in the with-profit 
bonds was suitable. Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say there were other options which 
gave better tax efficiency than the with-profit bonds.
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs N were cautious investors and the financial report from the 
time records they were looking for better rates of return than from deposit accounts. They 
were looking to invest for growth for five years and did not need access to their capital during 
that period. They intended to invest in a tax efficient manner wishing to use ISAs and their 
capital gains tax allowance, whilst retaining £30,000 in very low risk cash deposits. 
In my view the bonds did meet Mr and Mrs Ns needs for increased, steady income. They 
also had the option to withdraw up to 5% a year without incurring a tax liability. And although 
tax is an important consideration when recommending an investment, it isnt the only 
consideration. Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs N chose to reduce their 
investment into ISAs and the financial report from the time recorded that they did not wish to 
consider their tax position. That there were other options available does not mean that this 
aspect of the recommendation was unsuitable.In my view the recommendation to investment £50,000 into the with-profits bonds was not 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ns needs. It met their objectives and was in line with the level of 
risk they wanted to take. 
Putting things right
As I consider that the recommendation to invest £50,000 into with-profit bonds wasnt 
unsuitable, Barclays doesnt need to do anything more.
I agree that it is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs N in respect of the balance 
of the funds invested, to put them as close to the position they would probably now be in if 
they had not been given unsuitable advice.
In my view the method of calculation proposed by Barclays is fair and reasonable. Mr and 
Mrs N wanted some growth with a small risk to their capital. The average rate for the fixed 
rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return 
without risk to their capital. The FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index is a 
mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. Mr and Mrs Ns risk profile was somewhere in between, so using a 
50/50 combination broadly reflects the sort of return they could reasonably have obtained 
from investments suited to their objectives and risk attitude. Ive seen that Barclays added 
8% simple interest per annum from the date of surrender of each investment up to March 
2020, which factored in a reasonable time for Mr and Mrs N to consider the offer.
I note that £150 was offered for the distress caused by the time taken to deal with the 
complaint.
In my view the offer at the time was fair and reasonable and Barclays have confirmed the 
offer remains open to Mr and Mrs N, so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more. I 
wont be asking Barclays to pay any more interest as Mr and Mrs N could reasonably have 
mitigated their losses by accepting the offer in March.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, but for the reasons given I wont be upholding this 
complaint. The offer from Barclays Bank UK Pc was fair and reasonable. It is now up to Mr 
and Mrs N to decide whether to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman