DRN-3092041
The complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her two payment protection policies in 1992. Both 
policies were intended to protect Mrs Rs mortgage repayments. The mortgage Mrs R held 
with Santander also began in 1992. 
The initial policy sold to Mrs R was an MPPI policy and cost Mrs R £21.50 a month and 
wouldve provided her with a benefit of £390.75 a month if she was unable to work due to 
sickness, accident or unemployment. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months. 
The second policy cost Mrs R £3.48 per month and Santander hasnt been able to tell us the 
benefit it wouldve provided. This policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months. 
Mrs R says she did not need either of the policies and they were not properly explained to 
her at the time of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed, so the 
case was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about either sale. Ill explain why.
Santander shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policies were optional. It 
also shouldve got her agreement to take it out. 
The policies seem to have been arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the 
discussions between Mrs R and the adviser involved. But Santander has been able to 
provide some paperwork that was completed at the time. So, I have considered this 
paperwork alongside Mrs Rs comments and what we know in general about how this type of 
MPPI was sold. 
Looking at the paperwork I can see that there is a separate section within the mortgage 
application about the MPPI. This has a brief explanation about the cover, and it states MPPI 
is recommended. On Mr Rs application I can see that cover for herself has been selected. 
Based on what we know about how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations 
with the adviser to reflect the details on this form. And if Mrs R wasnt sure about the cover, I 
wouldve expected her to query it before signing and agreeing to the cover. I also think its 
likely Mrs R completed similar paperwork for the second PPI policy.
So, taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Mrs R gave her
consent for the MPPI to be set up on both occasions and the policies were presented as
optional. Although I can understand why she may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended the policies to Mrs R so it had to check that they were right for her. 
Mrs Rs circumstances were broadly the same at the time of both sales and looking at them 
it seems the policies were suitable. I say this because:
Based on the terms we usually see in policies like the ones sold to Mrs R it seems 
she was eligible for the cover. 
Based on what Mrs Rs told us about her circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policies didnt cover  like 
known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. This means there was 
nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the policies if shed needed to.
Mrs Rs told us she wouldve received sick pay from her employer. The policies 
wouldve paid out if Mrs R was off work due to accident or sickness. They would also 
have provided cover if she was made redundant. This cover wouldve paid out 
alongside these benefits, and for up to 24 months. This couldve allowed Mrs R to 
use employee benefits to cover other everyday living expenses.
Mrs R has referred to her savings, explaining she had other means to help meet the 
mortgage repayments. I appreciate Mrs R may have had savings at the time, but the 
MPPI wouldve allowed Mrs R to preserve these savings. Mrs R has also said she 
couldve relied on the help of family and friends if necessary. However, this 
assistance cant have been guaranteed and circumstances can change. 
Mrs R was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on her home. The effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve 
been serious for her. I think having the security that her repayments wouldve been 
made if she was unable to work wouldve been important to her.
As well as checking the policies was suitable for Mrs R Santander also shouldve given her 
clear information about the them so that she could make a proper choice about whether or 
not to take them out. I dont know what steps Santander took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mrs Rs decision. I think shed still have bought the policies. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policies was suitable for her.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policies were mis-sold. I know this will be
disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman