DRN-3184488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that they paid fees for a Travel Pack (TP) for many months after it 
became of much less use to them due to their age.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E say that once they both reached a certain age in 2018, the TP didnt cover 
either of them for one of the biggest benefits which was the travel insurance. They say they 
paid for many months for something they couldnt use, and this was unfair.
Barclays says that it notified Mr and Mrs E several times both before and after the relevant 
birthday that they would no longer be able to use the travel insurance benefit in the TP but 
didnt get a response.
I agree with Mr and Mrs E that once they could no longer use the travel insurance, the TP 
was of much less use to them even though there were other benefits available.
So, Ive considered what Barclays could and should have done in this situation.
In my view, it was appropriate for Barclays to notify Mr and Mrs E of the impact that the 
relevant birthday in 2018 would have. But it wouldnt have been appropriate for Barclays to 
change or close the TP without Mr and Mrs Es agreement.
Barclays has provided evidence that it sent appropriate detailed correspondence to Mr and 
Mrs Es correct address on multiple occasions with prominent information about the impact 
of their ages on the products usability. I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E 
received most and probably all those letters.  And in my view, this was reasonable 
notification.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs E did not respond to those letters, so in my view 
Barclays would not have been right to change the TP without their agreement.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong regarding 
the TP.
For completeness I note that Mr and Mrs E have been dissatisfied with some aspects of 
Barclayss service, and Barclays has taken remedial action. Mr and Mrs E feel that after their 
lifetime relationship with Barclays, they should receive a gesture of goodwill from the bank. 
As our adjudicator said, this is not something this service would award redress for, so it 
would up to the bank if it wished to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman