DRN-1779872
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about a life assurance policy he took out alongside business lending from 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank.
Specifically, he says he never received policy documentation, the policy was cancelled 
without his authorisation and that Yorkshire Bank unreasonably continued corresponding 
with him after it had issued a final response to his complaint on 7 September 2018.
What happened
In 1999, Mr A took out a life assurance policy alongside business lending by Yorkshire Bank. 
The policy application was completed in a Yorkshire Bank branch, but the policy was sold 
and operated by a differing business. The policy provided £50,000 of level cover for a 10-
year term, with the policy being assigned to Yorkshire Bank. The sum assured was based on 
a minimum premium payable, which was £10 each month. The policy lapsed in 2004.
Mr A first made a complaint to Yorkshire Bank in 2018, where he said that he felt the policy 
was mis-sold and that he believed he had been sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Specifically, he said he was in self-employment at the time and the cover wasnt suitable for 
that purpose. Further, payments were being taken for over a year after the lending had been 
repaid in full.
Yorkshire Bank initially treated the matter as a PPI complaint, and transferred it to a different 
department. Mr A said he was unhappy with the amount of time Yorkshire Bank had taken to 
resolve the matter because of this. It also wrote to Mr A to confirm that a different business 
was responsible for the sale of the policy and it passed that matter to the relevant insurer 
and sent referral rights with that letter, which was issued on 7 September 2018.
It issued a further complaint response with referral rights from the PPI department on 27 
September 2018 saying that it realised Mr As complaint was about a life assurance policy, 
not a PPI policy and it should have identified that sooner. Because of this, it arranged for a 
cheque of £25 to be sent to Mr A.
In June 2019, Mr A called Yorkshire Bank again to further some additional concerns he had 
about the policy. Yorkshire Bank issued a letter dated 6 August 2019 explaining the steps it 
had taken in 2018. It said it believed it had fully answered Mr As concerns about the policy 
(as they related to Yorkshire Bank) at that time, and it would not be prepared to enter into 
further correspondence regarding the policy.
In October 2019, Mr A brought his complaint to this service, where it was reviewed by one of 
our investigators.
Yorkshire Bank said it did not consent to this service reviewing the complaint because it had 
addressed it in 2018. Mr A said he had made a new complaint.
Our investigator explained that Mr A was not complaining about the mis-sale of his policy. 
He said he had raised three new specific points of complaint and these differed from the 2018 complaints.
Yorkshire Bank said it did consent to our investigator looking at any new issues as a fresh 
complaint, but it remained of the view that the first two complaints were out of time.
It said it did not have record of Mr A raising those issues in June 2019. But, of the three 
issues, Yorkshire Bank said the first two related to the insurer that sold Mr A the policy. In 
respect of the third issue, Yorkshire Bank said it had further corresponded with Mr A 
because the matter had originally been referred to as PPI, and therefore it was passed 
internally to an additional department, creating a delay. It had sent a £25 cheque to Mr A for 
that delay, and considered the matter resolved.
Our investigator agreed that the first two complaint points should be referred to the insurer 
that Mr A held the policy with, not Yorkshire Bank. For the final aspect of the complaint, the 
investigator did not think it should succeed. He said Yorkshire Banks apology, explanation 
and compensation offered for the delay was sufficient.
Mr A said he remained unhappy with the outcome of this fresh complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator. I wont therefore be 
asking Yorkshire Bank to do anything further.
For clarity, Mr A now has two complaints with this service about the matters arising from the 
sale of the policy alongside his lending  the complaint before me against Yorkshire Bank, 
and a second complaint about the business that sold and administered the policy, which I 
understand is now being considered by another ombudsman.
Further, the matters raised in the original complaint to Yorkshire Bank (the sale of the policy, 
and the delay in addressing those concerns) are not being looked at here either, and neither 
party contests that now because of the time that has now passed.
Under the rules that apply to this service, I am only allowed to look at a complaint (if the 
business has objected) if it is pursued here within six months of the final response from the 
business. Two final response letters (FRLs) were issued in respect of those complaints 
dated 7 September 2018 and 27 September 2018, meaning those complaints needed to be 
pursued by 7March 2019 and 27 March 2019 respectively. Mr A didnt pursue those matters 
here as they relate to Yorkshire Bank.
In respect of the first FRL, that is because Mr A is now aware that a differing business sold 
and maintained the policy, and so the matter is the subject of his other complaint with the 
different ombudsman.
The specific concern regarding delays in the second FRL were not pursued further after 
Yorkshire Bank provided Mr A with a compensation cheque for its delay in recognising his 
policy was life assurance, not PPI.
The same six month time limit does not apply to the three fresh complaints before Yorkshire Bank, as it consented to our investigator looking into them  and it did not issue a final 
response letter on that basis.
Ive therefore looked at all three issues now being raised. As our investigator has said, the 
first two complaints are again matters which are the responsibility of the adviser (and 
therefore the business) that sold Mr A his life assurance policy. The contract of insurance 
was with that insurer and therefore the concerns about the policy documents and 
cancellation of the contract rest with that business. Again, I understand this is now being 
pursued against the other business. 
For the third issue that does relate to Yorkshire Bank, I agree that I cannot conclude it has 
done anything wrong.
I recognise that it was frustrating for Mr A that Yorkshire Bank failed to realise right away that 
his policy was not PPI. This led to it firstly writing to him on 30 July 2018 closing the PPI 
complaint, because it couldnt find any evidence of a PPI policy.
But, Mr A had complained initially in his letter of 21 June 2018 saying that the payments 
taken from him each month were PPI. I understand Yorkshire Bank was in an informed 
position to tell Mr A that his policy was not PPI but a protection policy comprising life 
assurance. Instead, it took his complaint at face value and firstly tried to locate a PPI policy.
Thereafter, Yorkshire Bank investigated the matter again and it issued the FRL of 7 
September 2018 explaining how the other business was liable for the sale and the second 
FRL which accepted responsibility for the unnecessary delay. In that letter, it explained the 
PPI department would write separately to Mr A, because it wanted to investigate his 
concerns over the time taken to direct the complaint to the right place.
Though I realise Mr A feels that any correspondence undertaken since his original complaint 
has been unnecessary on Yorkshire Banks part, I do believe it sought to put matters right by 
further investigating why it had sent the complaint to the wrong department, explaining it had 
made a mistake and sending a cheque to him for that error. This was an outstanding 
concern that Yorkshire Bank had to address, because Mr A had specifically raised a second 
point to his complaint by saying he was unhappy with how long the process was taking.
I cannot revisit the complaints set out in the two FRLs for the reasons I have explained 
above. But in any event, it may help Mr A to know that the amount he was sent was in 
keeping with the sort of compensation awards we make at the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where a business could have acted more promptly but its administrative failings 
have caused a minor delay.
As far as the communications of 2019, these were instigated by Mr A, so again I do not find 
Yorkshire Bank was unreasonable in writing him to explain that it now considered the matter 
closed, since it had provided full responses the previous year.
My final decision
I am unable to make findings on the first two aspects of the complaint as they form the 
subject of a complaint against the business which sold Mr A his life assurance policy. For the 
complaint point I can consider, I dont believe Yorkshire Bank has acted unfairly on 
unreasonably in the manner or timing of any additional communications with Mr A.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman