DRN-3501648
The complaint
Mrs M complains Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined a claim 
she made under her buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2019 Mrs M claimed under her Lloyds building and contents insurance policy, as her 
boilers water pressure kept dropping and her plumber thought this was caused by a leak 
somewhere - Mrs M said her plumber thought the leak was perhaps underneath a concrete 
floor. Mrs M said there was no evidence of water damage, but she wanted Lloyds to cover 
the cost of finding the leak (trace and access) and reinstating the concrete floor.
Lloyds declined Mrs Ms claim. It said the terms and conditions of her policy only covered 
trace and access of a leak if there was water damage, which wasnt the case here. Unhappy, 
Mrs M complained to Lloyds as she felt she was being left to pay large costs despite paying 
premiums for many years. 
Lloyds didnt change its position. But it said Mrs M should contact it again if a leak was 
located and there was evidence of water damage, as it might be able to assist with this.
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our Service. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint, as he thought Lloyds had declined the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy.
Mrs M disagreed. She said she understood why she needed to pay for finding a leak, but if 
her property was damaged by doing so, then that damage was a direct consequence of the 
leak, since the floor had to be damaged in order to repair the leak. 
Mrs M later told our Service her boilers water pressure was still dropping, but no work had 
been done yet and there was still no evidence of water damage. And that shed spoken to 
her plumber again, who said insurers regularly paid these claims and hed have to employ a 
leak detector to find the leak. Mrs M said her boiler was in good working order but the leak 
caused the pressure to drop, which damages the boiler and means it eventually needs 
replacing, which had happened to Mrs M previously. Mrs M also said her Lloyds policy was 
due for renewal soon, and shed have to renew it given this issue.
As Mrs M disagreed with our Investigator, her complaint came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I realise this isnt the answer Mrs M 
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons.
I acknowledge what Mrs M says about having paid premiums for many years. However, 
Mrs Ms policy doesnt provide cover for every issue that might occur in her home. Instead, 
the policy terms and conditions set out what cover is provided and under what 
circumstances.  
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, I can see they say, 
Trace and access. 
If there is damage to your buildings caused by:
-Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed domestic water 
installation, or freezing of water in fixed domestic water or heating systems; or
-Escape of oil from any fixed domestic oil installation;
and you cannot reasonably determine the location of the leak, then we will pay the cost of 
removing and replacing any part of your buildings necessary and making good.
So, in order for trace and access to be covered under Mrs Ms policy, an escape of water 
needs to have firstly caused damage to Mrs Ms building. In this case, the water pressure in 
Mrs Ms boiler drops and her plumber thinks there could be a leak under Mrs Ms concrete 
floor. But Mrs M agrees theres no water damage to her building. Given this, I think Lloyds 
has declined Mrs Ms trace and access claim fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mrs M says that if her building is damaged by her taking action to trace and access a leak, 
then that damage is a direct consequence of the leak, because the floor had to be damaged 
to repair the leak. However, its not yet certain there is a leak. I note Lloyds has said that if a 
leak is located and theres evidence of water damage, Mrs M can contact it again. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman