DRN-4212774
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund 
Ourselves) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using the Subject Access Request (SAR) records together with the business file records 
from Fund Ourselves, here is a table I have created to show the loans  approved and 
denied  by Fund Ourselves between 13 June 2021 and 5 June 2022.  
Loan Approved Amount Instalments Repaid
1 13 June 2021 £250 4 x £117 31 August 2021 (early)
- 31 August 2021 
denied£350 - -
2 4 September 2021 £110 4 x £53.24 2 Nov 2021 (early)
3 2 November 2021 £200 4 x £97.20 13 December 2021 
(early)
4 14 December 2021 £300 4 x £139.20 1 & 3 Jan 2022 (early)
5 5 January 2022 £300 4 x £144 31 March 2022 (early)
Between 31 March 2022 and 2 May 2022 Mr H applied for 21 loans ranging 
from £100 to £490 and all were denied
6 10 May 2022 £210 4 x £99.96 16 May 2022
- 21 May 2022 
denied£390 - -
7 21 May 2022 £200 4 x £90.80 2 June 2022 (early)
8 5 June 2022 £250 4 x £121 Arrears
Mr H instructed his representative on 9 May 2022 which was just after hed been refused for 
21 loans by Fund Ourselves. However, Mr H continued to apply for loans and three were 
approved for him.
Mr Hs representative started by submitting a SAR to Fund Ourselves the details of which 
have been shared with us and its those records which revealed the declined loans  23 in 
all. 
The complaint was submitted to Fund Ourselves on behalf of Mr H in August 2022 and the 
final response letter (FRL) was issued around the same time. The FRL did not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and so his representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
One of our adjudicators considered it and thought that by loan 6 there had become a pattern 
of lending which would have been harmful to Mr H from that time and so she considered that 
loans 6, 7 and 8 ought not to have been lent.
Mr Hs representative acknowledged it and appeared to be satisfied with the outcome. It 
said:
Thank you for your email. We appreciate your assistance.
We will forward the outcome of your decision to our client.
In the meantime, should you have further instructions, please let us know.
Fund Ourselves response was: 
Please can you confirm whether you assessed the Call Credit Checks provided in 
the business file for loans 6, 7 and 8?
Our adjudicator responded to answer Fund Ourselves question and explained that she had 
considered that the pattern of borrowing and Mr H's lending history itself was enough to 
determine he shouldn't have been given these loans.
Fund Ourselves responded to say 
We await a decision from the Ombudsman  the loans were not back to back and 
there was a gap in lending between loans 5 and 6.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
As Mr Hs representative appears to be content with the adjudicators outcome I have not 
reviewed in detail loans 1 to 5 as it appears these are resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors 
include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. Our adjudicator considered that 
this applied to Mr Hs circumstances from loan 6. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a Fund Ourselves realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint. 
A factual matter to explain early on is that the SAR obtained by Mr Hs representatives is 
what disclosed the 23 loan refusals (21 in succession between March 2022 and May 2022). 
The information provided to us did not include that and may be the reason that Fund 
Ourselves defence to the claim is that there was a gap between loans 5 and 6. It shows a 
fundamental misunderstanding of its own records as the gap was the period when Fund 
Ourselves refused Mr H 21 times. 
Ive only one set of details surrounding Mr Hs applications and that may indicate that each 
application was the same. And Id consider that £1,050 was a relatively low income albeit for 
part-time work. Plus, Mr H had declared to Fund Ourselves that he was single with no 
dependants and was living at home with his parents. 
The FRL states that Mr H had declared that his expenditure was £725 a month and yet other 
records indicate that the expenditure Mr H had declared was as listed here which adds up to 
£450.
Debt commitments £150 a month
Food and drinks £150
Leisure commitments £50
Travel commitments £50
Utility and bills £50
I am unclear as to the reason for the discrepancy on the figures here but in any event Fund 
Ourselves said in its FRL:
We are satisfied that the loans were affordable as we use the services of a national 
credit bureau to assess the accuracy of the information provided at the time of the 
application.
I have reviewed the credit searches and I can see that each one does record that Mr H had 
one County Court Judgment registered from 11 August 2016 for £351 which had been 
settled on 1 March 2018. In addition, Mr H had had three accounts (sometimes two) in the 
previous 36 months which had defaults recorded. One of those was for £391 in April 2019 
which was satisfied in March 2021. 
Then, in March 2022, having repaid loan 5 early, Mr H was refused loans 21 times. Fund Ourselves ought to have been alerted that Mr H was very keen to apply for credit which may 
have indicated an underlying financial issue. Fund Ourselves has made a point in the FRL 
that its good checks led to the refusals. That may be the case but equally the multiple 
applications and multiple refusals ought to have acted as there likely being an underlying 
issue its creditworthiness assessments ought to have uncovered before lending again. And 
yet it did lend again  at loan 6. No explanation has been given. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Fund Ourselves did before each loan which 
included asking Mr H for details of his income and expenditure, Ive also looked at the overall 
pattern of Fund Ourselves lending history with Mr H. I looked with a view to seeing if there 
was a point at which Fund Ourselves should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Fund Ourselves should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
It had just refused Mr H 21 loans in succession and so I think that it must have 
realised that there was a fundamental concern which ought to have led it to have 
ceased lending to Mr H, and
It had been almost a year from when Fund Ourselves had first lent to Mr H and he 
was still returning for more credit despite the history and lending relationship between 
them, and 
The break in the lending was not a gap at all as it was multiple refusals over several 
weeks. So, that combined with the sequential lending up to loan 5 leads me to think 
that Mr H was permanently looking for credit, even when it was refused, and
Fund Ourselves ought to have used this combined information when assessing 
Mr Hs creditworthiness to realise that Mr H was not applying to for loans to solve a 
short term cash flow problem  but it was a more fundamental issue.
I think that Mr H lost out when Fund Ourselves provided loans 6, 7 and 8 because:
Loans 6 to 8 had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed and /or had 
been refused loans, was likely to have had negative implications on his ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Consumers complaint about loans 6 to 8 and Ive outlined below what 
Fund Ourselves needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Fund Ourselves should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr H at loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular Fund Ourselves which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party Fund Ourselves with the same 
application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they 
had done that, the information that would have been available to such a Fund Ourselves and 
how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been 
the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new Fund Ourselves would have been able to lend to Mr H in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Fund Ourselves liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Fund Ourselves shouldnt have given Mr H loans 6 to 8. 
Its unclear whether loan 8 remains outstanding but assuming it does then Fund Ourselves 
should buy back the debt if that debt has been sold. If it is unable to buy the debt back then it 
needs to liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results below. 
A) Fund Ourselves should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 6 & 7, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded. If loan 8 has already been 
repaid then loan 8 needs to be included in this paragraph. 
B) Fund Ourselves should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Fund Ourselves should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 8 if 
it is outstanding and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then it should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Fund Ourselves should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Fund Ourselves should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. 
E) The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 6 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove loans 6 and 7 entirely from Mr Hs credit file 
now and when loan 8 has been repaid it should remove it. 
If loan 8 has already be repaid then it needs to be removed with loans 6 and 7 now. In the 
menatime it should remove any adverse information from the loan 8 record until it is 
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fund Ourselves to deduct tax from this interest. Fund 
Ourselves should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax Fund Ourselves has 
deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and I direct that FUND 
OURSELVES LIMITED does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman