DRN-3729151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned
down a claim they made on a global private medical insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs F are represented by Mr C.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs F applied for a global private medical insurance policy. Mrs F
told CIGNA - amongst other things - that in 2009, shed undergone treatment for breast
cancer. CIGNA agreed to offer cover to Mr and Mrs F and didnt add any medical exclusions
to their policy.
Unfortunately, in August 2021, Mrs F was diagnosed with a recurrence of breast cancer. So
she made a claim on the policy for the costs of mastectomy and reconstruction surgery.
CIGNA investigated Mrs Fs claim and obtained copies of reports setting out the findings of
mammograms shed undergone during 2018 and 2019  prior to taking out the policy.
CIGNA concluded that these reports showed that Mrs F had benign breast disease, which
she hadnt disclosed to it. CIGNA said that had Mrs F declared this finding to it, it wouldve
excluded cover for all claims related to her breasts. So it turned down the claim.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with CIGNAs decision and so Mr C asked us to look into their
complaint. He said, in summary, that the mammogram reports hadnt shown any adverse
finding which ought to have been declared to CIGNA.
Our investigator didnt think that CIGNA had treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. She noted that
CIGNAs application form had asked whether Mr and Mrs F had any illness, condition or
symptom that they hadnt disclosed. Mrs F had answered no. But having considered both
reports, the investigator also noted that the mammograms had found calcification in Mrs Fs
left breast  even though this had been benign. The investigator felt this calcification was a
symptom which Mrs F ought to have disclosed to CIGNA. So she concluded that CIGNA had
been entitled to rewrite the policy as if Mrs F had disclosed all of the information it wanted to
know.
The investigator was satisfied that based on the evidence CIGNA had provided, it had
shown that had Mrs F declared the benign calcification findings to it (in addition to her other
medical conditions), it wouldve added an exclusion at the outset for all breast-related
conditions. This meant that Mrs Fs claim would never have been covered and so the
investigator considered itd been fair for CIGNA to turn it down.
Mr C disagreed. He maintained that Mrs F had diagnosed her 2009 diagnosis of breast
cancer. He argued that classing benign findings as a symptom was absurd and didnt
constitute a reasonable basis in fact or law for turning down this claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think it had been fair for CIGNA to turn down Mr and Mrs 
Fs claim. I said:
When Mr and Mrs F applied for the policy, they were asked information about themselves,
their details and details about their medical history. CIGNA used this information to decide
whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs F and if so, on what terms.
CIGNA says that Mrs F didnt correctly answer a question about her existing medical history.
This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply
these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to correctly answer an
insurers questions and provides inaccurate information.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at
what Mr and Mrs F were asked when they took out the policy. For completeness, Id add that
theres some dispute about which version of the online application form Mr and Mrs F sent to
CIGNA. But this doesnt make any difference to my consideration of their complaint. Thats
because the evidence clearly shows that Mrs F did verbally disclose her previous cancer
diagnosis to CIGNA ahead of the policy becoming active. And in both versions of the
application form Ive seen; the following question has been answered in the same way:
Does anyone have any illness, condition or symptom not already mentioned? Please
include details of any known or suspected issues whether or not medical advice has been
sought or a diagnosis reached.
Both Mr and Mrs F answered no to this question on the online application form. It isnt clear
whether they were asked it again during the telephone medical screening, but Im satisfied
that they saw this question and answered it in the negative. CIGNA says that Mrs F
shouldve answered yes to this question, given the findings of her mammogram screenings
in 2018 and 2019. So Ive looked closely at these reports to decide whether I think she took
reasonable care to answer the question she was asked.
Ive first considered a report dated 9 July 2018  over a year before Mr and Mrs F applied for
the policy. This stated: there are benign-appearing calcifications located withinthe left
breast post lumpectomy.
This report concluded that there were benign findings and recommended that Mrs F should
have an annual mammogram.
The second mammogram report is dated 27 August 2019 (which is after Mrs F completed
the online form but appears to be prior to her verbal medical declaration to CIGNA on 30
August 2019). This stated: There is (sic) a few scattered punctuate calcification again noted
on the left. This report also stated: IMPRESSION: Benign findings and it recommended
correlation with a physical examination and an annual mammogram.
Both reports both broadly conclude that there were no suspicious findings to indicate
malignancy.
Mr C says as that the mammogram didnt make any finding of growths, lumps, cancerous
tumours, malignancy etc.; he considers that its absurd to consider the calcifications to be a
symptom. CIGNA hasnt suggested that the mammograms did find any evidence of the
recurrence of cancer or any sign of malignancy. Instead, it concludes that Mrs F ought tohave disclosed the findings in the mammogram.
Ive thought about this very carefully. Ive placed significant weight on the clarity of the
question Mrs F was asked and the conclusions of the mammogram reports. In my view, the
question is rather wide. It makes no reference to the relevant timeframe CIGNA wants to
know about. And it asks a policyholder to declare any symptom, illness or condition they
havent already disclosed, including any known or suspected issues. From my own research.
I understand that breast calcifications are small calcium deposits which are found in the
breast, which can be very common and are often benign. The reports here indicate that the
findings of both mammograms were benign. No diagnosis of any particular condition was
made  neither report refers to benign breast disease or to breast lumps. Nor do the reports
suggest that the calcification are issues  either
Given the above, I dont think CIGNAs question was clear enough to have prompted Mrs F
to declare a benign finding during a routine mammogram. And I also dont think that Mrs F is
likely to have considered a benign finding of calcifications and an overall conclusion of
benign findings to be a symptom, illness or a condition that shed need to tell CIGNA about.
On that basis then, whilst I accept this complaint is finely balanced, I currently think that Mrs
F did take reasonable care to answer the question she was asked by CIGNA. This means
that I dont currently think there was any misrepresentation by Mrs F at the time of policy
sale. And so it follows that Im not persuaded that CIGNA is reasonably entitled to apply the
legal remedy set out in CIDRA to Mr and Mrs Fs policy. For clarity, I dont find that CIGNA is
entitled to re-underwrite the policy or apply the retrospective exclusion for breast conditions.
In my view, the fair outcome to this complaint would be for CIGNA to remove the exclusion
for breast conditions from Mr and Mrs Fs policy and to reconsider the claim subject to the
remaining terms and conditions of the contract. I should make it clear that I dont intend to
direct CIGNA to pay this claim  it will be for CIGNA to assess the claim without reference to
the exclusion for breast conditions and to consider whether its covered by the policy terms
and conditions.
I must also make it clear that I dont plan to direct CIGNA to pay Mr and Mrs Fs legal fees.
Thats because we are a free and accessible service and consumers dont need legal
representation in order to bring their complaint to us. Neither do they require legal
representation to make a claim. And the policy terms dont cover any legal expenses a
policyholder incurs if they opt to use legal representation to do so. So I dont think it would be
fair or reasonable for me to require CIGNA to pay Mr and Mrs Fs legal costs.
I asked both parties to send me any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Both CIGNA and Mr C, on behalf of Mr and Mrs F, confirmed that they had nothing more to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or information, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to:
Remove the exclusion for breast conditions from Mr and Mrs Fs policy; and
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Fs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman