DRN-1933328
The complaint
Y Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss M approached Drafty for a running credit facility in April 2018. Miss M was given a 
facility with a £1,000 credit limit. It seems Miss M has had some problems repaying the  
drawdowns on the facility after it was suspended and an outstanding balance remains. It 
also seems that she is currently part of a repayment plan. 
This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ms complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility. 
 
However, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stopped Miss M from drawing down 
further on the facility by October 2018 because she wasnt using the facility in the way that 
Drafty had expected her to. So, the adjudicator didnt think that Drafty shouldve allowed any 
more drawdowns from 1 October 2018.
 
Drafty agreed with the adjudicator. But it said even after the refund Miss M would still have 
an outstanding balance to pay. It also agreed to remove any negative information about the 
account from Miss Ms credit file.
  
Miss M wasnt happy with this offer when it was made as she feels she has paid more 
interest than Drafty has suggested. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Drafty has agreed with our adjudicators findings that it was wrong to grant further 
drawdowns from 1 October 2018. It seems therefore that the lending from this date isnt in 
dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. But for clarity Ive set 
out what Drafty needs to do to put things right in line with the adjudicators recommendation. 
I would also point out that the adjudicators recommendation doesnt relate to interest from 1 
August 2018. This is an error in the adjudicators correspondence when she explained the 
offer to Miss M  the adjudicators assessment refers to the correct date of 1 October 2018 
and is the date from which Drafty has agreed it shouldnt have lent.    
So, this decision will focus on whether Drafty did anything wrong when it granted the facility 
and the drawdowns lent through to 30 September 2018. 
To begin, I want to be clear that Miss M wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay 
all of what she borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a 
facility where there was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest 
due within a period of at least 12 months. 
As Ive said, Miss M was granted a running credit facility with a £1,000 limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
and repaid that amount over 12 months, she wouldve paid a total of £1,343.05, meaning the 
monthly repayment wouldve been around £112. 
Drafty has provided us with the results of its credit checks. It knew that Miss M had nine 
active accounts. But the results didnt reveal any significant debt or adverse information 
which I think ought to have led Drafty to either carry out further checks or to have declined 
Miss Ms request for credit. 
Miss M has said that she feels the facility wasnt affordable. Before granting the facility, 
Drafty asked Miss M about her monthly income, which she confirmed was £1,789 per month 
and she also declared expenditure of £1,125 per month. Drafty increased this expenditure to 
£1,175 based on national average expense data. This left Miss M with a disposable income 
of just over £600 per month. Based on the information that Drafty gathered it seemed that 
Miss M would be able to afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
I also think, given this was the start of the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Drafty to 
have relied on the information it was provided. So, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended to Drafty asking Miss M to evidence her declared income and 
expenditure. Therefore, I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
 
However, that doesnt mean that Drafty hasnt done anything wrong. Ive also looked at how 
Miss M used the facility to see if there was a point at which Drafty should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
 
It may help if I explain that although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have provided the 
facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation to Miss M.  When the facility was approved, 
Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA had issued 
guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when 
granting these types of loans.
 
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Miss M used the facility in order to 
step in if and when she showed signs of possible financial difficulties.
 
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve seen this by October 2018. By this point, our 
adjudicator thought that Miss Ms borrowing history showed she was potentially reliant on the 
facility.
  
As Ive explained above, Drafty was required to monitor Miss Ms account and step in where 
financial difficulty became apparent. I agree with the adjudicator that there didnt seem to be anything concerning, such as consecutive repayment failures or patterns of unsustainable 
borrowing before this point. 
Initially Miss M drew down £200 followed by further drawdowns of £120 and £350 at the 
beginning of May 2018. At this point Miss Ms balance was well below the credit limit so 
didnt seem to be particularly concerning. Following a repayment of £20.72 she then drew 
down twice more in May 2018, which took her outstanding balance up to the facilitys credit 
limit.   
In the following four months Miss M only made around the minimum repayment. And not 
long after each repayment she drew down again taking her outstanding balance back up to 
the credit limit. I can see from Miss Ms credit report that shed also taken out two credit 
cards and had some short-term loans after the facility had started. 
I think these circumstances shouldve alerted Drafty to possible signs of financial difficulty 
given it says it did complete credit worthiness checks each month - although looking at the 
date of some of these accounts they may not have been seen through Draftys checks as it 
can take some time before they appear on a credit file. Overall though, I dont think there 
was quite enough evidence during this time to suggest that it ought to have stopped lending 
earlier than 1 October 2018.
  
Overall therefore I dont think Drafty did anything wrong before 1 October 2018. 
I understand Miss M isnt happy with the compensation offer (in connection with the lending 
from 1 October 2018) which Drafty has agreed to as she feels it doesnt reflect what she has 
paid. 
As Ive pointed out above, the calculation is from 1 October 2018 not 1 August 2018, so this 
will affect the interest that should be considered. It may also help to explain that Drafty 
doesnt need to simply refund all the payments that Miss M has made from 1 October 2018. 
Because a portion of each repayment that was made wouldve gone towards the principal 
sum that she owed  Drafty only needs to refund the interest part of the repayment. And I 
can see that Miss M drew down on the facility from 1 October 2018 as well  and these 
drawdowns need to be repaid. 
What it needs to do is to ensure that from 1 October 2018, Miss M only repays the principal 
borrowed  and if any interest have been charged on drawdowns from that date that interest 
needs to be refunded. In effect this then means that Miss M doesnt pay any interest on the 
drawdowns taken from 1 October 2018. I understand Miss M has also made further 
repayments since Drafty set out its offer, so this is also likely to affect the calculation. 
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should  in line with what it has already agreed to do: 
 
remove any unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance that 
were applied from 1 October 2018;
Then refund any interest fees and charges from the above date and then add 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of settlement*;
Drafty, can then use any refund from the above to offset any outstanding balance 
Miss M may now have (taking into account any payments she has made). It seems 
that after offsetting an outstanding principal balance is likely to remain, Drafty should 
try and make an arrangement with Miss M to repay the balance (which I understand 
is already in place). But Id remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss M fairly;  remove any negative information about the facility from Miss Ms credit file from 1 
October 2018. I understand that Miss M is subject to a repayment plan, in those 
circumstances I think it is fair that Drafty records the balance of the account 
decreasing in line with the repayments that are made. 
I think it would be helpful if Drafty forwards each section of its workings to Miss M 
when it has completed the redress calculation. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint.
 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Miss M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman