DRN-3150643
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Ms H says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Ms H was borrowing 100% of the value of the property she was purchasing. As a result, 
Nationwide made the PPI compulsory. Nationwide has provided evidence that it made 
this clear to Ms H. Ms H has explained that she knew the policy was compulsory and she 
chose to still continue with the application for the mortgage. If Ms H had decided that she 
didnt want the PPI she could have sought a mortgage elsewhere.
Ms Hs case has been assessed as if Nationwide recommended the PPI to her. Ms H 
was eligible for the cover and she had limited means to fall back on if she couldnt work, 
so the policy wasnt fundamentally unsuitable for her. 
There was nothing about Ms Hs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Ms H had experienced a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out I dont think it was wrong for Nationwide to have 
recommended it. I say this because without the PPI Ms H wouldnt have qualified for the 
mortgage. And although Ms M may not have been able to claim for her previous 
condition if it recurred, Ms H would still have been able to make a claim for any other 
eligible condition.  There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
or back problems.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out because she wanted the 
mortgage. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms H as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms H would have declined the 
cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman