DRN-2782843
The complaint
Mrs S has complained because her buildings insurer, Covea Insurance plc, has declined her 
claim made following a fire at her home.
What happened
Mrs S has insurance with Covea. Mrs S lets two rooms of her home to lodgers; whom Ill 
refer to as tenant 1 and tenant 2.
 
In February 2020 Mrs S had gone to visit a friend for the evening when she received a call 
from tenant 1 to say the house was on fire. Tenant 1 reported having left the home earlier 
that evening and been at a location nearby with friends when hed heard fire engines and 
returned to find tenant 2 outside and the fire brigade in attendance dealing with a fire which 
was later confirmed to have started in tenant 1s bedroom. The police secured the scene for 
analysis the next day and arrested tenant 2, believing hed been involved in the fire.
A forensic expert acting for the fire brigade and in conjunction with the police, assessed the 
scene the following day. In short the expert ruled out any electrical issues having caused the 
fire  noting that nothing was plugged in and the sockets were off. He felt the fire had likely 
been set deliberately.
Covea didnt have sight of this report until later but began investigating the claim. It 
appointed its own forensic expert  they assessed the scene in April 2020. They noted that, 
by this time, the room had been disturbed with some items having been removed to the 
garden. The expert considered the possibility of accidental ignition, perhaps by discarded 
smoking materials, an electrical cause, and whether the fire had been deliberately set. The 
expert found the remains of a plug in the socket and thought this should be tested to 
positively rule out an electrical cause, but said it was felt the fire had likely been deliberately 
set.
In June 2020 Covea was advised by the police that its investigations had been completed 
and the police were authorising the fire brigade, if Covea asked for it, to share a copy of the 
forensic report. Covea took a fortnight to act on this. Once it obtained the report it reviewed 
everything and wrote to Mrs S on 10 July 2020 advising her it was declining the claim. 
Covea said that based on all the evidence it had obtained it felt it was most likely that 
tenant 2 had started the fire deliberately. Covea noted that its policy holds a general 
exclusion for deliberate acts and so said it was declining the claim. 
Mrs S felt this was unfair, especially as she noted that the police hadnt ultimately made any 
charges against tenant 2. She also felt Covea had taken too long to consider this claim. In 
October 2020 Covea issued a final response to Mrs S. It said that it stood by its claim 
decision and it felt it had handled the claim in a reasonably timely manner. Mrs S complained 
to this service. 
Our investigator felt Covea had acted fairly in declining the claim and that it hadnt caused 
any avoidable delays. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs S said the outcome couldnt possibly be fair  she had lost everything whereas if Covea 
accepted her claim it had nothing to lose. Mrs S said she didnt understand how, if we felt the 
situation was unclear (as mentioned by our investigator) we could make any decision about 
what was likely to have happened. She said it wasnt right that Covea, as an insurer, could 
overturn the polices findings and decision about how the fire had likely been started and by 
whom. Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a distressing time for Mrs S and that Coveas decision has put her 
in a difficult and unfortunate position. However, with regret for the further upset, I know this 
will cause Mrs S, I think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim, as such 
I dont uphold her complaint. Ive set out my findings below.
It isnt my job to determine the cause of the fire, or even the outcome for the claim. Rather it 
is for me to consider whether Covea, as the property insurer, acted fairly and reasonably in 
assessing and determining the claim. In this case the determination was that Covea was 
declining the claim. 
Covea, like many insurers, doesnt agree to offer cover for anything and everything that may 
occur. Rather, as its policy explains, it offers cover against damage caused by a list of 
certain events or perils. And the policy also contains various exclusions to cover; where if 
damage is caused or affected by situations subject to the exclusions, Covea wont be liable 
for the claim. It is for Covea to show, where it wants to decline a claim based on an 
exclusion, that its most likely that the particular exclusion in question applies in the 
circumstances of the claim and can, therefore, fairly and reasonably be relied on. 
The exclusion in question here is for damage caused by deliberate acts of Mrs S or her 
lodgers. Because this is an insurance policy, to rely on this exclusion to defeat its liability for 
the claim, Covea only has to show this was most likely the case. In other words that it is 
more likely than not that the fire was set deliberately by Mrs S or her lodger.
There is no suggestion that Mrs S was involved in this incident. But its fair to say that a good 
degree of suspicion fell on tenant 2. Whilst the police didnt pursue charges against tenant 2 
they work to different standards than insurers  just because a criminal investigation isnt 
pursued, or is but isnt successful, doesnt mean that an insurer cant make its own decisions 
about what most likely occurred. 
I think its fair to say neither expert has shown conclusively how the fire started  either by 
location in the room or on account of what materials formed the source. Having seen both 
reports Im satisfied they consider various relevant elements and explain what the expert 
feels about them, and what the experts conclusions are. I think its fair to say they broadly 
concur with each other  both concluding that the fire was likely set deliberately. The only 
difference I can see is that Coveas expert felt some enquiries regarding an electrical cause 
of the fire might be worth pursuing  he couldnt say for sure if the sockets had been off, so 
didnt feel an electrical cause could be conclusively ruled out. In contrast the fire brigades 
expert was satisfied the sockets were switched off and felt able to entirely rule out an 
electrical cause. 
There was other evidence available to Covea too, such as statements from Mrs S and 
tenant 1, along with comments and accounts given and obtained from other witnesses to the 
fire. In summary these and the police record of the incident all seem to suggest, to some varying degree, that tenant 1 and 2 did not get along, tenant 2 was at the property at the 
time of the fire and shortly thereafter, and that tenant 2 was acting somewhat oddly. It was 
also evident to Covea that both tenants had only recently moved into the property and that 
Mrs S had not obtained references for them.
I appreciate that Mrs S thinks tenant 2 is unlikely to have started the fire as he was the one 
who had called the fire brigade. But I cant see that his reporting the fire means it was 
unlikely to have been him who set it. I understand that Mrs S thinks tenant 1s statement 
cant wholly be relied upon  but I dont think Covea has done that. I think it has taken this 
information on board and reviewed it only in light of all the evidence obtained. Covea is 
entitled to do that  and, having seen the evidence Covea had available to it, I think it 
concluded the claim fairly and reasonably.
It was over four months from the date of the fire when Covea first wrote to Mrs S declining 
her claim. I appreciate this was a difficult time for Mrs S and, ideally, Covea would have 
given its answer sooner. But fire investigations can take time and I see that here, whilst 
Covea did take action to make its own enquiries it, not unreasonably, wanted to see the 
results of the fire and police investigations before making a final decision on the claim. I see 
that Coveas decline letter was sent to Mrs S around a month after the police advised their 
investigations were concluded. I think Covea acted reasonably and Im not persuaded it 
caused any avoidable delays in handling and answering the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman