DRN-3665424
The complaint
Miss L has complained eBay Commerce UK Ltd blocked her account and has continued to 
hold onto her money.
What happened
Miss L has been using an eBay account for a number of years to sell goods. eBay 
introduced revised terms and conditions in 2021 to coincide with their revised regulatory 
status.
Miss L wasnt able to provide them with current photo ID in accordance with eBays terms 
and conditions. They stopped her access to her account and retained her funds.
Miss L was unhappy with eBays response which she didnt believe met her needs.
Our investigator believed eBay had done nothing wrong. He also didnt agree with Miss L 
that eBays terms and conditions were confusing.
Miss L was unhappy with this response which she didnt believe fully covered the issues she 
had raised. Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 August 2022. Whilst I agreed eBay were able to 
close Miss Ls account, I asked them to return the money they continued to hold.
Miss L accepted this outcome. eBay didnt. They believed they had adequate reasons  
related to not allowing Miss L to continue as a customer  for not returning the money.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
I have reviewed all the correspondence Miss L has sent us and the emails she referred to in 
her correspondence with our service. Ive also paid attention to eBays correspondence 
including their response to my provisional decision.
My role allows me to decide what I believe is important in coming to a decision on anyones 
complaint. I have done this here. I certainly mean no disrespect to Miss L or eBay. I have 
concentrated on what I believe are the key issues that affect the decision Im making.
I can see the issues arose with Miss Ls account only after new terms and conditions had 
been issued in 2021. Miss L believed she could opt out of the revised terms and conditions 
without this meaning she would in effect be terminating her account.
I appreciate her point that the terms and conditions are lengthy. I certainly dont disagree. 
However where required I believe they are clear. Specifically they allow eBay to require 
specific ID from their customers and if they dont receive this than they can close an account.
Theres no dispute Miss L was unable to provide eBay with appropriate and current 
photographic ID. Therefore I cannot say they were wrong to close her account.
However more than nine months has now passed. It appears eBay has taken no steps to 
return Miss Ls money. In communication to Miss L on 30 November 2021, eBay confirmed 
they will return money after 180 days. This time has now passed. 
Our investigator checked with eBay and they confirmed £510.65 remained outstanding. They 
believe Miss L was given incorrect information and they apologise for the error. eBay has 
confirmed their reasons for continuing to hold onto Miss Ls money. However Ive seen 
nothing which suggests that if Id not questioned what was happening, eBay were taking the 
required action to sort this out.
Despite what eBay has told us, they cannot hold onto these funds ad infinitum and should be 
taking steps to return them to their rightful owner. Theres been no evidence provided what 
eBay were planning on doing.
On that basis I dont see why I shouldnt expect eBay to abide by the information they 
provided to Miss L. This was a key aspect of her original complaint.
Putting things right
I now expect eBay to refund Miss L. As the money has been held onto well beyond the 180 
days originally confirmed to Miss L, I believe its right they also add 8% simple interest to that 
amount from the end of the 180-day period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct eBay Commerce UK Ltd to:
Refund £510.65 to Miss L; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 180 days after initially closing 
Miss Ls account until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman