DRN-2862791
The complaint
Mr R complains that a training course was misrepresented to him and that he didnt know 
that hed entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance 
Limited to pay for the course. Hes being helped with his complaint by his representative.
What happened
Mr R registered for a plumbing course in July 2016. He says that he tried to cancel the 
course about a month later but couldnt do so and continued paying for it even though he 
stopped taking the course. He complained about the course in October 2020. Caledonian 
Consumer Finance said that Mr R had been provided with extensive information about the 
course and details of the loan agreement, including his cancellation rights, but he didnt 
exercise those rights within the time allowed so the course remained available to him until it 
expired in July 2019.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that there was enough 
information to show that Mr R was entering into a finance agreement and he had the option 
to cancel the agreement within 14 days but didnt do so. And she couldnt say that the 
course was misrepresented to him.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. His representative 
says that Mr R never received his pack, he didnt log in until after the 14 day cooling off 
period and he wouldnt know the course wouldnt be what he had expected until after he 
logged in and attempted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R signed a registration form for the plumbing course in July 2016 which described 
the course as Complete Prof Weekend with a total cost of £7,145 and a box was 
ticked to show that he would be paying for the course using a credit agreement;
in the registration form he confirmed that hed received the complete course kit, study 
guide and a copy of the credit agreement and that he understood the open learning 
nature of the self study program and his cancellation rights;
Mr R also signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance in 
which he agreed to make 43 monthly payments of £165 to repay the loan of £7,145  
the loan was interest free and immediately above his signature it says: This is a 
Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms;
the loan agreement also said that Mr R had the right to withdraw from the agreement 
within 14 days;
Mr R says that he tried to cancel the course after about a month  but at that time his 
right to cancel his registration for the course and to withdraw from the loan 
agreement had ended  and Caledonian Consumer Finance says that neither it nor 
the course provider has any record of Mr R requesting a cancellation;
he says that he continued to pay for the course, completed two modules and realised 
that it wasnt for him  but Caledonian Consumer Finance says he completed eight 
essays over the course of a year and then didnt submit anymore;
I can understand Mr Rs frustration that the course wasnt for him and that hes paid 
for something that he hasnt fully used, but he signed the registration form and 
confirmed that hed received the course kit and credit agreement and understood 
how the course worked and his cancellation rights  he started the course and it 
remained available to him but he chose not to complete it;
I consider that Mr R knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he was entering 
into the loan agreement to pay for the course  and hes provided no other evidence 
to show how he was going to pay for the course;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the course was 
misrepresented to Mr R or that Caledonian Consumer Finance has acted incorrectly 
in its dealings with him about the course and the loan; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Caledonian Consumer Finance to refund to Mr R any of the money that hes paid for 
the course, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman