DRN-3880036
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as 
Very, irresponsibly granted her a catalogue shopping account she says she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs K entered into an agreement with Shop Direct to have access to credit by 
way of a Very catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £3,500. 
The account balance was paid off and the account closed in August 2022. 
Mrs K says that Shop Direct didnt complete adequate affordability checks and the opening 
credit limit was too high. 
Shop Direct agreed that the opening credit limit it had given Mrs K was probably too high 
and so made an offer to settle her complaint for all interest and fees she was charged when 
her level of credit usage went above £1,000. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought Shop Directs offer was fair. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with this outcome and requested that her complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Prior to providing the credit for, Shop Direct says it carried out a check using a credit 
reference agency, in addition to the information Mrs K had provided in her application. Ive 
seen from the results of that check that Mrs Ks recent credit history didnt raise any 
concerns. It had been more than two years since Mr K had had arrears on any of her 
existing credit and there were no adverse records on her credit file. 
It is of course possible that Shop Directs checks at the time of the account opening 
werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. I think verifying Mrs Ks level of 
income at the time would have been proportionate, especially given the relatively high 
opening credit limit it was granting her. Having had the opportunity to review Mrs Ks 
financial circumstances at the time, including the bank statements she has provided, I 
dont think Shop Direct has acted unfairly in making an offer to compensate Mrs K based 
on an opening credit limit of £1,000. I say this having seen that Mrs K generally managed 
her account well and often made payments that were over the minimum required. Her 
highest recorded usage of the available credit was around £1,100.
Given what Shop Direct knew about Mrs Ks existing financial circumstances, I dont think 
proportionate checks would have likely revealed any other concerns about affordability. I 
therefore dont think Shop Direct has acted unfairly in making its offer to compensate 
Mrs K for the usage of credit on her account over the level of £1,000. 
It follows that I think Shop Directs offer to refund all interest, fees and charges that were 
incurred on the account over a credit limit of £1,000 is fair. Shop Direct needs to pay this to 
Mrs K if it has not done so already. Shop Direct also needs to ensure it has amended 
Mrs Ks credit file, if necessary. 
I therefore dont make any award as I dont think Mrs K has been caused any additional loss 
or material distress or inconvenience as a result of Shop Directs actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman