DRN-1705931
Complaint 
Mr B complains that HFC Bank Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him 
in 2003. 
Background
PPI was sold to Mr B when he took a loan out to buy an electrical item in a shop. The loan 
agreement was for 48 months and the APR was 29.5%. However, if Mr B repaid the loan 
before the 13th instalment, he wouldnt have to pay any interest. I understand Mr B did repay 
the loan within that interest-free period.  He paid 12 PPI premiums of £4.60, a total of 
£55.20. 
Mr B complained to HFC about the PPI sale in 2019. In response, it said the amount Mr B 
had to pay to settle the loan was reduced by £55.20 (the total cost of the PPI premiums). 
That meant Mr B hadnt actually paid for the PPI because his premiums were treated as 
repayments towards the borrowing. HFC said Mr B had not been financially disadvantaged 
by having the PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought that although Mr B 
had been charged for PPI, HFC had already refunded everything hed paid. So Mr B hadnt 
lost out financially. 
Mr B didnt agree with that view. He interpreted our adjudicators letter as saying that the 
refund had been paid to him. He questioned how HFC could say it had refunded him if it 
didnt have a lot of information about the cover. He had no recollection of receiving a refund 
and said he needed to see evidence of it. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive carefully considered all of the issues raised in this matter. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, 
but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
This was a difficult case to consider because the evidence before me was sparse. HFC 
doesnt have much information about Mr Bs account. Thats not surprising given the policy 
was sold around almost 17 years ago. I wouldnt expect a business to keep records 
indefinitely. Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that was signed by Mr B. And Ive been 
given screenshots of the little bit of information still stored on HFCs electronic systems. Mr B 
hasnt provided any evidence from the time of the sale and I wouldnt expect him to have 
retained such documentation after such a long time either. 
So, Ive made my decision based on the evidence I have. Ive considered at length what Mr 
B remembers about how the policy was sold. Ive also taken account of what we know about the type of cover Mr B bought. Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I 
apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I decide whats most likely to have 
happened based on the evidence before me. 
Looking at the credit agreement and as I said above, I can see that the loan Mr B took out 
was interest free as long as it was repaid in full before the 13th instalment was due. From 
the electronic evidence HFC provided, I can see that Mr B paid 12 PPI premiums. As no PPI 
was charged for a 13th instalment, Im satisfied that its most likely Mr B repaid the loan 
within the interest-free period. 
For this type of borrowing, where the loan is repaid within the interest-free period, HFC 
would take the amount that had been paid for PPI off the final settlement figure. So in this 
case, I would expect it to have reduced the amount Mr B had to repay by £55.20. 
Mr B told us he doesnt recall receiving a refund. I dont doubt that what he told us is what he 
honestly remembers about the settlement of his account. But I have to be very mindful of the 
fact that it is difficult to remember precisely what happened over 15 years ago, which is 
when this account would have been settled. Thats particularly the case given that the refund 
wouldnt have been paid directly to Mr B, but would have been an adjustment to the 
settlement amount.  
I agree with Mr B that there isnt a lot of evidence in this case and HFC hasnt been able to 
provide a screenshot showing the account transactions. But I cant uphold the complaint just 
because of that. As I said above, I have to consider whats most likely to have happened. In 
this case and on balance, Im satisfied Mr B was most likely refunded through an adjustment 
to the settlement figure. 
As our adjudicator explained, where PPI is mis-sold, I would expect a business to return a 
consumer to the position they would have been in if that policy hadnt been sold to them. 
Usually, that would mean telling a business to refund all of the premiums that customer paid. 
So even if I found PPI had been mis-sold, I couldnt tell HFC to refund Mr Bs premiums 
because it has most likely already done so. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I dont think he suffered a financial loss 
because of the PPI sale. So, I don't need to make a finding on whether the PPI was mis-
sold, because doing so would make no difference to the outcome.
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about HFC Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman