DRN-2247818
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt re-calculate his mortgage correctly when 
he made a lump sum payment, and didnt explain what he would need to pay in future.
What happened
Mr O has a mortgage and a linked mortgage current account (MCA) with Barclays. 
In February 2020, he paid a lump sum of £60,000. He says that Barclays didnt tell him what 
his revised payment would be. And when it did, the monthly payment hadnt reduced by as 
much as he expected given the amount hed paid off.
Barclays said it had sent revised payment notices to Mr O. It had sent three  when he first 
made the payment; when he asked for part of the payment to be applied to the MCA and 
part to the mortgage; and when he asked for part of the payment to be used to make 
Februarys monthly payment.
Mr O said he didnt receive any of the payment notices. When he rang to find out what he 
had to pay each month and to set up a direct debit, he didnt think the figure could be right. 
So he raised a complaint. He says he hasnt been able to make any of his payments since 
then because he doesnt know what to pay. 
Mr O says Barclays shouldnt charge him interest from February onwards. Thats because 
Barclays hasnt calculated his mortgage properly so he doesnt know what to pay. And 
because in March the government told Barclays to give him a payment holiday, which meant 
it couldnt charge interest any longer.
Barclays looked at what it had done with the overpayment. It accepted it hadnt calculated 
things quite right, so it corrected Mr Os mortgage. It offered £300 compensation - £150 for 
not explaining the new monthly payment in February, and a further £150 for the error in 
allocating the lump sum it later found. It also offered to write off a small amount of interest 
that had been incurred on the MCA as a result.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. But Mr O asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the payment notices Barclays sent out in February. I think it did send them. Its 
unlikely Royal Mail would have lost three separate letters  Im not aware of any wider 
problem with Mr Os post  so I think its likely he did receive at least some of them.
However, Mr O is a vulnerable person, and Barclays was aware of that. He wanted to 
understand how the new payment had been calculated, and the standard notices didnt 
explain that to him. I think this did cause him some upset, and I think the offer of £150 is fair 
compensation for this.
Turning to how the lump sum was dealt with, I think Barclays has now put matters right.
The first think to note is that before making the £60,000 lump sum, Mr O had an overdraft 
balance of £33,541.05 on the MCA. And his mortgage was £20,501.52 in arrears.
So while Mr O made a payment of £60,000, it was used to clear the overdraft on the MCA 
and the arrears on the mortgage. After that was done, there was only £5,973.98 left.
That means that although Mr O made a lump sum payment of £60,000, he only actually 
made an overpayment of £5,973.98 to his mortgage. 
And secondly, the overpayment wasnt used to reduce his outstanding mortgage balance. It 
was kept separate as an overpayment reserve, or buffer.
Thats why Mr Os monthly payment didnt reduce by anything like as much as he was 
expecting. Although hed made a lump sum payment of £60,000, he hadnt reduced his 
mortgage balance by £60,000  most of the payment was used to clear arrears and the 
overdraft on the MCA.
As Mr O didnt make any payments from March onwards, because he was unhappy about 
what had happened, the remaining amount was used up to cover the monthly payments 
from then onwards. However, that balance is now used up  and so if Mr O doesnt start 
making his payments again, his mortgage will fall back into arrears. 
Barclays has explained how it initially made a mistake in allocating the lump sum between 
the mortgage and the MCA, leaving a debit balance of £210.61 on the MCA. Its now 
corrected that, transferring the funds back from the mortgage overpayment reserve, and its 
written off the extra interest charged on the £210.61 on the MCA. And, while the correction 
reduces the amount of the overpayment reserve on the main mortgage by that amount, I 
think thats fair. It puts the mortgage back in the position it should have been in.
Mr O has referred to fees charged on his MCA account statement. There are several 
transactions of around £7 each in March. But these arent fees. They were payments taken 
from his MCA account to cover additional interest charged on the mortgage because the 
payment took a few days to clear. Barclays has taken account of these in re-working the 
mortgage.
Barclays has offered a further £150 compensation for the mistake in allocating the funds. As 
its done that alongside correcting the payment and writing off the extra interest, I think thats 
a fair way to resolve this part of Mr Os complaint. I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Barclays to waive several months worth of interest. It told Mr O, over the phone in March as 
well as in the notices in February, what he needed to pay. Even if the funds had been 
allocated in the right way from the start, he would always have had to pay interest.
Our investigator has shared the detailed calculations with Mr O.
Mr O says Barclays shouldnt be charging interest anyway, because the government told it to 
give payment holidays. But Im afraid thats not right either. 
The government hasnt told lenders to give borrowers payment holidays. The regulator, the FCA, has said lenders should usually grant payment holidays to borrowers who ask for them 
because their income has been affected by the coronavirus pandemic. And where a 
mortgage is on a payment holiday, that means the borrower doesnt need to make payments 
for that time  but interest will still be charged and added to the mortgage.
This isnt something thats relevant to this case. Mr O hasnt asked Barclays for a payment 
holiday  and even if he had, interest would still be charged. But if hes experiencing 
financial difficulty because of the pandemic (or for any other reason), he should get in touch 
with Barclays and see if it can help.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think Barclays offer of £300 compensation is fair in all the 
circumstances, as well as re-allocating the lump sum payment properly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr O £300 compensation
Re-calculate the mortgage and MCA following lump sum payment as set out in the 
email of 7 August 2020.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman