DRN-3030977
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2010 with a 
loan. Mrs A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
mainly to Lloyds.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought Lloydss subsequent offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mrs A paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs As complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint but I too 
think that the offer made by Lloyds to pay some of the commission element back is fair.
did Mrs A agree to buy the PPI?
I think Lloyds made it clear enough that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen her application form for the loan which 
contained a section with an option box on it. This said, I wish to apply for loan protection 
insurance. Mrs A ticked the box to signify she wanted this type of insurance. Mrs A didnt 
need to tick this section if she didnt want to and because this was a branch sale, I think she 
would have also discussed the insurance with an adviser before making her choice. As well 
as ticking the box, she also signed at this point on the form, specifically agreeing to the PPI. 
She also signed her name elsewhere on the form to agree to the loan section. 
So I think this shows Lloyds correctly obtained Mrs As consent for the PPI to be added.
Was the PPI suitable?
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A as part of an advised sale so it had a duty to make 
sure it was a suitable product for her. I think it was.
For example, Mrs A was eligible for the cover and although she already had some sick pay 
with her job, the PPI policy would have paid her loan repayments for up to a year if she lost 
her job or was unable to work. The company representing her says she would have had 12-
months full sick pay already with her job. However, my experience of the type of job Mrs A 
had is that six months of this sick pay would have been at half-pay, rather than full-pay. It 
was also said Mrs A enjoyed death in service benefit. Ive considered this and all her other 
means and benefits of that time, but Im afraid having the PPI didnt conflict, in my view, with 
any of the other benefits she had. Death in service, for instance, covers a different 
eventuality to the PPI so having both wasnt necessarily wrong for her.
Ive also taken note of what was said about Mrs As medical history. However, no evidence 
or real details were submitted about the illnesses she had experienced and whilst Im sure 
these would have been issues of concern for her at the time(s), I think her ability to make a 
claim under the policy rules, for most eventualities, wouldnt have been affected, or indeed 
changed her mind about buying the PPI. Her representative also made certain complaint 
points about back problems and mental health issues being especially difficult to claim for, 
but I dont see any such exclusions in the policy rules. 
After thinking very carefully about all the above issues, I dont think Mrs As situation - or her 
employment or occupation - would have made it difficult for her to claim. I therefore dont 
think the PPI being recommended to her was unreasonable: the policy was suitable for her. 
was Mrs A told enough?
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out and the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mrs A, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably would have thought 
she was buying from the information she was most likely given at the point of sale. It also 
looks like it was affordable for her, so it seems to me like it would have been useful if 
something went wrong. I note the cost of the policy was set out directly next to where she 
signed to agree to it. Because of all this I dont think Mrs A would have declined the cover, 
even if Lloyds might have done a better job at explaining some things.
Mrs As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale part of 
the complaint. 
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs A because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs A should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs A wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcommission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs As representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs A paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs A with the policy Ive concluded 
above she would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs As complaint or make any award for this.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs A an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) 
which I understand Lloyds has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman