DRN-4401522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Euroins AD declined their claim against their travel insurance 
policy. Reference to Euroins includes its agents.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, In July 2022, Mr and Mrs F booked accommodation abroad for 
themselves and two friends for 16 September 2022 to 19 September 2022. Their friends 
booked and paid for the corresponding flights.
On 10 September 2022, Mr and Mrs F bought a single trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Euroins. 
On 15 September 2022, Mr and Mrs Fs outbound flights were cancelled due to industrial 
action. The airline refunded the flight costs to their friend who had booked the flights.   
Mr and Mrs F made a claim against their travel policy in relation to unused 
accommodation costs. 
Euroins declined Mr and Mrs Fs claim. It said that the cancellation provisions in the 
policy dont cover what happened here. Euroins also said that the period of insurance for 
all sections except for cancellation cover starts when the insured leaves home for the 
trip. Here, Mr and Mrs F hadnt left home for their trip when the airline cancelled their 
flights. Euroins said that Mr and Mrs F cant claim for something that happened before 
the period of insurance. 
Mr and Mrs F say that they reasonably expected to be covered by the policy. They want 
Euroins to settle their claim and refund the unused accommodation costs. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Euroins had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim. The investigator said that neither the 
cancellation nor the travel delay and abandonment provisions in the policy cover what 
happened here. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs F responded to say that its 
incredible that the policy doesnt cover cancelled flights and that Euroins should have 
highlighted that. If it had done so, she wouldnt have taken out the policy and would have 
used a different provider. 
Mrs F doesnt think that Euroins acted fairly. She said its unfair for Euroins to say that it 
would cover their accommodation costs if their flights had been delayed but wont do so 
because their flights were cancelled. Mrs F said that through no fault of their own, they 
are substantially out of pocket. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs F said but didnt change her view.             
Mr and Mrs F asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The policy contains the following definition: 
Period of insurance: The period of insurance for all sections except cancellation 
commences when you leave your home in your home country to start your trip and ends 
when you have returned to your home in your home country. Cancellation cover for a 
Single Trip policy starts when you purchase this insurance or when you book your trip, 
whichever is the later. []
has Euroins acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Euroins has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have sympathy for 
Mr and Mrs Fs position. As they say, they are out of pocket through no fault of their own. 
Having said that, I dont think that Euroins acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining their 
claim. Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. In general terms, insurers can decide what risks 
they wish to cover. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs F had cancellation cover from the date they bought the 
policy. The cancellation section of the policy covered unused accommodation costs 
if Mr and Mr F cancelled their trip due to certain, specified reasons. The 
cancellation of outbound flights due to industrial action isnt one of the insured 
perils in the cancellation cover. So, I dont think that Euroins was at fault in 
declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim under the cancellation provisions.
I dont think that Euroins should have specifically brought to Mr and Mrs Fs 
attention that the circumstances that led to their claim arent covered by the 
cancellation provisions in their policy. Thats because the cancellation of a trip 
because of the cancellation of outbound flights isnt usually covered in this sort of 
policy. So, I dont think the fact that its not covered by Mr and Mrs Fs policy is 
something thats unusual such that it should have been brought to their attention at 
the point of sale. 
Cover under all other sections of the policy apart from the cancellation section was 
due to start when Mr and Mrs F left home to start their trip. Mr and Mrs Fs flights 
were cancelled before they left home to start their trip. So, theres no cover under 
the TRAVEL DELAY BENEFIT section of the policy or, indeed, any other section 
of the policy. 
Ive looked at the information made available to Mr and Mrs F at the point of sale. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is a summary of cover and directs Mr and Mrs F to the full policy terms and conditions. I think that the full 
terms and conditions are clear about whats covered in the event of cancellation. 
I think that Euroins acted in accordance with the policys terms and conditions in 
declining the claim. But Ive gone on to consider whether that results in a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. In some circumstances, wed think its unfair for 
an insurer to say that a claim for abandonment isnt covered because a flight was 
cancelled, not delayed. But thats when a claim is otherwise covered under the 
policy, which isnt the case here as Mr and Mrs F hadnt started their trip. Ive 
thought about this carefully. I dont think there are any grounds on which I can fairly 
direct Euroins to deal with Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman