DRN-4183040
The complaint
Mr P complains that FUND OURSELVES Limited (Fund Ourselves) gave him loans without 
carrying out sufficient and correct affordability checks.
What happened
Mr P was advanced four loans and below is a table summarising his borrowing. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly  
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 06/10/2021 07/10/2021 4 £88.00
2 £150.00 20/10/2021 10/01/2022 4 £68.40
3 £200.00 10/01/2022 03/02/2022 4 £94.00
4 £200.00 04/02/2022 29/04/2022 4 £96.08
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after it has been reviewed by 
Fund Ourselves who didnt uphold it. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld. She concluded that proportionate checks had been carried out and there 
was no indication that either Mr P was in financial difficulties, or that the loans couldnt be 
repaid in a sustainable manner. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed and so the case has been passed 
to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors 
include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. As there were only four loans 
granted within four months and some were repaid much quicker than contracted for the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mr Ps complaint and I agree. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint. Having considered all the information 
provided, I have also concluded Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks and so it 
doesnt need to take any further action. 
As part of his application, Mr P declared a monthly income for all of his loans of £1,800. Mr P 
was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different variables, such as 
outstanding debt, rent and travel. He declared these costs to be £1,085 per month for loan 
one and then £1,035 for loans two, three and four. Given these were the first loans that Mr S 
had been granted, I do think it was reasonable of Fund Ourselves to have relied on the 
information Mr P had provided. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr P provided, that he had enough 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly loan repayment of £96.08. Therefore, it 
wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loans to be affordable. 
Before the loans were approved, Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search before lending. 
But there wasnt a requirement for it to do so. But it did have to consider the information it 
received from the credit reference agency. 
Having looked at the results, there wasnt anything that I can see that wouldve led 
Fund Ourselves to have either declined or have prompted it to have carried out further 
checks. All four credit searches showed Mr P hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the 
last 36 months and there hadnt been any accounts enter delinquency within the last 12 
months. It also knew that Mr P didnt have any County Court Judgements. 
Ive also looked at the way the loans were repaid and I can see that loans one and three 
were repaid much quicker than planned and without any obvious repayment problems. So, I 
dont think when these loans were granted that the pattern of lending ought to have given 
Fund Ourselves cause for concern. 
In this case, I cant say that a four-loan lending chain, where the second loan was smaller 
than the first ought to have been a red flag for Fund Ourselves to have carried out further checks or to have declined the lending. The lending chain also wasnt large enough to have 
made Fund Ourselves conclude that Mr P was using them in an unsustainable manner. 
This also means, that I dont yet think it had reached the point in the lending relationship 
where Fund Ourselves wouldve concluded it needed to have verified what Mr P was telling 
it. I appreciate that Mr P has provided copies of his bank statements. But in this case, taking 
account of the size of each payment and what Mr P declared it wouldve been 
disproportionate for Fund Ourselves to have viewed them.  
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved - 
which showed Mr P could afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im also 
satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Mr P declared about his income and 
expenditure. There also wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
So, I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong when it approved the loans for Mr P and 
it therefore follows that I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman