DRN-4301179
The complaint
T, a limited company, is unhappy with the amount Zurich Insurance PLC paid following a 
claim it made on its business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Following a fire at its premises in July 2019, T made a claim on its business protection
insurance policy. Zurich said T was under insured and so it would reduce the amount
payable in line with the average condition which the policy contained.
T disputed Zurich was able to do that. It said guidance produced by Zurich said where an
insured hadnt made a fair presentation of risk (and that wasnt deliberate or reckless) it
wouldnt reduce the value of the claim but would charge the additional premium that would
have applied if it had known all the material facts. And the policy summary contained the
same information. It thought any inconsistency with the policy document should be read in
favour of the customer.
Our investigator thought the policy terms were clear in relation to the average clause and
that formed the contract between the parties. And while Zurichs guidance set out its general
approach it also explained that where a policy contained an average clause thats what
would apply. So he thought Zurich had acted reasonably in applying average in this case.
T didnt agree. It said its director was a layperson who wasnt experienced in insurance and
wouldnt have had the understanding of these matters that Zurich did. It shouldnt require a
lawyer to interpret what a policy meant and T made the decision to take out the policy based
on the information it was provided with at that time and relied on the policy summary. It
wasnt provided with the policy wording until after the sale had completed. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at Ts policy which does contain clauses that allows Zurich to settle a claim
on a proportionate basis where underinsurance has taken place. Under the business
protection section it says:
If at the time of the damage the sum insured for Item 1  Loss of income and extra
expenses is less than the income which would have been received during the maximum
term allowed by the indemnity period but for the damage, the amount we pay will be reduced
in proportion to the amount of the under insurance.
However, as this dispute has arisen due to the information that was provided when the policy
was first taken out and at subsequent renewals, I think its fair to first consider the relevant
law. And as Ts policy is a commercial one the law that applies here is the Insurance Act
2015 which sets out remedies open to a business when its found a policyholder didnt
provide the information they ought to have done when the policy was taken out.
Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to
the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder
must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. If it is found they didnt
fulfil this duty then in order to say there has been a qualifying breach, the insurer needs to
show that it would have either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on different terms.
In this case T hasnt questioned Zurichs conclusion that it was under-insured or raised any
issues in relation to that either in its complaint to it or subsequently with us. And I can see
that when taking out the policy it declared an annual income of around £614,450. Under the
policy terms the insured amount was the greater of twice that amount or £1.5 million. But the
claim it made for the subsequent two years period amounted to around £2 million (Zurichs
calculation of the figure was around £1.83 million).
The renewal documentation T was sent said Please check the details in the enclosed
documents are correct and the cover meets your needs. Remember it is important your
sums insured are adequate or you may find in the event of a claim you may not receive full
settlement." I think if T thought its income was going to increase as significantly as the claim
it subsequently made indicated, it should have told Zurich so the insured amount under the
policy could be amended, and a premium charged to reflect that. As it didnt do that, I dont
think it made a fair presentation of risk to Zurich.
Zurich has said it would have charged a higher premium to reflect that increased risk of
around £3,890 (compared to the amount T did pay which was around £2,000). And its
provided underwriting evidence in support of that. Im therefore satisfied that, under the
terms of the Insurance Act, there has been a qualifying breach. And where an insurer has
shown it would have charged a higher premium if the correct information had been provided,
it allows the insurer to settle the claim based on the proportion of premiums that were paid,
compared to those that should have been.
In this case Zurich has applied the average clause in the policy which takes into account
the proportion of the sum insured rather than the proportion of premium paid. Where a term
in the policy puts a policyholder in a worse position than they would have been under the
Act, I would usually go on to consider whether the insurer made that sufficiently clear at the
time it sold the policy.
However, I dont think T has been put in a worse position by Zurich applying the average
clause. T paid 51 % of the premium it should have done for cover under the policy. But
applying average means its received a settlement of around £366,600 against what Zurich
says was a loss of around £447,600. So its been paid around 82% of the value of its claim.
As thats resulted in a better outcome for T, I dont think Zurich acted unfairly in applying
average in this particular case.
T argues Zurich should apply a different approach entirely from either the policy or the
Insurance Act. It says it should request an additional premium from it and then pay the claim
in full. In support of this its relied on the wording of the policy summary and a guide Zurich
produced for customers and brokers on the Insurance Act.
I appreciate the guide Zurich produced does say where there hasnt been a fair presentation
of risk rather than reducing a claim proportionally we have decided instead to charge the
additional premium that we would have charged if we had known the relevant material facts
and pay any claim(s) in full. However, I think its reasonable to say the guide should be read
as a whole and it goes on to explain where our policies contain average or underinsurance
clauses, these will apply independently of our remedies for breach of the duty of fairpresentation of risk.
In any case while I understand this guide was available on Zurichs website I havent seen
anything to show it was provided to T when taking out or renewing this policy. The
information on the brokers website includes the policy summary and policy wording but
doesnt include this guide. So I dont see it can have played a part in its decision to do so.
I appreciate the policy summary which was provided as part of this process says The policy
embraces the principles of the Insurance Act 2015 law reforms. It also incorporates a
modification which has the aim to promote good customer outcomes, whereby in cases of
non-deliberate or non-reckless non-disclosure or misrepresentation we will request any
additional premium which may be required and pay subsequent claims in full rather than
proportionately reducing subsequent claims payments.
I agree that doesnt set out the full position as contained in the policy which says that wont
apply in relation to average clauses and under insurance. And I understand why T thinks that
should have been made clear. Its representatives have also referenced the Supreme Court
judgement in FCA vs Arch Insurance which said the person to whom a policy document
should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who will subject the entire policy
wording to a minute textual analysis.
But that judgement also said for a policy of the type in question (sold principally to SMEs) a
policyholder on entering into a contract is taken to have read through the policy
conscientiously in order to understand what cover they were getting. So the expectation of
the courts is that a policyholder will have read the policy. Its that wording which forms the
basis of the contract between Zurich and T. And I can see that wording was available on the
brokers website.
In any event, even if the policy summary had been clearer, Ive not seen evidence which
persuades me that would have led T to do anything different. In particular it hasnt shown
this was an important factor in its decision to take out this policy. Or that if given clearer
information it would have sourced (and been able to obtain) a policy that operated in the way
it wanted in relation to the payment of additional premium. So I dont think that even if Zurich
had made the position clearer T would have the cover it wanted in place for the claim it
subsequently made. As a result I dont think there are grounds on which I could fairly ask
Zurich to pay the claim on that basis.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich didnt respond to my provisional decision. T did respond. In summary it said:
Zurich hadnt asked about the projected income for the business and Ts declared annual 
income was as accurate as possible at the time it was made and in line with the amount 
recorded in its accounts. And that was within the limits set out in the policy.  
Following the fire T (and associated claim) Zurich offered a renewal quote for around 
£3,538 with a significantly increased business interruption limit. So T questioned whether 
the figure Zurich had quoted for what it would have charged at the earlier renewal was 
correct given that was for a lower sum insured and without any claim having been made. 
So I need to reach a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the information T provided to Zurich was in relation to its declared annual 
income and may have reflected the correct position at that time. Im not aware Zurich did 
specifically ask about projected income. But as this was a commercial policy the duty on T 
wasnt just to answer the question asked but to make a fair presentation of risk. And, as I 
said in my provisional decision, that means a commercial policyholder must disclose 
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in 
deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. 
I continue to feel that if T thought its income was going to increase as significantly as the 
claim it subsequently made indicated, it should have told Zurich so the insured amount under 
the policy could be amended, and a premium charged to reflect that. I think thats supported 
by the renewal documentation T was sent which said remember it is important your sums 
insured are adequate or you may find in the event of a claim you may not receive full 
settlement." 
T has questioned Zurichs position on what it would have done if given the correct 
information. And its provided renewal documentation which does show increased cover for 
business interruption and was after it had claimed on its policy. The premium on that quote is 
for around £3,538. 
But Zurich previously provided underwriting information which showed the amount it would 
have charged if a fair presentation had been made (around £3,890). I agree thats higher 
than the renewal quote offered to T but that quote was based on a declared annual income 
of around £622,000. So it was without an assessment of the actual risk to Zurich of the 
projected increase in that amount. I think thats likely to explain the discrepancy here. 
I remain satisfied that Zurich would have charged more if a fair presentation had been made. 
And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I dont think Zurich acted unfairly 
in applying average in this case given that put T in a better position than it would have been 
if the remedy set out in the Insurance Act had been used. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman