DRN-1743855
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took the PPI policy out in 2000 during a phone call with Santander. It cost 
them just over £23 a month. It gave Mr B 70% of the monthly benefit of just over £380 and 
Mrs B 30% of the monthly benefit for up to 12 months if either of them was off work because 
of sickness or an accident or if they lost their jobs.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent given any information about the terms and conditions of the 
PPI nor the option to decline it. They say they had secure jobs and, in Mrs Bs case, very 
good sick pay. And they say they couldve relied on their families for help if theyd needed it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Santander needed to make it clear Mr and Mrs B they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. It seems Mr and Mrs B werent sold the PPI at the same time as a mortgage 
 Santanders records show Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with them a couple of years 
after the PPI. While I dont know the specific circumstances in which Mr and Mrs B bought 
the cover, it wasnt unusual for PPI to be sold separately from a mortgage, as a standalone 
product. 
The information Santander has given us about the sale shows the PPI was sold over the 
phone. Santander doesnt have a call recording, any example call scripts or any paperwork 
from the time. Since the PPI was sold nearly 20 years ago, I dont think this is unusual or 
surprising.
But because the PPI wasnt sold alongside a mortgage, I think its likely it wouldve been 
clear to Mr and Mrs B it wasnt something they had to have as part of a mortgage and so 
clear also that they had a choice about it  although I know thats not how they now 
remember things. I know Mrs B has also queried the 30/70 benefit split between her and her 
husband. But its clear from documents from both Santander and the insurance underwriter 
that thats how Mr and Mrs Bs policy was set up. Its a slightly unusual benefit split and so it does suggest to me this was something Mr and Mrs B discussed and agreed with Santander 
at the time.
Also from what we know of these sales, I think its likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve filled in a 
separate PPI application form and there wouldve been a direct debit to pay for the cover.
In a situation like this, where I dont have much information, I must decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities. Ive looked at what Mr 
and Mrs B say. But, looking also at the other information Ive got, I dont have enough to be 
able to say fairly and reasonably that its likely Santander added the PPI without their 
consent and without them knowing they had a choice about it. I think its more likely they 
agreed to it, even if (understandably after so long) they no longer remember the details. So 
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint on this point.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint but I dont think there are. Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
B, so it needed to make sure it was right for them. Based on the information Ive got about 
the policy and what Mr and Mrs B have told us of their circumstances at the time, I think it 
was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the cover. And it doesnt seem there were any 
limitations or exclusions in the policy that wouldve made it difficult for them to make 
a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs B say Mrs B got good sick pay from her work, although Mr B only got 
statutory sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their work benefits if 
they were off work because of sickness or an accident. And the PPI wouldve paid 
out for longer than Mrs Bs full sick pay wouldve lasted. It would also have covered 
them in the same way if theyd lost their jobs. And while I appreciate Mr and Mrs B 
say their jobs were secure, job security is rarely guaranteed and insurance is 
designed to protect against the unexpected. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was secured 
on their home, which couldve been at risk if they didnt keep up with their mortgage 
repayments. So I think the PPI gave them useful cover in addition to their work 
benefits.
Although Im sure Mr and Mrs Bs families wouldve helped if they could, this kind of 
support also isnt guaranteed and isnt the same as having an insurance policy to fall 
back on. So I dont think this made the PPI unsuitable for them.
Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford the policy at the 
time.
As well as making sure it was right for them, Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs B 
information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time of the sale. 
I think its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the clear information it shouldve  
for example, about the policys limitations and exclusions. But, as Ive said, I also think its 
likely Mr and Mrs B agreed to the cover and it was right for them. I think clearer information 
would only have confirmed this to them and wouldnt have made them change their decision.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of any problems with the sale so theres 
nothing Santander needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman