DRN-3055539
The complaint
Mr N complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt protected or otherwise prevented him from
losing money to scams.
What happened
The relevant transactions are set out below.
Investment scam
Payment No. Date Amount (£)
1 10/07/2018 1,000.00
2 10/07/2018 1,000.00
3 11/07/2018 8,000.00
4 24/07/2018 25,719.68
5 19/10/2018 2,500.00
6 19/10/2018 2,500.00
7 19/10/2018 2,500.00
8 19/10/2018 2,500.00
9 19/10/2018 2,500.00
10 19/10/2018 2,500.00
Total 50,719.68
Insolvency scam
Payment No. Date Amount (£)
11 13/11/2018 2,500.00
12 13/11/2018 2,399.00
13 13/11/2018 2,500.00
14 13/11/2018 2,500.00
15 16/11/2018 5,600.00
16 18/12/2018 7,489.12
17 28/12/2018 1,000.00
Total 23,988.12
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
Mr N has explained that in 2018 he fell victim to an investment scam. He was persuaded to 
make ten payments in July to October 2018, for what he later realised was an investment 
scam. He was persuaded to make a further seven payments in November and December 
2018 to an insolvency scam  which he thought would help him recover the money he lost to
the investment scam.
Mr N reported the investment scam to Metro on 31 October 2018, and he reported the 
insolvency scam to Metro in December 2018. Metro ultimately didnt recover or otherwise 
refund to Mr N the money he lost to these scams. Mr N was unhappy with how Metro 
handled matters and referred his complaint to us.
An investigator here looked at Mr Ns case and recommended that it be upheld in part  that 
Metro should refund to Mr N the disputed transactions from 11 July 2018 (payment 3) 
onwards (excluding the 28 December 2018 payment) plus interest. 
Metro did not accept the investigators recommendation. Metro offered to pay Mr N a 
goodwill payment of £7,749.50 for the investment scam, and a further £3,744.56 as a 
goodwill payment for the insolvency scam. Mr N didnt accept this offer. We couldnt resolve 
things informally, so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent my provisional decision to Mr N and Metro on 6 August 2021, explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part  to direct Metro to refund to Mr N payments 4 to 15, 
to pay interest on those payments calculated at 8% simple per year, and to pay Mr N a 
further £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr N has responded to say that he agrees with my provisional decision.
Metro has responded to my provisional decision with some further submissions that its 
asked I take into account in reaching my final decision  it says that it agrees to refund 
payments 6 to 15, but it asks that I reconsider payments 4 and 5. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached materially the same conclusions as in my provisional 
decision, and for materially the same reasons. I have explained my reasoning again below, 
with some further comment, where appropriate, to address Metros most recent submissions. 
 
Mr N authorised the scam payments. He was tricked by scammers into instructing Metro to 
make payments from his accounts for an investment scam and later an insolvency scam. 
The scammers tricked Mr N into thinking the investment and insolvency scams were 
legitimate. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr N was the victim 
of sophisticated scams. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under 
the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr N is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware that Metro considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm. 
And Ive thought about Quincecare, and also the recent Philipp judgment Metro has referred 
to in its response to my provisional decision. I am mindful that the courts have interpreted 
Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are different to that case. I am 
also aware of the recent Philipp judgment where the judge took a different view about the 
Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am mindful that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, published on our 
website.
payments 1 to 3
Ive thought about this carefully. And Im not persuaded that Metro should be held 
responsible for Mr Ns loss of payments 1 to 3. I say this because there is a balance to be 
struck. Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests. But they cant be involved in every transaction. And where they 
are involved, I would reasonably expect their level and depth of discussion with the customer 
to depend on the unusualness of the transaction and the risk involved.
The first two payments were for £1,000. Metro did call Mr N about the second payment 
instruction for £1,000 to check he had instructed it. And when Mr N said he had, Metro 
processed the payment. Authorised push payment (APP) scams like this one  by their very 
definition  are instructed by the customer. So I dont think Metros question to Mr N was one 
that could have uncovered the scam without further questioning and discussion. But I am 
satisfied that these first two payments werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for 
Mr Ns account to say that Metro ought reasonably to have intervened further and prevented 
the scam at this stage.
The third payment is a closer call. Strictly speaking this payment wasnt to a new payee. 
Mr N set up the new payee a few days before (and had already, the previous day, made two 
payments to them of £1,000). However, given the rise in fraud and scams in recent years 
and the limited nature of Metros call with Mr N concerning payment 2, I think Metro ought to 
have called and spoken to Mr N about this payment instruction before it processed it. 
However, whilst the parties will see below that I think Metro reasonably ought to have 
prevented the scam from payment 4, this payment 3 was of quite a different nature to 
payment 4. Whilst still being unusual and uncharacteristic  at £8,000  payment 3 wasnt an 
international payment made to a new payee in branch. The scam was on its surface quite 
convincing. And given the lower level and depth of questioning I would reasonably expect 
from Metro with regards to payment 3 compared to payment 4, Im not persuaded Metro 
ought reasonably to have prevented the scam quite yet at payment 3.payment 4
Im not satisfied, however, that Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr N 
with regards to payment 4. This payment instruction for £25,719.68 was instructed in branch 
from Mr Ns freshly-opened current account with Metro  on 23 July 2018, as I understand 
matters, with the payment being debited from Mr Ns account the following day. This was an 
international payment to a new payee and for a very significant amount.
Metro has said that its process requires a branch to satisfy itself that it believes a payment is 
legitimate and that it did discuss Mr Ns payment instruction of £25,719.68 with him in branch 
before it processed it. It has said that it obtained supporting documentation about the 
payment from Mr N, indicating there was a discussion about the payment and that the 
branch was comfortable with the information Mr N gave about it. And that the branch would 
have been comfortable from this information that payment 3 for £8,000 on 11 July 2018 was 
also genuine. In its response to my provisional decision, Metro has also said that there is 
nothing to suggest it didnt warn Mr N about the risks of scams. 
Having reviewed the available information and the documentation Metro obtained from Mr N 
about this payment, however, I am not satisfied this is sufficient to absolve Metro of its 
responsibility here. I havent seen sufficient evidence that Metro warned or appropriately 
warned Mr N of fraud and scams, and in any event I need to be satisfied that Metro spoke 
appropriately to Mr N, to protect him from the possibility of financial harm.
Ive therefore thought about what I think most likely would have happened if Metro had 
spoken appropriately to Mr N about his payment instruction of £25,719.68 in branch, before 
it processed it.
Metro wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective. Im not suggesting Mr N 
should have been subject to an interrogation  merely, in the circumstances, that Metro 
ought reasonably to have asked Mr N what the payment was for and for the basic 
surrounding context, and then to proceed appropriately from there  with the intention to 
disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam.
I think that if this happened, Mr N would have explained to Metro that the payment was for 
an investment with a company I shall in this decision call M  for bonds he had been told 
would achieve a return of 8 to 12%.
I dont know if Mr N would also have told Metro hed first heard about M by being cold-called. 
This is how Mr N has told us he first heard about M. However, in his call with Metro on 
31 October 2018  when Mr N first reported the investment scam to Metro  Mr N told Metro 
he had found M by searching the internet. Weve asked Mr N about this and he says he was 
cold-called, and that what he said about this in his call to Metro may have been caused by 
the stress and overwhelming position he was in having realised hed been scammed. 
In its response to my provisional decision, Metro has said its more likely what Mr N told it on 
31 October 2018 (that he found M by searching the internet) is correct  as it was his 
memory close to the time of occurrence. But, either way, Im not persuaded this makes a 
difference: in any event I think that by this time in 2018  when Mr N instructed this payment 
 Metro was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the rise in fraud and scams 
and sophisticated clone investment scams like the one Mr N fell victim to here.
In its response to my provisional decision Metro has said that having reviewed the 
documentation relating to the investment and this payment, there is nothing to indicate that 
the Metro branch should have second guessed Mr Ns payment instruction. But, as Ive said 
above, I am satisfied that Metro ought reasonably to have asked Mr N what the payment was for and for the basic surrounding context, and then to proceed appropriately from there 
 with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam.
I said above that authorised push payment scams like this one  by their very definition  are 
authorised by the customer. So asking a customer whether they authorised the payment isnt 
sufficient to unearth scams of this nature. Likewise, clone investment scams are designed to 
look legitimate. They often do a very good job at looking legitimate. So the fact an 
investment looks legitimate does not mean it isnt a scam. And Metro would have known, or 
ought reasonably to have known, that just because the documentation Mr N had received 
from M appeared legitimate, this did not mean that M or the investment was legitimate.
The proposed returns of 8 to 12% Mr N had been told about by M were arguably higher than 
a professional bank like Metro might reasonably expect. I understand also that this was 
Mr Ns first investment like this, and Mr N has said he is autistic and has learning difficulties 
and can find it hard to understand some written information. And with the payment 
instruction of £25,719.68, Mr N was proposing to send an undeniably large amount of money 
to this investment. So given what Ive said, I think Metro ought to have warned Mr N about 
scams like this, and to have exercised caution to protect him against the risk of financial 
harm.
Metro has argued in response to my provisional decision that the proposed return on the 
investment would not immediately indicate a scam, and that Mr N didnt advise Metro of his 
vulnerability before bringing his case to us. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont 
think this changes things. 
I am satisfied that a professional bank like Metro would have known, or ought reasonably to 
have known by this stage, that to protect Mr N from the possibility of financial harm from a 
clone investment scam, it would have been advisable for Mr N and/or Metro to look up the 
company on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Register, and to make contact with the 
company through the contact details available there. Mr N and/or Metro could have used the 
company name and the FCA number shown on documentation Mr N had already received 
from M to do this. And by using this method Mr N and/or Metro could have checked that 
Mr N was indeed dealing with a legitimate company, and not a clone investment scam.
I cant be sure about what would then have followed from this  if Metro had given Mr N 
appropriate warnings and advice about this. I therefore have to make my decision based on 
what I think most likely would have happened.
I think Mr N would have taken Metros warnings very seriously. He was proposing to send a 
very large payment which he would, of course, not wish to lose. I also note that in a call I 
have listened to between Mr N and Metro dated 28 July 2018  when Mr N called Metro to 
report possible identity fraud which he was very concerned about  that Mr N was clearly of 
a cautious disposition. I think that had Mr N and/or Metro contacted M on its official details 
the scam would have been uncovered. And I think that  following appropriate warnings and 
intervention from Metro  that Mr N would most likely have decided that the risk of continuing 
the investment with M was too high to accept  I think Mr N ultimately wouldnt have gone 
ahead with this payment of £25,719.68 nor the subsequent payments he made to this 
investment scam.
Metro, in its response to my provisional decision, has pointed towards branch colleagues 
regular banking duties and the scale of customer branch footfall they need to manage. And I 
have  and do  acknowledge that there is a balance to be struck  banks cant reasonably 
be involved in every single transaction. But I have already explained why I am satisfied 
Metro should have been involved in this transaction; and Metro has acknowledged that it 
was involved, and that its own processes require a branch to satisfy itself that it believes a payment is legitimate. I have also explained why I think Metro should have gone further in its 
interaction with Mr N  since it did know, or reasonably ought to have known, about clone 
investment scams, like the one Mr N fell victim to here, and about the steps Mr N could take 
to minimise or eliminate this risk, before it processed his payment instruction. I dont think 
what I have said Metro reasonably ought to have done here would have been onerous or 
inappropriate, to help protect Mr N from the potential of financial harm. 
Metro has indicated that Mr N was not nave or uneducated about fraud and scams  and it 
has referred to his call to Metro on 28 July 2018 about a cold call he had received from a 
phone company. And its said Mr N had the benefit of time to research the legitimacy of the 
investment before he went to branch, and that Metro cannot be expected to safeguard 
customers from their own decision making where an effective payment instruction has been 
given. But Metro was the professional here. And I have already explained why I think Metro 
ought reasonably to have taken the steps I have said. Mr N was tricked by a convincing and 
sophisticated scam, and I have addressed below the extent to which compensation should 
be adjusted to take into account Mr Ns own actions. 
payments 5 to 10
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr N would have gone ahead with 
payments 5 to 10 if Metro had done what it reasonably ought to have done before it 
processed Mr Ns payment 4.
For the sake of completeness, though, payments 5 to 10 were all made on 19 October 2018 
for £2,500 to a new payee. In response to my provisional decision, Metro has said that the 
first of these payments  payment 5  wasnt strange or out of the ordinary for Mr Ns 
account; there is a balance to be struck in the transactions it reasonably can and cant be 
involved with; Mr N didnt report the scam to Metro until 31 October 2018; and payment 5 
was made almost three months after payment 4.  I do understand and appreciate these 
points about payment 5. But given the nature and pattern of these payment instructions all 
on the same day, I would have expected Metro to discuss these instructions with Mr N on 
the day he instructed them. Although these were to a different payee, Im satisfied they were 
part of the same overall scam, and that Mr N understood he was making these further 
payments to the same investment with M. The FCA published a warning about M being 
subject to a clone investment scam on 16 October 2018. But, for the sake of clarity, for the 
reasons Ive explained above when addressing payment 4, I am satisfied that Metro should 
be held responsible for Mr Ns loss of payments 5 to 10 in any event.
payments 11 to 17
Mr N was sadly further scammed in November and December 2018 by a company 
pretending to be an insolvency company that could recoup Mr Ns funds from M if he paid it 
money. Mr N was tricked by the scam insolvency company into making these further seven 
payments  11 to 17  for these purposes.
I have explained that if Metro had done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mr N most 
likely would only have made payments 1 to 3 to M. Its possible that if this had happened  
as I am satisfied it should have if Metro had done what it reasonably ought to have done  
that the scam insolvency company might still have contacted Mr N to try to scam him the 
same way with regards to his first three payments to the investment scam that amounted to 
£10,000. But given Mr Ns loss from M would have been lower in this scenario  £10,000 
compared to £50,719.68  and that he would have been wary following previous appropriate 
discussions with Metro about fraud and scams, I am not persuaded he would have made 
payments to the scam insolvency company at all.I also note that the payments to this scam insolvency company, starting in November 2018, 
were again to a new payee, and for collectively quite large amounts in a short space of time. 
Given that Mr N had already reported the investment scam to Metro, Metro knew that Mr N 
had been vulnerable to scams and it really ought to have realised that these further 
payments instructions warranted checks with Mr N before it processed them.
Mr N obviously wouldnt have wanted to be scammed again or to lose further money. And I 
think if Metro had discussed these payment instructions with Mr N  before it processed 
them starting on 13 November 2018  that Mr N would openly have explained that the 
payments were to a company purporting to be involved in the insolvency of M  and that 
from the information available, including the prior knowledge of M  that Metro ought to have 
given Mr N a stern warning and he would have come to understand that he was almost 
certainly being scammed again and he would not have proceeded with these payments. 
I have considered whether Mr N should bear some responsibility (which might justify a 
reduction in compensation). And I can see that Metro did tell Mr N during a call on 
4 December 2018  before he made payments 16 and 17  that the insolvency company 
might be a scam. Mr N nevertheless went on to make payments 16 and 17. I think Mr N 
realised there was a risk by this point  but proceeded with payments 16 and 17 regardless. 
I also understand that Mr N told Metro over the phone on 18 December 2018 that 
payment 16 was to a friend. I am therefore satisfied that a fair outcome would be for Mr N to 
bear the loss of payments 16 and 17 himself.
Aside from this, however, I do not consider this to be a case where an overall reduction in 
compensation is justified for the customers actions. Instead I think that Mr N was tricked by 
convincing and sophisticated scams. And that the real cause of his loss of payments 4 to 15 
 beyond the actual scams themselves  was Metros failure to do what it reasonably ought 
to have done, as I have explained above. 
recovery of payments 1 to 3
In light of my conclusions above, it is unnecessary in this case to consider whether Metro 
exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen payments 4 to 17 from the 
payee banks.
However, given that I have decided that Mr N would still most likely have gone ahead with 
payments 1 to 3, I have considered whether these payments would have been recovered 
from the beneficiary bank if Metro had done what it reasonably ought to have. I am satisfied 
from the information I have seen, however, that the money Mr N paid to the payee account 
on 10 and 11 July 2018 (payments 1 to 3) had already been removed from the payee 
account by the time he instructed payment 4  and so most likely payments 1 to 3 would not 
have been recoverable.
Putting things right
In the circumstances I am satisfied Metro should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr N for 
the loss he has suffered  payments 4 to 15, totalling £56,218.68  together with interest to 
compensate him for being deprived of the money he lost. Im not persuaded the money, if 
Mr N had not lost it to the scam, would simply have sat in his current account earning the 
prevailing interest rate of that account. So I think our normal interest rate of 8% simple per 
year is appropriate.
I also think it is appropriate to make an award of £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr N has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that Metro could and should 
have provided better customer service, including when Mr N notified it of the scams. But ultimately his loss was caused by the callous acts of scammers, and the payments were 
authorised transactions  although Metro should ultimately have prevented the relevant 
payments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Metro Bank PLC in part  and I 
direct Metro Bank PLC to:
pay Mr N £56,218.68 within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of my final decision; 
and
pay Mr N interest on that amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of 
each respective payment to the date of settlement. If Metro deducts tax from this 
interest, it should provide Mr N with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
pay Mr N a further £400 for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of receiving 
his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter accrue on 
that sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman