DRN-3364105
The complaint
Mr L and Miss M complain that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) has placed an unfair 
valuation on their car, following it being declared a total loss because of accident damage.
What happened
Mr L and Miss M had a motor insurance policy with West Bay. Following the car been 
involved in an accident, West Bay decided to write it off due to the extent of the damage. It 
initially made an offer of £27,000 on the car and after pushback increase this offer to 
£28,800.
Mr L and Miss M were unhappy with this valuation felt it fell well below the market value, 
based on other similar cars they'd seen advertised for sale. West Bay instructed a second 
engineer to assess the value of the car, the second engineer placed a value of £28,110 on 
the car. As this was lower than the previous valuation West Bay said it would honour the 
offer of £28,800.
Mr L and Miss M disagreed that this was a fair offer and chose to bring their complaint to this 
service but accepted an interim payment while waiting for this service to look into things.
Our investigator thought West Bay's valuation was fair and in line with our approach and so 
didn't recommend that Mr L and Miss M's complaint should be upheld. They disagreed; they 
feel a fair settlement would be £35,200. They have also asked if it would be a possibility to 
go back to West Bay and ask it to replace the car for them.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr L and Miss M that I've reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I'll explain.
Mr L and Miss M's policy says it will settle a total loss claim for the market value of the car. 
The policy defines market value as:
the cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, 
age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage 
happened.
My role is not to value Mr L and Miss M's car, but to make sure West Bay has settled their 
claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
Our approach to assessing a fair market value takes into account what the motor trade guide 
says the market value is. The guides are based on extensive research of what's happening 
in the market at the time and we find them to be a good reflection of the true market value of 
the vehicle.
West Bay engineers took into account the trade guides when assessing the value of Mr L 
and Miss M's car. I know they feel strongly about the value of the car, its condition and its 
collectible status. But based on what I've seen these haven't West Bay have considered 
these things when assessing the car's value against the guides.
I can see from the checks carried out by West Bay, at the time, on the trade guides, they 
returned values of: CAP £27,225, Glasss £27,340, Cazana (now known as Cazoo) £28,879. 
And the offer West Bay made of £28,800 was at the higher end of this.
Our investigator also carried out checks on the guides, albeit at a later date, and they 
returned slightly different figures of: CAP £27,250, Glass's £27,340, Cazana (now known as 
Cazoo) £31,080. When one guides significantly differs, we would normally discount it and 
say that if an offer falls within the range of the other two guides then it's fair. But in this case, 
I've considered the average of the three guides, which would be £28,557. This is still lower 
than the offer West Bay have made.
I understand Mr L and Miss M's strength of feeling about this matter, so have conducted 
some research myself. The closest advertised car I could find was a late 2007 model, with 
similar mileage, spec and condition. This car was advertised at £31,900. This price is on a 
car that's more than a year newer than Mr L and Miss M's car and is for sale now, almost 
one year later, in an appreciating market. 
So, given their policy says it will pay the market value immediately before the loss, I think 
that the offer West Bay made to Mr L and Miss M, of £28,800 for their car, is a fair one. And 
I'm satisfied the claim has been settled in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman