DRN-3880542
The complaint
Mr V (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before providing him 
with the facility. 
What happened
Mr V approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in August 2020. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr V was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr V was initially given a facility with a £100 credit limit in August 2020. His limit was 
increased on three occasions, with the final increase taking the credit limit to £290 in 
May 2021.  
The statement of account provided by SNC in September 2022, shows that Mr V had repaid 
the facility by June 2022. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Vs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting this facility showed SNC that Mr V was likely in a position to afford the 
minimum repayment that was due. She also thought it was reasonable for SNC to have 
approved the first credit limit increase in October 2020. 
However, by the February 2021, credit limit increases the adjudicator could see that 
Mr V had six outstanding payday loans and so she thought it was unlikely Mr V could now 
sustainably make repayments towards his facility. Instead, seeing that Mr V was using those 
loans, SNC shouldve offered him forbearance. The complaint was partly upheld. 
Mr Vs representative confirmed it was in agreement with the proposed outcome. 
SNC didnt initially say whether it was (or wasnt) agreeing with the adjudicators 
assessment. It instead, asked for clarification about the adjudicators calculations to show the 
facility would be unsustainable in terms of disposable income. 
The adjudicator responded to SNC with her calculations which she says shows Mr V wasnt 
able to sustainably make his repayments. SNC, asked for a more detailed breakdown  So 
we can review the individual credits and debits and any % of income or expenditure you 
would use or omit.
Therefore, in order to bring this matter to a close, and given the information the adjudicator 
used for her view came from the information supplied by SNC she arranged for the 
complaint to be passed for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
SNC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V could 
repay the facility in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SNC was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay the facility  not just whether the facility was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the facility being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
To start with, Mr V wasnt given a payday loan. Instead, he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown.
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintained read-only access 
to Mr Vs bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to carry 
out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Vs expected repayment would be 5% of the amount owed plus any interest, fees 
or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. Therefore, when 
Mr Vs facility was approved for £100 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr V would be in a 
position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Vs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for around a year preceding the facility being 
granted. SNC then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Vs income and what his 
expenditure was, after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr V could 
afford the minimum repayment towards the facility.
As Mr Vs representative accepted the outcome that was reached by the adjudicator, I no 
longer think SNCs decision to approve the facility is in dispute. Neither do I think the first 
credit limit increase  which occurred in October 2021 is in dispute. As no dispute remains, I 
wont be making a finding about these aspects of the complaint. 
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Mr Vs facility whilst he 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it. The adjudicator suggested this point was in reached in February 2021. During the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. The 
guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in CONC and how it 
applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) states that SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Vs use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
SNC had a good indication of Mr Vs actual financial position, because throughout the time 
of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account. And, I do think, by 
February 2021, SNC had seen enough to have realised that Mr Vs repayment of the facility 
was now unsustainable. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Mr V was 
regularly using other payday lenders in to supplement his living costs. 
The facility was approved in August 2020 and SNC wouldve been aware from the 
transaction data, that Mr V had been regularly using payday loans since the inception of the 
facility. However, from January 2021, Mr Vs use of such credit had increased. 
Since the turn of the year (2021) up to the point that Mr V had his credit limit increased, he 
had had taken at least six payday / high cost instalment loans totalling over £700 from two 
different companies, and in the same period, Mr V also borrowed over £600 from SNC.
So, in a six-week period, Mr V had taken over £1,300 worth of capital borrowing against an 
income of £1,300 per month. Clearly, given the amounts he had borrowed the amounts he 
was expected (and likely) to repay, any further credit limit increase for Mr V wasnt 
sustainable. This alone, is in my view enough to uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
In addition, in both January and February 2021, the same direct debt payment was returned 
as unpaid by Mr Vs bank. This firstly shows that Mr V was having problems managing his 
credit commitments because he wasnt able to fund a payment that he was expected to 
make. But secondly, as CONC 1.3(5) points out consecutively failing to meet payments 
when due can be a sign of financial difficulties. As I think is the case here.  
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Mr V to arrange for him to repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time considering his use of other payday loans and the returned direct debits. 
Instead, SNC didnt do this and increased his credit limit therefore further increasing his 
indebtedness to SNC.  
So SNC shouldnt have lent after 14 February 2021.Putting things right
If a debt remains and if that debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy 
the debt back and then carry out the redress below. If SNC isnt able to or doesnt wish to 
buy the debt back then it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
14 February 2021.
B) Treat all payments Mr V has made towards his account since 14 February 2021 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr V wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr V. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Vs credit file 
from 14 February 2021. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Vs complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman