DRN-1977678
The complaint
Miss W says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
What happened
In 1995, Miss W applied for a Debenhams store card by completing an application form in a 
busy store. PPI was added to her account. She says this was done by the sales person; she 
says she didnt need PPI because she was in good health, in employment, she would get 
sick pay and could also rely on her partner and family to pay the monthly repayments on her 
store card.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Miss W owed on her store card. The 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss W 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Miss W added the policy was not 
suitable for her personal needs and employment status.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France as the insurer should accept responsibility for 
looking at the complaint. So for ease, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint 
her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Miss Ws store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I want my account covered by Payment protection Insurance This box is 
ticked on Miss Ws application; and she could have ticked the box saying No, I do not 
require protection. 
She said this wasnt her tick, so I can reasonably assume the form was most likely 
completed by a member of staff. I noted she declined other offers on the application form 
by leaving them blank - so I think the form was diligently completed and there was 
probably some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as she 
signed the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think 
her signature means AXA France probably made it clear enough the policy was optional 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember 
it in this way.
I can reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements  so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without her 
knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say she would have queried the 
premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Miss 
W knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it.
Miss W said she felt under pressure to buy the policy. But I dont think there is enough 
evidence here on the documents I have seen to show she was pressured to buy the policy. 
So I cannot uphold the complaint on that point.
I dont think AXA France advised Miss W to take out the PPI. I think it was a non-advised 
sale. This means AXA didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had 
to provide her with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to 
take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Miss W received about the policy at the time of the 
sale. But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Miss W was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. Miss W told us she was employed and in good health. She 
says she would have received some sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But 
the policy could have paid out in addition to and for longer than Miss Ws employment 
benefits so the PPI could have proved useful to Miss W if she had an accident, became ill or 
lost her job. So I still think she would have thought this policy was useful to her.
Miss W said she could rely on her partner and family to make her store card repayments. I 
do understand the point she is making. But there was no guarantee she could still rely on 
this help at some unknown point in the future. So I still think she could have found the PPI 
useful.
I dont know if AXA France made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Miss W 
to understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, 
I think if Miss W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have 
thought the policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the 
outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly cost did not seem to be unaffordable. And 
having decided she wanted this type of cover, I dont think that more detailed information 
would have put her off from buying the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Miss Ws submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman