DRN-4188537
The complaint
Mr T complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy after he was involved in a road traffic accident. 
Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr T has comprehensive motor insurance with AXA which began in September 2021. 
Mr T was involved in a road traffic accident in October 2021. He says a third party drove into 
his vehicle and then drove off. As a result the front and right-hand rear of his car were 
damaged as his car was shunted from the front. 
Mr T obtained the third partys details and reported the matter to his insurer. AXA arranged 
for his car to go to a garage to be repaired.
When the repairs were completed the car was returned to Mr T. He says when it was 
returned the car wasnt fit to drive. Mr T contacted AXA who told him he had to use a specific 
garage for the repairs to be covered under the policy. 
Mr Ts car wasnt repaired to his satisfaction, there were a number of issues with the 
accident repairs and he wasnt happy with the work the garage had done. Mr T says the 
garage also caused significant damage to his car whilst they carried out the repairs. And so 
the car was sent back to the same garage to carry out further repair and rectification work. 
Mr T was unhappy with the service he received from AXA. He says there have been a 
number of issues with the accident repairs together with significant delays, which have 
ended up costing him more money. So he complained. 
AXA responded to Mr Ts complaint with six final response letters covering a number of 
complaint points. AXA accepted the service provided to Mr T fell below what it would have 
expected and paid Mr T over £1,000 in compensation. It also arranged for Mr T to have a 
courtesy car for the duration of the repairs.
Whilst the car was economical to repair, in an effort to amicably resolve the complaint, AXA 
were prepared to agree a total loss. Mr T didnt agree. And so a lengthy joint inspection was 
carried out and a number of actions were agreed. 
Following completion of the repairs AXA made an offer on some remaining issues still in 
dispute. AXA offered Mr T a further £1,028.21 broken down as follows; 
£240 for two alloys
£692.35 for the seat cover 
£42.78 for the first-aid kit and warning kit 
£35.08 for the tyre compressor refill 
£18 for the seat base clip 
Mr T didnt accept this offer. He said the offer didnt take into account any of the labour costs 
involved in fitting the parts. AXA explained it wouldnt consider labour costs since the offer 
was made as a gesture of goodwill. It did not accept it had caused the damage to the parts 
mentioned above. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the response from AXA and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said the issues 
raised by Mr T, such as the damage to the alloy wheels, the missing first-aid kit, and the 
damaged passenger seat amongst other things, were not backed up by any independent 
evidence, and so the offer made by AXA in settlement of the claim was fair. The investigator 
suggested that if Mr T had any evidence such as high-resolution photographs of the pre-
accident alloys then he should forward them to AXA for consideration. The investigator said 
he thought AXAs offer of £1028.21 in lieu of repairs was fair and said AXA should pay Mr T 
a further £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said he didnt think AXAs offer took 
into account the labour charges on repairing the car. He also said the investigator had 
overlooked a number of issues with his car that were caused directly by the repairing 
garage. 
Because Mr T didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know Mr T has raised a number of issues in respect of AXAs handling of this claim. I 
havent detailed each one, instead I have focused on what I consider to be the key issues. It 
is also not my intention to minimise the effect the claim has had on Mr T. I recognise the 
impact the matter has had and I empathise with the difficulties he has clearly faced. 
Ive no doubt Mr T has done all he can to try and move the claim along and obtain updates 
from AXA. To be clear I am only considering matters up until 3 March 2023 when the final 
accident-related repair and rectification was completed. Anything that occurred after this 
date falls outside the scope of my investigation. 
Its important to explain that my role here is to look at whether AXA acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of the 
claim. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. AXA accept the claim wasnt dealt with as it should 
have been. There were delays, a lack of communication from the repairing garage, and 
issues with some of the repairs. And in recognition of that it has paid Mr T compensation, 
agreed to carry out further repairs, and provided Mr T with a courtesy car throughout the 
repair process. So it isnt my intention to discuss these issues further here. 
Vehicle repairs
Mr T wasnt happy with the repairs carried out by the repairing garage and has said the 
garage caused further damage to his car. I can see AXA have attempted to resolve these issues for Mr T by arranging an inspection of 
the vehicle and agreeing further repairs. 
Mr T has made various claims that his car has been damaged by the repairing garage and 
has said he has evidence to support his claims. Despite requests for the same I cant see 
that Mr T has provided any evidence to show the garage caused the damage to his car. And 
in the absence of any independent evidence I cant reasonably ask AXA to take any steps to 
rectify the damage. 
Damaged alloys
Mr T says the repairing garage has damaged his alloy wheels. The garage has denied this is 
the case and said any damage to the alloys is pre-existing. AXA asked Mr T to provide it with 
evidence to show the alloys werent damaged before it went in for repair. But I cant see Mr T 
has provided this evidence. And without evidence to show the garage damaged the alloys I 
am unable to compel AXA to take any further action here. 
Balloon payment
Mr T says he had to refinance the agreement on the car since he was unable to return it and 
the balloon payment became due. Mr T says the payment was around £8,000 but the 
refinance has cost an additional £3,000 and a years further payments. 
Mr T hasnt provided any evidence of the balloon payment which was due, or the extension 
of the finance agreement and what that cost him. And so I am unable to ask AXA to take any 
action in respect of this. 
On review of the information provided to me by both parties I think AXA has done enough to 
try and resolve this matter for Mr T. I can see AXA tried to work with Mr T taking into account 
the issues with the repairs and the delays in obtaining parts, to the best of its abilities. 
Particularly where some matters werent covered under the policy.
I recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T, and I understand why he feels 
unfairly treated by AXA. He feels it should ensure all the repairs and replacements to his 
vehicle should be undertaken at no expense to himself. But for me to say AXA should cover 
the cost of the work I need to be satisfied there is a link between the repairs carried out by 
the garage and the subsequent damage to Mr Ts car. And in this situation I dont think thats 
the case. 
AXA has already covered some costs of the claim for Mr T. I think AXA tried to be fair to Mr 
T but it doesnt have a never-ending liability to him or this claim. And so I think it is 
appropriate to now bring the matter to an end and settle things fairly. I am therefore 
upholding Mr Ts complaint but I realise my directions to put things right will disappoint him 
since Im not requiring AXA to meet Mr Ts outstanding claim for repairs to his car.
Putting things right
When thinking about what AXA should do to put things right any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr T back in the position he would have been in had AXA acted fairly in 
the first instance. 
And had AXA settled the claim fairly in the first instance I dont think Mr T would have 
needed to continue to engage with AXA, the repairing garage, and this service in an attempt 
to resolve the matter. Im satisfied this has taken time and effort from Mr T, and I dont doubt it would have been both stressful and upsetting. Our investigator recommended AXA pay Mr 
T £400 to recognise the trouble and upset. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that 
falls in line with our services approach and what I would have directed, had it not already 
been made. So I intend to direct AXA to pay this additional amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons detailed above. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
1. Pay Mr T £1,028.21 as it had originally offered 
2. Pay Mr T £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman