DRN-2907920
The complaint
Mr W complains about problems he had paying a cheque into his Lloyds Bank PLC business 
account. Hes also unhappy with how staff in the branch treated him when this happened.
What happened
Mr W went to a Lloyds branch to pay a cheque in to his business account. He says he asked 
the branch manager whether he was able to pay it in as it was written out to his personal 
name rather than the business name. He says he was told this would be fine. He later 
received a letter saying that Lloyds hadnt been able to pay the cheque in and hed need to 
contact the cheque issuer to request a new one.
Unhappy with this, Mr W visited the branch again to complain. He says the branch manager 
was rude to him and discussed his details in a public area putting his personal information at 
risk.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ws complaint. It said the cheque had been rejected as the name on 
the cheque and the account didnt match. It amended the name of Mr Ws business account 
so this wouldnt occur in the future. It accepted Mr W had been given incorrect information by 
the branch staff, so it offered him £10 to cover the parking and mileage cost hed incurred 
and compensation of £100. Mr W didnt accept this, so Lloyds offered a further £100 for the 
account being set up in the wrong name.
Mr W remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
explained they thought the offer Lloyds had made was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to review and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepts it gave Mr W incorrect information regarding the cheque and that the name of 
the account was incorrectly set up. The cheque has now been reissued and paid in. And the 
name of the account has been amended. So, all thats left for me to decide is whether the 
compensation Lloyds has offered is enough or not.
Its clear this matter has upset Mr W. He says he wasnt happy with the way he was spoken 
to and that personal information was discussed in a public area. Whilst Id normally expect 
Lloyds to discuss things such as this in a private area where possible, Lloyds has explained 
it couldnt due to the meeting rooms being out of use because of the coronavirus pandemic. 
This is unfortunate, but its not the fault of Lloyds.
Id still expect Lloyds to be as discreet as possible. I do understand Mr Ws frustrations. But 
Mr W hasnt said that any particularly sensitive information was revealed to other customers 
which has put him at risk, or that this has caused him any loss. If Mr W is concerned about 
any data protection act breaches, he can contact the Information Commissioners Office in 
this regard.
It mustve also been frustrating to have been told that the cheque would be paid in fine, only 
to find out this was wrong. And to then have to return to the branch to try to rectify it. 
Additionally, Mr W had to contact the cheque issuer to have a new one sent out. Again, this 
mustve been frustrating.
Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake here. However, Im also conscious that it was Mr Ws 
decision to visit the branch again. He couldve called the branch or the central contact team 
to resolve this which wouldve meant less time travelling and not having to discuss the issue 
on the branch floor. 
Overall, Ive thought about the amount Lloyds has paid Mr W. And I think £210 is fair and 
reasonable and is in line with any award I might make in a similar situation for the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
Whilst I understand Mr W feels very strongly about this matter, I dont uphold this complaint 
and make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman