DRN-3901695
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not met its obligations in regard to a transaction 
he made on his credit card to pay for a sailing charter.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr T used his HSBC credit card to part pay for a sailing charter due to take 
place in June 2020. He paid a company I shall call Firm S and the charter was to be 
provided by a charter company Ill call Company SA. The Pandemic took hold and Mr T 
couldnt use the charter and so asked for a refund. Firm S didnt refund him. So he took his 
complaint to HSBC. 
HSBC has considered the matter and hasnt refunded Mr T. So he brought his complaint to 
this service. Mr T has received a Jurisdiction Decision from an Ombudsman colleague 
explaining part of his complaint cannot be reviewed by this service. Mr T has also received 
an assessment by one of our Investigators making findings on the elements of this dispute 
which can be considered. Mr T remains unhappy, so these remaining elements of this 
dispute which can be considered by this service come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My Ombudsman colleague has made clear the issues that this service can consider are 
those when Mr T approached HSBC again sometime after his original approach to HSBC. 
HSBC issued its further response letter in May 2022 and it is the issues covered in this letter 
that this service and indeed this decision will consider. Specifically in regard to the questions 
regarding a second chargeback attempt and any liability HSBC has under Section 75 of 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
I should also make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm S or Company SA. This is 
because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely 
about what HSBC did or didnt do in relation to its obligations and fairness. 
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr T does 
here, HSBC (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process operated 
by the card scheme. The Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when 
Chargebacks can be raised to challenge disputed transactions. Chargebacks arent a right 
for consumers, but rather a dispute process run by the card scheme for disputes between 
merchants and cardholders. This service considers it good practice for card issues to use 
this process where possible. HSBC has confirmed it raised a chargeback originally and 
cannot do so again due to the card scheme rules. Ive considered the rules and it makes 
clear a second chargeback cannot be raised in such circumstances. So I dont think HSBC 
has treated Mr T unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback again when Mr T reverted to it.
how about Section 75 of Consumer Credit Act 1974?
Mr T used his credit card with HSBC for this transaction. This means HSBC also has certain 
responsibilities to Mr T which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). There is no need for me to go into any great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect, if certain preliminary criteria are 
met,  of allowing Mr T to hold HSBC liable for breaches of contract by Firm S, or 
misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. 
It is clear that Mr T is very much of the opinion that Firm S has caused him to lose out. But 
this is a decision about what HSBC did as Ive explained. And before deciding on whether 
there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some requirements set out in the CCA 
which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests is 
around financial limits, and having considered these I think on balance that Mr Ts claim 
meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who must send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who must provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. For HSBC to be held liable 
for what happened here with Mr Ts sailing charter, firstly the DCS relationship has to be 
established.
However it is clear from the HSBC records he paid Firm S, but the supply of the charter was 
by Company SA. So clearly there is a fourth party here and so DCS appears on the face of it 
to not be in place.
However the Act also provides under Section 187 that consumer credit agreement shall be 
treated as entered into under pre-existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if 
it is entered into in accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
And subsection 4 states goes on to explain that persons are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
And Associates are tightly defined in section 184 of the Act. This definition includes a 
number of sub-definitions, of which the most likely to be made out in this case due to what 
we know is the following:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a)if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons 
who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the 
other.
Ive considered this definition and surrounding relevant parts of the legislation and Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that Firm S and Company SA were Associates as under this strict 
definition. Ive considered these firms and they are registered in different countries with 
differing directors/controllers. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that they meet the definition 
of Associates. In fact Ive seen no persuasive evidence of connection between these two 
companies other than the commercial agreement apparent in this case. Nor have I seen 
persuasive evidence that Firm S acted as a payment processor for Company SA. So Im 
satisfied that DCS is not intact here. And accordingly HSBC cannot be held responsible for 
any losses irrespective of whether breach of contract or misrepresentation can be made out.
Mr T has made some arguments of which I shall address those that I see as key for clarity. I 
should add that a number of his arguments hes made since the assessment of the 
Investigator are caught by my colleagues jurisdiction decision so I cannot comment on 
those. I should also add that Mr T hasnt made any persuasive arguments with regard to the 
Investigators assessment with regard to either the chargeback rules or HSBCs liability under 
S75 even though hes had the opportunity to do so.
Mr T points to what Company SA did. However as there isnt the required DCS relationship 
in place here HSBC cannot be held responsible under S75 of the CCA.
Mr T points to what he says was customer service failings much of which falls under the 
scope of my colleagues decision and accordingly those are out of our jurisdiction. And those 
issues within jurisdiction, that happened subsequently havent had a material impact in terms 
of financial loss here because a second chargeback isnt possible, and HSBC cant be liable 
under S75 for the reasons Ive explained.
Accordingly it is my decision there is no persuasive evidence that HSBC has treated Mr T 
unfairly. So this complaint does not succeed.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr T wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position. Mr T is at liberty to not accept this decision and thus not be bound by it. 
However this final decision does bring to an end this services involvement in this dispute 
between Mr T and HSBC on this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. It has nothing further to do in this 
matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman