The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with her loss assessor Aspray Ltd. They helped her with an insurance 
claim but she said the repairs took too long and were poorly done.
What happened
In January 2018 there was a water escape at Miss Js home which caused damage to 
her kitchen, lounge, w/c, hallway walls, floor coverings, floor and skirting boards. Miss J 
made a claim with her insurer, and the drying of her home was started. In April 2018 Miss J 
asked Aspray, a loss assessor, to take over the handling of her claim as she had found it 
stressful. They took over and arranged for the schedule of work to start in June 2018.
Miss J said there were difficulties over the standard of work being done, meetings 
were missed, and communication was poor. In August 2018 Miss J sent a detailed list of the 
work that hadnt been done or had been done to a poor standard. And she told of the stress 
she was feeling. In October 2018 Aspray asked Miss J to sign off the work as being an 
acceptable standard. Miss J said she wasnt completely happy but signed off on the work as 
she wanted an end to it. And she was given assurance by Aspray that the work was 
covered for 12 months, so theyd return if needed.
Within 10 days Miss J noticed another leak and acted on Asprays assurances. Aspray 
attributed the leak to a failed joint seal in the cold-water feed under the kitchen sink. This 
caused further damage to plasterwork behind the leaking pipe, the downstairs cloakroom, 
and a wall in the living room.
Miss J said the workman Aspray chose to complete the work for both claims didnt complete 
the work to a good standard. She said amongst other things there was damage to her 
kitchen appliances, misaligned cupboards and flooring. She also said the workmen failed to 
turn up for meetings, to do the work needed to a good standard and were rude. She found 
the situation extremely stressful as constant supervision was needed to check on what was 
happening at her home. And said she thought her issues during her first claim and been 
solely poor workmanship. But she now realised that Asprays loss assessor hadnt managed 
the claim well.
Miss J complained to Aspray. Miss J said this caused further stress as Aspray were 
dismissive and didnt communicate with her. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered both claims and said that Aspray accepted they hadnt always 
dealt with Miss Js claims as well as they would have liked They said theyd resolved the 
issues, replaced Miss Js dishwasher, offered alternative accommodation, and £300 for the 
trouble and upset that had been caused. But our investigator said Miss J had been left 
DRN-1541875'shocked , exhausted and saddened'. And that Aspray should pay Miss J £2000 for the 
trouble and upset that had been caused to her.
Aspray didnt agree but said a further £200 for trouble and upset and another £200 for the 
upset caused while they looked at Miss Js complaint would be fair  a total of £700. Aspray 
has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clear Miss J experienced poor service and I think this would have been particularly 
frustrating for her as shed instructed Aspray to relieve the stress that a claim naturally 
causes. The water leak happened in January 2018, with Aspray being appointed in April 
2018. So, Miss J had already been dealing with her situation for a couple of months. And I 
think she expected Aspray to take this pressure from her. 
I can understand Miss Js frustration as, after the water leak in January 2018, she had 
several months dealing with her living conditions, poor workmanship, delays and lack of 
communication. And when she signed off the work in October 2018, she would have hoped 
that would have put an end to this period in her life. But only to find herself back in a similar 
position a few days later. 
Aspray said the second leak was caused by wear and tear and not by the poor workmanship 
done previously. Miss J has provided testimony that the leak was in the same area as the 
first leak and is connected. When there is conflicting information, I make my decision on 
what I think more than likely happened. Miss J has made two claims for water leaks and I 
think its understandable that Miss Js issues about the first claim have been carried over 
and intersperse with her second claim. As on repairing the damage caused by the second 
leak, the poor quality of the repairs done for the first claim came to light. And points I think 
that its more likely than not that the repairs done to the same area in the first claim could 
have had an impact on the second leak happening.
Miss J has made a number of points, but I hope she will understand if I focus on what I think 
are the main points. Ive considered Miss Js complaint across the two claims and looked at 
what Aspray should have done, what they did and what has been done to put things right.
Living conditions
Usually when there is damage to a home that makes the property difficult to live in while the 
repairs are carried out, the policyholder will be offered alternative accommodation. Aspray 
didnt take over the work for a couple of months after Miss J made her claim. Aspray said itd 
been Miss Js choice to remain in the property, and Ive not seen any evidence to doubt this 
was the case at the time.
But I think Miss J was given assurance that the repairs wouldnt take as long as they did  
weeks not months. Miss J has also detailed the issues she had with the various workmen in 
her property, including the suspicion of items such as tiles being taken, her concerns about 
the work being done. And the state her property was being left in. And I can see that at times 
she asked for the workmen to be supervised. But I cant see that this happened. The 
evaluation she made in October 2018 says:Contractors should be monitored throughout.I was completely shocked that 2 clearly 
unskilled men were let loose in my house
So, while the repairs were being done, she lived upstairs as the rooms below were not in a fit 
state of repair. This must have been uncomfortable and difficult for her. And while I accept 
that it was Miss Js choice to stay I can understand why she felt she needed to do this.
And Miss J carried these concerns over to the subsequent work that needed to be done after 
she had a second water leak. Miss J did stay at her mothers for a short while in February to 
March 2019 but again returned because she felt the need to monitor what was happening. 
And I can understand Miss J choosing to do this. As I outlined above Miss J asked Aspray to 
manage her claim as she had found this to be stressful. But instead of relieving this stress, 
the way Miss Js claim was handled only added to it. 
Miss J reported the first water leak in January 2018 and it wasnt until May 2019 that the 
work for her second claim was completed. With only a short period of a few days in between 
when Miss J wasnt having work done or having to try to get work redone to an acceptable 
standard. And in the main, Miss J was restricted to living without the full use of her kitchen, 
and in the upstairs of her home.
Drying out of property
Aspray has said that they werent responsible for the drying out of Miss Js property as this 
was done by P. But I can see that Asprays, when they took over Miss Js claim, agreed 
that P would continue with the drying programme and P would offer advice on the 
condition of the kitchen walls. I can see Miss J was told by Asprays loss assessor who 
handled her second claim that the drying process carried out on the first claim, should have 
been monitored and the cracks in the plaster were probably caused by over drying. So, while 
I agree Aspray werent responsible for the actual drying out of Miss Js property. I think they 
were responsible for monitoring the work to make sure it was being done correctly and in a 
timely way. And as Aspray has accepted there is evidence of over drying I dont think they 
did this.
Poor workmanship
Miss J has said across both claims there was evidence of poor workmanship. And Ive seen 
her email in August 2018 that detailed the issues she still had. Aspray did look to get these 
put right. But I can see Miss J showed concern in early October 2018 that there were still 
issues as her fridge wasnt closing properly. But I cant see that Aspray addressed this issue 
at the time, neither did they address it when she complained again in December 2018. 
Miss J did complete an evaluation form in October 2018, but this was only after she was 
given reassurance by Aspray that they would return if needed. And when Miss J had the 
second leak she naturally got in touch with Aspray. But in asking again for their help, she 
immediately expressed her concerns about what would happen and the time it would take. 
And I can see she was given assurance that it wouldnt take as long as the previous claim 
and:
.surprised you asked for Aspray. Id have thought Id have put you off
I think this supports the difficulties Miss J had already experienced. And I think the Asprays 
loss assessors acceptance that they could have done better.
When the repairs started for her second claim the poor repairs from the first clam were 
found. Miss J several times had to bring to Asprays attention to wide-ranging and fundamental issues that showed the poor level of work that was done to her home. This 
included broken dishwasher fittings, shoddy carpentry, appliances not being fitted correctly, 
cupboard fixtures broken causing the cupboards to sink and gaps in sealant. Ive seen the 
pictures Miss J took of the work done by the various workman. And her emails detailing the 
issues she had. But despite Miss J showing this evidence of poor workmanship, and 
damage to her appliances, Aspray challenged her account and only gave her assurances 
about the workman they used and what work theyd done. Im pleased Aspray finally 
accepted Miss Js account and rectified the repairs and replaced her dishwasher. But I think, 
their reluctance to accept what I think was evident only added to what was already a very 
difficult situation for Miss J.
Delays
An escape of water can take some time for a claim to be resolved. When Aspray took over 
the handling of Miss Js claim it was because of the stress shed had in dealing with it. And I 
know it can take time to schedule in the repairs. I can understand the frustration Miss J went 
through, and Im pleased that there has been some acknowledgement of this by Aspray. But 
Miss Js first claim, from when she passed over its management to Aspray took from April 
2018 until October 2018. And even though Miss J identified the second leak after a few 
days, this work took a further eight months from her claim being made to completion. 
I can see that Miss J regularly had to tell Asprays assessors about what was happening at 
her home. And she had to defend her account as she was being told the damage couldnt 
have been caused by the workman when clearly the items had to be moved to carry out the 
repair work. This I think again shows a lack of oversight of the claim by Aspray. And if proper 
oversight had been done, Miss Js claim may have been resolved sooner.
When we look at a complaint and think something has gone wrong, we consider any 
financial impact, Aspray, by handling the insurance claim and by replacing the dishwasher 
have addressed the financial impact of Miss Js claim. But we also look to address any non-
financial loss such as trouble and upset that has been caused. 
Our role isnt to punish a business and the suggested award made by our investigator is 
towards the higher end of what we would look to award. But I think its clear that Miss J was 
left for several months with constant worry, agitation and the inability to relax in her own 
home. And at times felt powerless and threatened in trying to get things done. So, I think 
Aspray should pay Miss J £2,000 for the trouble and upset caused to her. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aspray Ltd to pay Miss J £2,000 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman