DRN-2574058
The complaint
Mrs C is complaining about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of her claim 
under her personal injury policy.
What happened
Mrs C suffers from arthritis which affects her knee. In September 2016 she had surgery on 
her knee which she says completely relieved her symptoms.
In November 2016 Mrs C was involved in a car accident. After the accident she started to 
experience pain from her knee again.
Admiral directed Mrs C to its solicitors to claim for damages from the third party. The 
solicitors arranged for a medical assessment to be carried out in February 2017, following 
which a report was carried out by a consultant in June 2017. Ultimately Admirals solicitors 
decided not to pursue the claim against the third party.
Following the accident Mrs C visited the hospital for treatment on her knee. And in July 2018 
she had another operation on her knee. She contacted Admiral to find out how she could 
claim for her treatment under her personal injury policy, but was incorrectly referred back to 
its solicitors. In September 2018 she contacted Admiral again to say that she should have 
been able to claim for her treatment under her personal injury policy  which shed paid an 
additional premium for - regardless of who was at fault for the accident, and shouldnt have 
been referred back to its solicitors.
Admiral then looked into Mrs Cs claim under her personal injury policy. It paid £400 for a 
hospital visit, and £1,000 for remedial benefit therapy Mrs C had received following the 
accident. But it declined her claim for the surgery benefit. 
Mrs C pursued her complaint with Admiral. She was unhappy it had taken Admiral so long to 
look at her claim under the personal injury policy, and that it had declined her claim for the 
surgery benefit.
Admiral accepted it should have dealt with Mrs Cs claim under her personal injury policy 
much sooner than it did. It concluded that it should have paid her claim in November 2017, 
which allowed for a twelve-month period following the accident to make sure all treatment 
within twelve months had been claimed for. It paid £150 in compensation for this, and it also 
paid her interest of £94.51 on the amount of the claim to reflect its delay in paying. But it 
didnt uphold her complaint about declining her claim for the surgery benefit. It said, in 
summary, that the medical evidence showed Mrs Cs second knee operation was needed 
due to Mrs Cs underlying condition, rather than as a result of the accident.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator thought Admiral hadnt acted 
unreasonably in declining Mrs Cs claim for surgery. He also thought the £150 Admiral had 
paid Mrs C for its delay in processing the rest of her claim was fair. However, he thought 
Admiral should have started to process the claim under the personal injury policy directly 
following the accident in November 2016, so it should pay interest from then rather than from 
November 2017. 
Mrs C remained unhappy with the investigators view of her complaint. She says she should 
be put back in the position she was in before the accident, when her knee wasnt swollen. 
She thinks Admiral should have sought and paid for another medical assessment, rather 
than relied on the medical assessment and consultants report instructed by its solicitors, 
which she disagrees with.
Mrs Cs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Admiral not meeting her 
claim for surgery. Ill explain why.
Mrs Cs policy goes hand in hand with her motor insurance policy and is designed provide 
benefits to an insured person if they suffer a motoring accident which causes an injury (the 
insured event). 
Mrs C says that she should be put back in the position she was in before the accident  
when she didnt have any knee pain. But the sort of policy she has isnt designed to put her 
back in the position she was in before the accident. It simply pays out a fixed amount of 
money if Mrs C meets the policy terms. I should explain that generally its for the policyholder 
to show the accident caused the injury, and that the injury was sufficient to meet the policy 
terms.
The policy defines a bodily injury as any injury to the insured person which is caused by an 
accident and which, within 52 weeks from the date of the accident, solely and independently 
of any other cause, results in death or any of the injuries listed in the benefits table.
Surgery is listed in the benefits table, and is defined as follows:
A surgical procedure or other invasive surgical intervention under general anaesthetic which 
takes place in a hospital. The procedure must be required as a result of the insured event.
I need to decide whether I think Mrs Cs knee surgery meets the definition of surgery under 
the policy. So, in order to decide whether Admiral has fairly declined her claim, I must go on 
to consider whether Mrs C has shown the surgery was required as a result of the insured 
event  the accident.
 
The policy says benefit will only be paid upon receipt of supporting medical evidence. I can 
see that Admiral spoke to Mrs C about obtaining medical evidence to support her claim, and 
Mrs C suggested Admiral refer to the medical assessment and follow-up consultants report 
instructed by Admiral Law. The consultants report was carried out by a consultant 
orthopaedic and trauma surgeon, so I think he was suitably qualified. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to take his report into account in assessing Mrs Cs claim - 
especially in the absence of any other medical evidence from Mrs C.
The consultants report says, in summary, that the accident flared up symptoms which 
caused pain in Mrs Cs knee. It goes on to say the flare up would affect her for twelve 
months after the accident, and whatever symptoms were left after this period would be due to the constitutional symptoms of her existing condition and not due to the accident. But the 
knee surgery Mrs Cs claiming for under her policy took place over eighteen months after the 
accident. 
I understand Mrs C feels the surgery was required as a result of the accident, but shes not 
provided any medical evidence to support this. And the available medical evidence doesnt 
support this position, because the surgery took place outside the period where the 
consultant concluded she would have been affected by the accident. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to conclude that the surgery wasnt a direct result of the accident, 
and to decline Mrs Cs claim.
Medical assessment
Mrs C thinks Admiral should instruct and pay for another medical assessment. Ive looked at 
the relevant term of the policy and I can see that it says:
Benefit will only be paid upon receipt of supporting medical evidence. The costs of obtaining 
this evidence will be paid by us provided they are incurred with our consent. 
Admiral has offered to review the claim if Mrs C can obtain information from the consultant 
who performed her surgery which supports her position that the surgery was required 
because of the accident. But it wont consent to instruct and pay for another medical 
assessment. Like the investigator, I dont think this is unreasonable, because a medical 
assessment has already been carried out by a suitably qualified person. So, I dont think 
Admiral needs to do any more here.
Fair compensation
Admirals already paid £150 to Mrs C for the trouble and upset it caused her by its delay in 
paying her £1,400 for her claim for a hospital visit and her physiotherapy treatment. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and is in line with the level of award wed 
usually make, taking into account the impact of Admirals mistake on Mrs C.
As Ive mentioned, its also paid interest on this amount from 19 November 2017 (when it 
thought the claim should have been paid) to 3 December 2018, when it was paid.
Mrs Cs physiotherapy began at the end of November 2016 and was ongoing at the time of 
her medical assessment in February 2017. And I think its fair to say if Admiral had started to 
process the personal injury claim when it was originally notified about the accident it would 
have paid the claim for physiotherapy and the hospital visit much sooner than November 
2017  although its hard to say exactly when this would have been. 
Overall, like the investigator I think Admiral should pay additional interest on the claim 
amount as if it had been paid in November 2016. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay interest at 8% simple on the total amount of the claim (£1400) between 
19 November 2016 and 3 December 2018, when it was paid.
Admiral has already paid £94.51 in interest to Mrs C. So it should recalculate the total 
amount of interest due and pay Mrs C the remainder.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should recalculate the interest 
on the claim amount and pay Mrs C the remainder, as I have set out above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to withhold income tax from the interest. It should 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much is taken off if Mrs C asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman