DRN-2344836
The complaint
Mr M is represented. He says Clear Capital Markets Ltd (CCM) did as follows:
Recommended and/or allowed him to open a Contracts for Differences (CFD) 
trading account, which he applied for around August 2018 and which was 
inappropriate for him; and that the advised CFD (and Options) trading conducted in 
the account was unsuitable for him because CCM did not properly assess his 
finances, experience and objectives, in the context of suitability.
Did not make clear to him the high risks in leveraged CFD trading and did not make 
clear to him the high charges associated with such trading.
Churned the trading in his account in order to maximise the commission it earned.
What happened
 CCM disputed the complaint and it was referred to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into it and concluded that it should not be upheld. She mainly found as follows:
Evidence of the account application documents completed by Mr M shows that CCM 
applied, to his application, the appropriateness assessment required by the regulator; 
that in the course of that assessment Mr M presented himself as having traded CFDs 
and leverage based instruments regularly in the previous 12 months; that he did the 
same in terms of having prior knowledge about how CFDs and leveraged trading 
works; that though he presently says differently CCM was entitled to rely upon his 
responses at the time of his application; so it cannot be said that CCM acted 
incorrectly by granting him the account.
Risk warnings were given and made available to Mr M in the following ways  a 
prominent risk warning banner was fixed at the top of CCMs website and it included 
information about the leveraged, complex and high risk nature of CFDs, the risk of 
losses going beyond deposits and notice that 70% to 80% of CCMs retail clients lost 
money trading CFDs; and the Risk Warning Notice in the User Agreement he was 
party to, which repeated similar risks as well  as market volatility risks. This serves as 
evidence that CCM gave Mr M notice of the high level of risks associated with 
leveraged trading. A recording of a telephone conversation between both parties at 
the time also shows that a detailed discussion was held with regards to trading risks.
Available evidence from CCM is that it conducted a suitability related review of        
Mr Ms profile in October 2018, that it sent him the outcome of the review with the 
fact find details set out and that, in return, he confirmed the details were accurate. A 
copy has been shared with this service and it shows that Mr Ms objective was capital 
growth and that he referred to his prior investment and trading experience and 
knowledge; and that he had monthly disposable income of £4,000, an investment 
portfolio worth £337,000, capacity for loss based on 10% of the portfolios value (that 
is, £33,700) and a preference to expose half of that capacity to high risk products. 
CCM confirmed that Mr M had a medium risk profile and that he could afford to 
expose up to £14,850 of his capital to high risk investments. Based on the available 
documentation this was a fair outcome to the suitability assessment that was 
conducted. There is no evidence that the trading that followed went beyond the level 
and capacity set by the assessment.
There is evidence of Mr M confirming yes in agreement to the terms of business 
and rates card that was sent to him by CCM on 5 October 2018. He and his 
representative say he was coached to do so, but there is nothing to show he did not 
have the opportunity to read the terms and rate card before responding to the 
relevant email; and he had a second opportunity in this respect when the terms and 
rate card were re-sent to him at the time and before he began to invest in the 
account. The charges set out in the rates card were not misleading and if Mr M did 
not like them he could have sought another account elsewhere.
Available evidence is that Mr M elected to engage in day trades and declined the 
option of setting maximum trade and monetary limits. His trading history shows he 
averaged two trades a day (283 trades in eight months). This was neither unusual for 
CFD trading nor was it excessive in the circumstances. If he was not comfortable 
with the trading frequency he could have set the relevant limits, but he doesnt 
appear to have done so. Based on available information, it cannot be concluded that 
his account was churned.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. His representative said:
CCMs appropriateness assessment was flawed because it failed to look into whether 
(or not) Mr Ms previous trading experience was on an advisory basis; it failed to note 
that the net worth of his previous CFD trading was £2,000, which was significantly 
less than his leveraged exposure with CCM; it did not properly reflect Mr Ms lack of 
qualifications in investments; and that it was based on a tick-box exercise that was 
inadequate for the assessment of appropriateness, instead a more thorough 
assessment process should have been applied.
CCMs risk warning did not provide enough details about the risks inherent in CFD 
trading and their impact; Mr M was not informed about the risks and impact of 
negative dividends until after he incurred them; and he had no previous Options 
trading experience and was not informed of the risks specific to Options trading 
(through CFDs), instead his adviser misinformed him by saying such trading had a 
protective use.
There is no evidence that CCM assessed the suitability of each trade it 
recommended to Mr M; he agrees that he had a medium risk profile but this was 
mismatched by CCMs recommendation of CFDs (including Options CFDs) only, 
instead of a more diverse approach to include, for example, shares; there is evidence 
of Mr Ms adviser making unrealistic promises of trading gains which were not met 
and of him applying the same cycle of a particular unsuitable, poor and unsuccessful 
trading strategy without reasonable reaction to the fact that the same risks and 
negative outcomes were the recurring results; CCM abused Mr Ms capacity for loss 
and treated it as reason to be reckless in its recommendations; and the adviser did 
not properly inform him about the profit and loss (P&L) state of his account despite 
his repeated enquiries.
Evidence of the advisers cycle of reusing the same unsuitable, poor and 
unsuccessful trading strategy supports the allegation of churning; such evidence also 
shows closure of positions under the guise of limiting losses only to subsequently 
open similar positions with similar risks, all of which allowed for the charging of 
multiple commissions; 42% of Mr Ms losses were in the form of commission 
payments; and there is an example of a particular month in which trading averaged 
3.6 per day, which also indicates churning.
CCM responded to the above points as follows:
There were no flaws in its onboarding process (including its assessment of 
appropriateness) as applied to Mr M and the documentation it has disclosed in this respect stands in support; the application form and process for the third party 
provider of the trading platform (and trading account) was thorough and fit for 
purpose; the previous net worth of Mr Ms trading alleged by his representative 
conflicts with his statement that his previous deal sizes were between £25,000 an 
£50,000 as, due to regulatory margin caps an account size of £2,000 could not 
support such deal sizes.
The risk warnings that were made available to Mr M included references to and 
details about risks related to CFDs, Options and dividends.
Evidence has been provided to this service showing that each trade proposal was 
communicated to Mr M by the adviser with reasonings, pros, cons and requests for 
consent, so this defeats his representatives claim that suitability was not assessed 
per trade; the point made about diversification is also defeated by the fact that Mr M 
opened the trading account in order to invest in CFDs exclusively and this is 
supported by the fact that the third party account and platform caters for such 
complex financial products like CFDs, Options and spread betting; no guarantees 
were given with or could reasonably be expected from the advisers  
recommendations and Mr M always retained the right to reject a recommendation 
and to withhold his consent to stop a trade; Mr M had the log-in details for the 
account and had access to check and monitor his P&L position at any time, the 
agreed terms of service also made it his responsibility to monitor his trades; and he 
had direct access to and contact with his adviser.
The points made about churning are defeated by the inherent speculative and short 
term nature of CFD trading, taking place on short term price fluctuations; they are 
also defeated by Mr M specifying a preference for day trading, refusing to set a limit 
for maximum trading and receiving notice at the time that active trading strategies 
can average over 20 suggestions per month.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
Appropriateness is assessed upon information from a client to a firm about whether the client 
has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the service or 
product offered by the firm. This, in summary, is what firms must establish in the course of 
assessing appropriateness for a client and in order to meet the regulators requirement (and 
rules) in this respect. 
Like the investigator, I too have seen and been persuaded by evidence of the information 
provided by Mr M as part of the appropriateness assessment conducted for him. His 
representative highlights that his profession was remote to investments/trading and that he 
had no qualifications in that respect. I am unaware of any regulation that requires a firm to 
establish that a client holds a qualification in or related to investments before it can provide 
that client with investment/trading services. Mr Ms profession was also arguably irrelevant. 
What was relevant was his previous knowledge and experience of trading and of the risks 
associated with trading.
As stated above, Mr M presented himself to CCM as having traded CFDs and leverage 
based instruments regularly in the previous 12 months and as having prior knowledge about 
the workings and risks of CFDs and leveraged trading. The regulators rules about assessing 
appropriateness say a firm is entitled to rely upon information given by a client in the assessment process, unless it has cause to doubt such information. I have not seen 
evidence of anything at the time of Mr Ms application that ought reasonably to have given 
CCM cause to doubt the information he provided. 
CCM reasonably relied upon that information and concluded that the account was 
appropriate for Mr M. In light of available evidence, I do not consider that its conclusion was 
wrong. The tick-box exercise criticised by Mr Ms representative is not uncommon in the 
sector, in terms of the assessment of appropriateness. It is also not uncommon for firms to 
even apply automated assessments in this respect. The substance of the assessment is 
arguably what really matters and in Mr Ms case enough information about his trading 
experience and knowledge was gained through the assessment, so I do not consider that it 
was flawed because of its format. 
I should also note my agreement with the point made by CCM in response to the claim that 
Mr Ms previous trading had a net worth of £2,000. Based on the leverage limits set by the 
European Securities and Markets Authority, as implemented domestically, and on the trade 
sizes Mr M claimed to have used in his previous experience, it is unlikely that such trade 
sizes could have been leveraged upon £2,000 of capital.
Risk Warnings
I endorse the investigators findings in this respect, I incorporate them into this decision and, 
but for addressing Mr Ms representatives points, I do not consider that I can add anything 
meaningful to her findings. In terms of the points made by Mr Ms representative, I consider 
them nullified by the contents of the risk warnings that were given to him. Those warnings 
made it reasonably clear that he was undertaking a high-risk venture, in all relevant respects 
(including, as CCM highlighted, dividends) and in terms of CFD trading  despite the 
advisory basis of CCMs service. This was neither concealed from him nor was it 
misrepresented to him.
It is not uncommon for investors to consider Options as a hedging tool  whilst others use 
them for speculative purposes. As such, I do not accept the argument that the adviser 
sought to mislead  or misled  Mr M by suggesting that the Options CFDs were for 
protective reasons. It is possible that they could have served such a purpose. 
I can understand if Mr M takes a different view after witnessing the outcomes of certain 
trades, but as I repeat further below, nothing in the arrangement between him and CCM 
provided him with guarantees about trading outcomes. The advisers recommendations and 
any hedging or protective purposes he recommended as part of the Options CFD trades 
were part of his considered professional view on the merits (or otherwise) of the trades. They 
were not guaranteed to have the positive hedging or protective outcome that was sought.
Overall and on balance, I consider that Mr M was adequately warned about the risks in 
trading CFDs and Options CFDs.
Suitability
I endorse and incorporate the investigators findings (as summarised above) in this respect 
too.
There is reliable evidence  in the form of email exchanges between Mr M and his adviser  
which shows that he was indeed advised of the suitability of each trade and that his consent, 
following his consideration of the advice, was required and requested by the adviser for each 
trade. The balance of available evidence also shows that CFD trading is what Mr M wanted 
to do, so I have not been persuaded by his representatives argument about diversification. That appears to have been part of his objective and it is arguable that recommendations for 
diversification would have been contrary to such an objective.
I can understand if Mr M and his representative take the view, in hindsight, that the advisers 
thinking, recommendations and strategies for trading at the time were poor. I can also 
understand why they would reach such a conclusion on some of the examples they have 
given. However, they have the benefit of hindsight  which the adviser did not have at the 
time. In addition, it is not necessary for CCM to show that the advice given to Mr M was the 
best advice and it is indeed possible that another adviser could have given better advice. 
The point is that the adviser was obliged to give suitable and reasoned recommendations. 
Available evidence shows, on balance, that he did. I have not seen evidence that his 
recommendations breached his objective, his risk profile (which was undoubtedly qualified 
by his objective to engage in CFD trading) or his capacity for loss. In addition, the 
recommendation emails I have read presented summaries of the trades recommended, 
reasons for their recommendation and separate treatment of pros and cons associated with 
their recommendation. No outcomes were guaranteed, so the quality of the advice cannot 
fairly be judged on the outcomes of the trades alone.
In the wider context of CFD trading evidence (as noted above) shows that he had the 
objective for this, the financial capacity for it, knowledge and experience in favour of it and a 
risk profile that was not in conflict with such trading. I have noted and I agree with CCMs 
point about the access he had to the account, so I do not accept his representatives 
suggestion that the P&L state of the account was in some way beyond his awareness. If that 
was the case, I do not accept that CCM holds responsibility for that. He ought reasonably to 
have monitored his own account. A distinction exists between a discretionary arrangement in 
which an investor might apply less account monitoring because of management discretion 
vested in the firm and an advisory arrangement in which the investor retains responsibility to 
approve investments/trades and to monitor the account. Mr Ms was the latter.
Churning and Charges
A series of transactions that are each suitable when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency that is not in the 
best interests of the client.
The above is the regulators guidance on churning and it focuses on the frequency with 
which a firm carries out transactions for its client and on its clients best interests. Both 
elements are important, so the idea is that frequent transactions for a client ought not to be 
carried out for the purpose of generating commission for the firm, they should be carried out 
in the clients best interests. As I said above, evidence shows that the advisers 
recommendations were set out with reasons and pros and cons. I do not consider that I have 
seen evidence which shows, overall and on balance, that the adviser was engaged in 
making recommendations which were not intended to be in Mr Ms best interests but were 
instead aimed at generating commission for CCM.
For Mr Ms complaint, the above guidance should also be viewed in the context of CFD 
trading. High volume based strategies are not uncommon in such trading. The investigator 
referred to an average of two trades per day in Mr Ms account and, with a slightly different 
analysis, his representative refers to an average example of 3.6 trades per day. In the 
context of CFD trading  and especially as Mr M specified a preference for day trading and 
for trading without maximum trading limits  I do not consider either average to be 
automatically indicative of churning.As the investigator said, Mr M was twice provided the rates card for his account, so he was 
informed about applicable fees and commissions and ought reasonably to have been 
mindful of this in the course of the trading he gave consent to. Alongside my finding that he 
ought to have monitored the P&L state of his account, this would have meant he was 
informed  or should have been informed  about the percentage of his losses made up of 
fees or commission. If he was unhappy with this, he could have stopped the trading at any 
time. I have not seen evidence of an overall approach in which he was reluctantly pressured 
by the adviser into trading. 
Mr Ms arrangement for an active CFD trading account based on trading recommendations 
from CCM essentially defined what was to follow  which was active trading based on a 
succession of recommendations from CCM. Trades were quickly opened, closed and 
followed by other trades  and in some cases trades similar to those that had been closed 
were then opened. The daily average(s) is as noted above. I have been invited to conclude 
that such frequency adds to the conclusion that the account was churned. However, I have 
taken the view that this was arguably an inevitable part of the advisers approach towards 
delivering Mr Ms objective (for CFD trading and capital growth) within the remit of day 
trading. That remit  which Mr M essentially set  cannot reasonably be ignored and the 
same applies to Mr Ms decision not to set a maximum trading limit. Both played a role in the 
frequency of trading in his account and both dilute the argument for churning.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded by available evidence that Mr Ms account was 
churned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman