DRN-3810944
The complaint
Mr S complains that a branch of Lloyds Bank PLC, from which hed pre-booked a large cash 
withdrawal, closed early. This meant Mr S didnt receive the cash when he needed it.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Lloyds.
On 10 May 2022, Mr S visited his local branch to withdraw a large amount of money  
£20,000  in cash. 
When he arrived, to his surprise, Mr S found that the branch was already closed  around 
three hours earlier than it should have been. Hed not received any contact from Lloyds to 
warn him that the branch had closed early.
 
Mr S needed the cash before he flew to Pakistan the following day, he was unhappy that he 
now couldnt access it and that nobody had thought to contact him in advance. So, he 
complained. 
Lloyds sent its final response letter to Mr S on 26 May 2022. In it, the bank said the branch 
had closed due to unforeseen circumstances and  while it was sorry for the inconvenience 
 it wasnt going to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. He said, in summary, that he wanted Lloyds to reimburse him the cost of his air fare 
because the trip to Pakistan had been rendered pointless by its error.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened, and he didnt think Lloyds had done 
enough to put things right. The matter had clearly been inconvenient for Mr S, particularly 
because nobody had thought to contact him and let him know that the branch had needed to 
close early. That said, the investigator didnt agree that Lloyds should reimburse Mr S for his 
air fare.
 
Rather, the investigator felt that other options were available to Mr S if hed really needed to 
use them  such as specialist money transfer services. So, although Lloyds actions were no 
doubt inconvenient to Mr S, the bank hadnt ultimately prevented him from accessing the 
money. 
Overall, the investigator thought Lloyds should compensate Mr S for the poor service hed 
received by paying him £100. 
Lloyds accepted our investigators view, but Mr S didnt. He reiterated how Lloyds actions 
had caused him significant inconvenience and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, 
as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the specifics of Mr Ss complaint, I think its worth explaining some general 
information. 
Im aware that Mr S has wider concerns  aside from what happened here  about Lloyds. 
Ive noted that hed like the bank to receive a suitable punishment for what he sees as 
repeated errors. 
With that in mind, I think it important to explain at the outset that this service isnt here to 
punish businesses for their conduct. Nor is any award we make meant to act like a fine. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Here, we deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. 
Lastly, before addressing the matter at hand, I should say that while Mr S has raised several 
points, Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail. I havent commented on everything 
hes raised, instead, Ive focussed on the key areas of Mr Ss complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this service.
Its unfortunate that the Lloyds branch Mr S had planned to visit closed early. But its true to 
say that, sometimes, unforeseen events can occur and disrupt things.
 
I can certainly understand why Mr S is frustrated and unhappy with Lloyds actions. The 
branch didnt let him know that it had needed to close early, and I think that was an error. 
Mr S wouldve been left with very little time to try and make alternative arrangements by the 
time he realised what had happened. So, I can surely appreciate Mr Ss annoyance at what 
was ultimately a wasted trip.
 
With that in mind, Ive considered the impact of Lloyds actions on Mr S. Having done so, 
while I agree he was certainly inconvenienced, I dont think the bank needs to compensate 
him in the manner hes requested.
 
Thats predominantly because, much like our investigator, I think its reasonable to say that 
there were other viable options available to Mr S. To me, an international money transfer 
would be the most obvious  but I know Mr S has said this was impossible, for various 
reasons, and it was crucial that he could pay in cash.
 
Ive taken that at face value. But I will say that there appears to be some discrepancy over 
just what the cash was going to be used for. Mr S has said it was to pay for medical 
treatment for a relative, but Ive also seen that he told Lloyds it was to be used for business 
purposes.
Either way, while a sole reliance on cash would somewhat diminish his options, I still think 
Mr S had alternatives to access it if that was indeed critical for him. To follow the same 
example our investigator put forward, if Mr S did need to pay in cash, he could have used a 
specialist money transfer service which wouldve allowed him to withdraw cash in Pakistan 
and distribute it as he saw fit. But from the available information I have, it doesnt appear that 
he did so.
 Additionally, although Mr S initially told our investigator that hed cancelled the trip, he later 
said that he had, in fact, travelled to Pakistan as planned. Taking that last statement as 
being correct, Mr S didnt cancel his trip because of Lloyds actions. It seems he didnt 
cancel it at all. Instead, he still made use of the ticket hed bought despite not having the 
cash with him.
 
So, to summarise, Mr S still decided to travel and there were ways in which he could  if he 
wished  obtain cash whilst in Pakistan.
 
I certainly appreciate that might not have been an ideal situation for Mr S. I also accept that 
other options might not be perfect and, fundamentally, wouldnt be what he wanted to do. 
But nonetheless, if it was as crucial for Mr S to have access to cash in Pakistan as hes said, 
Im satisfied that alternatives were available. 
Ive not seen that Mr S chose to use any other option to access cash while abroad, and it 
follows that I havent seen he incurred a financial loss  like currency conversion, transfer or 
administration fees  as a result. So, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to reimburse him for those costs 
given Ive not seen that he incurred any. And it seems that Mr S still decided to travel 
regardless of whether he had the cash or not. On that basis, I dont think I can fairly require 
Lloyds to reimburse him for the cost of his plane ticket either.
I do think, though, that Lloyds should compensate Mr S for the service it provided. Not 
thinking to call him to let him know its branch had closed early was entirely unhelpful.
 
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay Mr S £100, and in the overall circumstances, 
I think thats a fair and reasonable amount to recognise the inconvenience of a wasted trip to 
a closed branch. I think it also reflects the overall concern that Mr S may have had, in 
realising he was unable to access his money in cash on the day as intended. So, thats what 
I require Lloyds to pay Mr S to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I now require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay him 
£100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman