DRN-2195508
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim 
under her home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mrs B is represented by her husband but for the sake of simplicity Ill refer to Mrs B 
throughout.
The circumstances of this claim are well known to the parties involved so I have only 
provided a brief summary here.
Mrs B tells us that in October 2019 there was a leak from her bathroom which caused water 
damage and electrical problems to her kitchen below. Mrs B says RSA advised her she 
could arrange for her own plumber to trace and fix the leak and an electrician to fix the 
wiring. And it would reimburse the costs and consider any damage caused as a result of the 
leak.
Mrs B says the leak was repaired in mid-November and an electrician visited to fix the 
electrics. But he advised her that due to the water damage, and walls not being dry he 
couldnt complete the works and disconnected the cooker, oven and hob. Mrs B says she 
was left without the use of a kitchen and had to move in with family and occasionally stay in 
a hotel.
There was also a claim for water damage to the lounge. RSA declined this claim saying the 
damage was as a result of a gradual breakdown in materials causing the dampproof to fail.
RSA say they agreed to settle part of the claim including £180 trace and access costs from 
the plumber for the bathroom leak which impacted the kitchen, electrical repairs and call out 
costs of £375 and £704.94 for electrical kitchen goods deemed unsafe by Mrs Bs electrical 
contractor as a result of the escape of water.
RSA say that the wet wall in the kitchen, which led to the electrician disconnecting the 
cooker, wasnt as a result of the escape of water from the bathroom above. And therefore 
didnt feel any disturbance allowance should be paid.
RSAs contractors estimated that the repairs to the bathroom and kitchen ceiling would cost 
£1,850.38. Mrs B didnt feel this was sufficient and provided an estimate for kitchen repairs 
in the region of £10,000.
Mrs B was unhappy at delays and poor service from RSA, and with the settlement offered.
 RSA apologised for its service failings, including not meeting call back timescales it had 
given, and for delays in progressing claim following a breakdown in communication between 
its contractors. It offered £350 as compensation.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with RSAs response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator ultimately reached view that the £350 compensation for the delays offered 
by RSA was fair. She felt RSA had fairly declined the claim for damage to the living room, 
and it was reasonable for RSA not to pay a disturbance allowance, or alternative 
accommodation costs. She said RSA should pay what it costs Mrs B to repair the damage to 
the kitchen and bathroom caused by the escape of water, rather than the costs RSA 
contractors would charge.  
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the key points in turn.
Living Room
Ive looked at the reports regarding the water damage to the lounge and Im satisfied that the 
escape of water from the bathroom was not the cause. There is evidence that the damage 
isnt as a result of a specific insure event, and was as a result of a natural breakdown in 
materials, primarily the dampproof course. Im satisfied its reasonable for RSA to rely on the 
technicians reports and I find it fair it declined the claim for this damage.
Kitchen
Ive seen expert evidence that following the repair of the pipe in the bathroom above the 
kitchen ceiling dried out naturally. Whereas the kitchen wall to the outside of the house 
remained wet, even after some months had passed. RSA have shown reports that indicate 
the walls are wet due to a blocked drain and the poor condition of lead flashing on the 
outside of the property. Ive seen that Mrs Bs electrical contractor couldnt safely carry out 
work to the sockets in the kitchen, and had to switch off a number of appliances. But this 
doesnt indicate why the walls were damp. On balance Im more persuaded that the leak in 
the bathroom wasnt the cause of the excessive damp to the kitchen wall. And Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for RSA not to introduce artificial dryers into the kitchen as the moisture 
readings were low at the time of their visit and the cause of the damp wasnt an insured 
event.
It follows that as the lack of cooking facilities in the kitchen wasnt as a result of the escape 
of water from the bathroom then I dont find it fair or reasonable to expect RSA to pay for any 
alternative accommodation, or disturbance allowance. 
Ive also considered what both parties have said about rust damage to the oven, hob and 
cooker hood. Mrs B believes the rust is as a result of the escape of water coming into 
contact with these items. Ive seen a report indicating water was observed on these items. 
RSAs technician has provided further testimony indicating the appliances were not directly 
affected by the escape of water, and had they been so the extent of the rust wouldve been 
greater. He concludes the rust is due to the high humidity levels caused by the issues with 
the external wall resulting in condensation forming on the appliances. On balance Im more 
persuaded by RSAs argument, and dont require it to do anymore with regard to these items.
Settlement amountIm satisfied RSA has made a fair settlement for the electrical and plumbing costs incurred 
by Mrs B, and for the electrical goods that had become unsafe due to the water escape. I 
note the plumbing invoice was for a higher amount but in part related to work undertaken in 
relation to the lounge, the damage to which has been declined.  
Ive looked at the quotation Mrs B provided to RSA for kitchen repairs and it is for a refit of a 
new kitchen rather than to repair the damage caused to the kitchen by the escape of water. 
So its unreasonable to expect RSA to pay this amount as it includes uninsured work. I am 
mindful that the settlement offered by RSA is based on the costs it would incur from its 
contractors, not the cost to Mrs B to have the work carried out. And RSA should pay what it 
costs Mrs B to have the repairs completed. Our investigator said Mrs B should provide a 
detailed breakdown of the costs from her contractors so RSA can establish which costs are 
in relation to the insured event.
I note that RSA say they are not imposing a cash settlement and made its offer so that Mrs B 
could put it towards the costs of the new kitchen if she wished. If Mrs B doesnt provide a 
detailed breakdown then RSA should pay her the £1,850.38 its contractors estimated. 
Compensation
In the circumstances of this case I agree with our investigators view that in wouldnt be fair to 
require RSA to pay further compensation, beyond the £350 already paid. I can understand 
Mrs B has been through a distressing time, but Im persuaded the cause of much of the 
issues with the kitchen and the those of the living room isnt an insured event. 
Your text here
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman