DRN-4130441
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), has acted unfairly 
when increasing the cost of her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G is a longstanding customer of RSA, having insured her vehicle with it for over 30 
years. In 2019 following a non-fault accident, Mrs G made a claim on her policy, but didnt 
think this would increase the premium as she had triple star protection which meant claims 
shouldnt impact the premium. 
Mrs G has engaged regularly with RSA on the price of her policy and complained when this 
increased beyond the level she is happy with. In February 2022, Mrs G made her most 
recent complaint and complained that the increase was being driven by the claim on her 
policy. She doesnt think it is fair if the policy is increasing in price because of this as she 
should be protected from price increases resulting from claims because of her triple star 
protection.
In February 2020, Mrs Gs premium increased at renewal by 20% following her change in 
vehicle. In February 2021, there was a further increase at renewal, this time increasing the 
premium by 55% and it increased again by 33% in 2022. 
Mrs G feels she has been price walked with these price increases. She has referenced the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and recent rule changes it made when banning price 
walking. She thinks RSA has failed to apply the triple star protection and the only plausible 
reason for the increases in the cost of her insurance is because the claim was used as a 
rating factor and this shouldnt have happened.  Mrs G has also said the yearly increase was 
only just within the percentage level that insurers are allowed to increase the price of 
insurance by.
To demonstrate the price has been increased because of the claim, Mrs G has provided 
screen prints of quotes she obtained for new policies with RSA. These all showed she could 
find the insurance for less than the renewal quotes in 2021 and 2022 and she thinks this 
shows RSA was using the claim as a rating factor which was increasing the cost of her 
insurance.
RSA looked at Mrs Gs complaint and said it didnt think it had done anything wrong when 
pricing her policy. It said that claims made on the policy had no impact on the premium, so 
although the claim was still open and ongoing, this wasnt affecting the price. It said it could 
offer a loyalty discount of £31.93, but £612.57 was the best price it could offer for the 
insurance that year.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Gs complaint and said that she didnt think RSA had done 
anything wrong. She was satisfied it hadnt increased the cost of the policy because of the 
outstanding claim and she provided some information about price walking and the FCAs 
recent rule changes in relation to this and general insurance renewal pricing. 
She provided RSA with the quotes Mrs G had provided and it said these had been 
generated after Mrs Gs renewal invite had been sent out. It also said different information 
had been supplied to that of the renewal invite. So this explained the different prices it was 
able to offer at this point as its pricing system changes regularly and will rate on the 
information provided. If things like average mileage or car valuations had changed, it would 
impact the price.
Mrs G didnt accept the outcome and highlighted that shed been told previously by different 
members of RSA staff that the claim and how this was recorded from the outset, would 
impact the premium. But that if there was a difference, this would be refunded back to Mrs G 
once the claim was settled. RSA said it would consider the conversations and information 
provided to Mrs G in these as a new complaint and Mrs G has said she is happy to receive 
an answer on this separately.
Mrs G still didnt think the price increase for 2021 and 2022 had been fairly explained. Her 
2023 renewal had seen her price drop back to a comparative level of the earlier years and 
she feels this is because the claim is now settled. And this demonstrates the claim was 
driving the price increase and the triple star protection wasnt applied as it should have been.
Our investigators opinion didnt change and because of this, Mrs G asked that the complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mrs G will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision.
As our investigator has explained, the role of this service when looking at complaints about 
price is not to tell a business what it should or should not charge. Businesses are entitled to 
decide what they want to charge for providing the service they offer and this includes setting 
the premiums for insurance. But they need to ensure that when doing so, they are treating 
customers fairly and acting inline with the relevant rules and regulations.
Mrs G has regularly questioned the price of her insurance and I understand why, with the 
level of protection she has in place with her triple star protection, that shes been focused on 
the impact of the 2019 claim. 
RSA has provided internal information from its pricing team which confirm the price of 
Mrs Gs insurance was not impacted by the claim as it wasnt something the policy was 
rating on. I know the price of the policy and how this moved over the three subsequent years 
when the claim remained opened and was then settled, has raised questions. But Im 
satisfied from the information provided, that the cause of the increase in 2021 and 2022 was 
not because of the claim, or that RSA was not applying the triple star protection to the policy.
RSA has shared information with this service about the cost of Mrs Gs policy and how this 
was reached. When she changed her vehicle  which was around the time of renewal  in 
2020, there was some issues with the insurance being taken out. It isnt the focus of this 
complaint, but I think it provides some helpful context to help explain why I dont think RSA 
acted unfairly with how it priced Mrs Gs policy in the later years.
In 2020, the price Mrs G paid for her insurance was considerably less than the starting price 
RSA felt it needed to charge to cover the risk of the policy based on the new vehicle and information provided. Mrs G didnt pay this because the agent that set up the policy applied a 
discount to the base price. But Im satisfied this meant Mrs G paid less than RSA felt was the 
right price to make sure it wasnt undervaluing the insurance when the vehicle was changed. 
The renewal in 2022 didnt have the same level of discount applied as 2020 but I dont think 
this means RSA was treating Mrs G unfairly. In January 2022, the FCA introduced new rules 
on insurance pricing which focused on the cost of insurance at renewal. These place an 
expectation on insurers to make sure a renewing customer doesnt pay more than a new 
customer for their insurance, and the price has to be no more than the equivalent new 
business price (ENBP). From the information provided, Im satisfied that when offering the 
renewal in 2022, RSA was acting in line with the FCAs pricing rules and the price it offered 
was no more than the ENBP. Mrs Gs price was not based on the claim in 2019 and how this 
was recorded as RSA wasnt rating on the claim because of the triple star protection. And 
with the price being inline with the ENBP, it was not treating her unfairly or differently to other 
customers. 
I know Mrs G doesnt think this is the case and shes provided screen prints of quotations 
she completed soon after her insurance renewed which show a different price. But it has 
been highlighted by RSA that the information that sat behind these quotations was not like 
for like with the information which sat behind its renewal quote. And the quotations were 
taken out a few months after Mrs Gs renewal invite was generated. 
RSA relies on the information provided to determine the risk it is insuring and, like most 
insurers, it regularly updates its systems and view of risks. This is because pricing 
methodology is updated regularly to allow for changes driven by things like claims inflation 
as insurers look to be as accurate as possible with their assessment of the risk when offering 
the insurance. So even if the information being quoted on was like for like  which I dont 
think it was  a quote requested a month or two after the previous one could result in a very 
different price.   
Overall from the information provided, Im not persuaded that RSA has done anything wrong 
when pricing Mrs Gs motor policy. 
Our investigator explained to Mrs G what price walking is and I agree that Mrs G hasnt been 
price walked. Price walking is the practice of increasing premiums gradually overtime which 
can result in longstanding customers paying more than new customers. The FCAs pricing 
rules have banned this practice with the introduction of the ENBP requirement. Meaning no 
one will pay more than the new business price going forward and Im satisfied RSA has 
applied this to Mrs Gs policy. 
Mrs Gs policy has reduced in price for 2023. It hasnt provided us with a breakdown of the 
price for this year and how it was reached and it isnt the focus of this complaint. But as Ive 
explained, prices can change as businesses learn more about the risks they are insuring and 
react to things like claims inflation. This can result in prices going up as well as down, but it 
doesnt mean the price the previous year was wrong, or that the business was treating the 
customer unfairly. 
RSA has said it will look into the information provided by its staff and what was said to Mrs G 
about the cost of her policy and the impact of how a claim is recorded. This has been 
accepted as being treated as a new issue and Ive not given consideration to this with this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman