DRN-1096089
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in April 2004. 
Ms W says Bank of Scotland (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI alongside her 
mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ms W says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent and she has provided 
some of the documents from the time which shows she was not given any information about 
the policy. But this policy was sold a long time ago, so unfortunately not all the paperwork 
from the time is now available for me to review  specifically the mortgage application 
documents. So, Ive had to consider what both parties have said in order to come to a 
decision on the balance of probabilities  on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
BoS says the PPI wouldve been presented as optional and it wouldve only been added to 
Ms Ws mortgage with her consent. Weve also seen samples of the documentation that 
Ms W is likely to have completed at the time the mortgage and PPI were discussed. These 
samples suggest that Ms W wouldve had a choice about taking out the policy and wouldve 
had to give her explicit consent for the PPI to be added. 
Ive seen the documents Ms W obtained from BoS and the emails she has provided from 
around the time of the sale. It is true that the PPI isnt mentioned in these documents, but 
unfortunately there is no mortgage application available which is the document likely to have 
shown the PPI section and what was entered by Ms W or BoS. So, I dont know what was 
decided at the time or what was completed in that mortgage application form. But without 
any evidence to show Ms W wasnt given a choice about the PPI or didnt consent to it, I 
cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint on this point. And based on the samples Ive 
seen and without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not BoS 
wouldve presented the PPI as optional and Ms W chose to take it out. 
BoS advised Ms W to take out the PPI, which means it wouldve had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of Ms Ws 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and - considering she had limited sick pay and was 
solely responsible for the mortgage repayments - I think she had a need for this cover. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. And for the 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for her, I dont think better information about the policy 
wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman