DRN-3823357
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Bs car was damaged by machinery while in an automated car wash. She made a claim 
for this under her motor insurance policy. RSA arranged for her car to be repaired by one of 
their recommended repairers and told her she would get a courtesy car while the repairs 
were being carried out. Ms B paid the £450 excess due under her policy for the repairs to be 
carried out.
Ms B provided RSA with a letter from the car wash business which explained they would 
cover the replacement of windscreen and cover the excess for this of up to £120. The letter 
states they are doing this on a without prejudice basis.
There was a period of eight days where she was without the use of a car, and one was only 
provided after she had chased RSA on more than one occasion. She was told by RSA the 
car would arrive on a particular day and took time off from work to wait in for it, but it didnt 
arrive and so she had to chase RSA who arranged another delivery day meaning she had to 
stay home from work again.
When the rental car was delivered it had a chip on the windscreen and Ms B was told to 
avoid driving in potholes so it wouldnt be damaged further. She was also told the rental 
company would try to replace the vehicle as soon as it could, but this didnt happen.
Ms B complained to RSA about the delays and problems with the hire car. She said she had 
lost out on earnings for the days she had to stay home to wait for the car to be delivered. As 
the claim wasnt her fault, she also wanted RSA to give refund the £450 excess payment she 
had paid. 
RSA paid Ms B £96 for the eight days loss of use but didnt investigate the rest of her 
complaint in the eight-week timeframe allowed to them in the rules set out by Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So, Ms B brought her complaint to this service as she is entitled to 
under those same rules.
Our investigator partly upheld Ms Bs complaint. In summary she said:
The £96 loss of use payment RSA had already paid to Ms B was fair and in line with 
our approach.
We dont consider loss of earnings but look at things holistically when applying 
compensation. And given the stress and inconvenience caused by the delays and 
problems with the arranging of the courtesy car RSA should pay Ms B £200 in 
compensation.
Whenever a claim is made under an insurance policy the excess has to be paid, this 
can then be recovered from the third party  in this case the car wash. As RSA has 
yet to be able to get an answer from the car wash as to who their insurer is  they 
have yet to recover their costs. Its not for RSA to reimburse Ms Bs excess payment, 
but she can, if she chooses to try to recover them directly from the car wash. 
RSA agreed with the investigators findings. Ms B didnt she feels the car wash have already 
accepted liability in the letter she provided and so she should be entitled to the excess 
payment back.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
The loss of use payment RSA has paid to Ms B equates to £12 per day this is in line with 
what Id expect and so I consider this to be fair.
There is no dispute between the parties that there were delays and problems relating to the 
courtesy car. RSA have agreed to pay Ms B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by her having to rearrange her work schedule and take time off and I believe that to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B had asked for her loss of earnings to be considered, but I havent seen any evidence 
that she lost out financially through this. I say that because although she has provided and 
email from her work to support what she says the email states that she worked from home 
on one of the days and had time of in Lieu, which suggests the time off wasnt unpaid. So, I 
havent considered this point further.
The issue that still seems to be in contention though is the excess payment. I think it might 
be useful here for me to explain how and excess payment works.
When a claim is made the customer pays a pre-agreed amount of the claim  this is the 
excess. In Ms Bs case the agreed amount is £450. This means she has to pay the first £450 
of any claim she makes under the policy regardless of fault. 
An excess is an uninsured loss. This means that in the event of a non-fault claim, the 
insured in this case Ms B has to recover this from the third party or the third-party insurer 
directly. However, its common for an insurer to try to claim it back from the third-party insurer 
on behalf of their customer when they are recovering their own costs  but they dont have to 
do this.RSA has been trying to engage with the car wash to get liability settled either directly or to 
be given information about their insurer. But they are not getting any response. They have 
said that should they get further with the claim they will include the recovery of Ms Bs 
excess with their own costs and refund it to her. However, they arent able to guarantee this 
as they cant be sure they will be able to recover the costs, even if they were to go to court. 
I know Ms B feels the letter the car wash sent to her proves they are liable; however, they 
have said they will pay for the windscreen replacement on a without prejudice basis  this 
isnt the same as admitting liability and means they could still defend it in court if they 
choose.  
Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied that RSA have been trying to engage with the car 
wash to settle the matter and I think what they have said is fair  in that if they are able to get 
to point of recovering costs then they will include Ms Bs excess within that claim. If the car 
wash continually fails to engage with RSA they will need to make a decision on if they are 
going to pursue matters through the courts. If things get to that stage, I expect them to 
consider this in line with the policy terms and taking into account the likely prospect of 
success at court. 
For reasons, Ive already explained Ms Bs excess is an uninsured loss, and as such RSA 
doesnt need to refund it to her.
I understand Ms Bs strength of feeling around this and I know she will be disappointed with 
this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with RSA  
can do for her.
Putting things right
To put things right here RSA should pay Ms B £200 for the distress and inconvenient caused 
to her throughout the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I currently uphold this complaint and I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to carry out the actions as set out under the 
Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman