DRN-1800427
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) hasnt offered 
a fair value for his car following an accident which led to his car being written off.
What happened
Mr W insured his car with Direct Line. In 2019, his car was involved in a total loss accident. 
Direct Line offered £4,370 to settle the claim, less the policy excess. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this so he complained. Direct Line didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained theyd used valuation guides when determining the market value of his car. 
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into matters and thought 
the offer made by Direct Line was fair so he didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that, 
in coming to this view, hed considered four market valuation tools but disregarded two of 
them  the highest and the lowest valuation. This is because the lowest was based on an 
incorrect mileage and it isnt possible to get a new valuation with this particular guide unless 
the loss had happened in the prior three months. The highest valuation was disregarded as it 
was significantly out of line when compared with the remaining two valuations. 
Mr W disagreed. He feels the valuation doesnt allow him to buy a suitable replacement. And 
he also disagrees with our approach to the consider market value. He says that such a wide 
range of results suggests the approach is inaccurate and lacks credibility. In his role as a 
valuer of property, he says hed seek actual comparable evidence and use his judgement to 
adjust and arrive at a correct figure rather than ignore the bottom and top ends of the range. 
Having done this here, he feels the evidence hes given of cars for sale plus the guide which 
gives the highest value supports his case that the valuation is too low. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful at this point to explain that our service doesnt give an exact value of Mr 
Ws car. Instead, we consider if the amount offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Having done so, I have to tell Mr W that I think the investigator has 
reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Where a car has been damaged, Direct Lines terms and conditions say the following.
If your car is damaged, we have the option to: 
opay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves; 
oreplace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; 
or
osettle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer.

We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less 
any excess that may apply).
The policy terms define market value as follows.
the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
This means Direct Line will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
in this matter, theyve determined to be £4,370 less his policy excess. Direct Line referred to 
the trade guides to obtain a value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt 
unusual. We would use a similar approach and the same trade guides to help decide if a 
settlement offer is fair when valuing second hand vehicles. And we find these guides to be 
persuasive evidence of market value, mostly because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
As the investigator has explained, if a guide is significantly out of line, wed consider the two 
guide values closest together to give a good indication of the likely market value. And I agree 
that two of the valuations were correctly excluded for the reasons already given by the 
investigator. 
I can see that our investigator checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, condition, extras and mileage as Mr Ws at the date of its loss. Having 
appropriately excluded the two valuations which were out of line with the others or out dated, 
these checks found that Direct Lines offer was within the range of the valuations provided by 
the guides. So, I dont consider Direct Line has acted unfairly in reaching the value it has.
Mr W says a similar car cant be bought for the sum Direct Line has paid. However, Mr W is 
basing this on cars that are currently for sale. But an asking price isnt always the selling 
price - sometimes the difference can be several hundreds, or even thousands, of pounds. 
And I dont think I could reasonably hold Direct Line responsible if the same make and model 
isnt currently available or if third parties are asking more than the market value. Taking 
everything into account, Im not persuaded that the market value of the car paid by Direct 
Line is wrong. And its the market value thats due under the terms of the policy.
Finally, I note what Mr W has said about the different methods of valuation which are 
available and used by other industries. But, as already explained, the approach our service 
takes to car valuations is to consider whether the offer made by a business is within the 
range of values given by the motor trade guides, excluding any guides which are significantly 
out of line with the others or based on incorrect information. So, this doesnt affect my 
decision in this matter.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Direct Lines settlement offer for the market 
value of Mr Ws car at the time of its loss was fair according to the policys terms and 
conditions and our approach to complaints like this. It follows that I dont require Direct Line 
to increase this. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but this brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with Direct Line  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman