DRN-2568688
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt provide 
it with a loan under the government-backed loan schemes.
Mr A is a director of O and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
O banked with Barclays and approached it in March with a view to taking out a Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan. While that application was ongoing, O also applied to the bank 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
Barclays declined both applications in June. When Mr A complained about the banks 
decision, it said it had to carry out checks prior to lending and that the information it held 
about O hadnt met the government requirements for a loan to be provided.
Mr A remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us. While O had managed to obtain a 
Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, Mr A still wanted to know why Barclays had refused to help  
especially as he thought it had been positive about lending to O initially, and hed only 
applied for a Bounce Back Loan at the banks suggestion.
One of our investigators reviewed Os complaint but didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. In summary, he said:
Os applications had failed checks that Barclays was required to carry out under the 
rules of the government-backed loan schemes. Looking at the information on which 
Barclays had based its decision, he thought it had acted reasonably. 
Although O mightve met the criteria to apply for the loans, it wasnt until further 
checks were completed that Barclays established it wouldnt be able to offer lending. 
So while he understood Mr As frustration, he didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably in how it handled Os applications.
Barclays wasnt obliged to share any more information with Mr A about its decision 
than it already had  but Mr A could contact agencies that might hold relevant 
information, like Experian and CIFAS, if he wished to know more. 
As Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
While loans provided under both the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme and 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a government guarantee, lenders were still 
required to undertake certain checks before approving an application. These included Know 
Your Customer, anti-money laundering and anti-fraud checks. 
Barclays declined Os applications as they failed these checks. Having reviewed the 
information on which the banks decisions was based, I think they were reasonable. I note 
that O has since been able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, but this doesnt render 
Barclays decision wrong or unreasonable. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr A has said about Barclays being optimistic about Os 
applications at the outset. But it wouldve had no reason to think O would be ineligible for a 
loan until it had undertaken the relevant checks. The information it considered in assessing 
Os Bounce Back Loan application led it to decline both requests. It confirmed its decision 
promptly once that assessment was complete. So I dont think Barclays misled O in any way. 
And although ideally the applications would both have been assessed a little quicker, 
Barclays has explained that there were delays due to the volume of requests it was dealing 
with and I dont think the time taken was unreasonable in what were unprecedented 
circumstances.
I appreciate why Mr A would want to know more detail as to the reason behind Barclays 
decision. But Barclays isnt obliged to share this and I cant fairly compel it to do so, 
particularly as information about how lenders reach such decisions is subject to some 
legitimate confidentiality. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in how it handled Os 
loan applications  so Im not requiring it to do anything to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman