DRN-3242198
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited havent agreed to repair 
all the faults found with her car following an accident. Theyve said that some of the 
problems were pre-existing, but Mrs R doesnt agree. Shes also unhappy with how her claim 
has been handled.
What happened
Mrs R has insurance for her car with AA. In April 2021 she was involved in an accident when 
her stationary car was hit from behind by another vehicle at traffic lights. The impact was 
severe enough to split a child seat fitted to one of the cars rear seats. 
Mrs R also has an additional policy with AA which covers vehicle related expenses following 
the occurrence of a non-fault accident. She made a claim on this policy to cover her repairs.
When the accident was reported to the AA, Mrs R told them that since the accident the car 
had been leaking oil. The car was unsafe to drive because of this, so AA arranged for it to be 
collected on 20 April 2021 and taken to a garage for repair. A few days later Mrs R contacted 
the garage and was told it had been inspected and the relevant parts ordered. 
When Mrs R contacted the garage on 8 May 2021 to get an update, she was surprised to 
learn that without advising her, AA had arranged for it to be moved to another garage for a 
Health Check. This was carried out on 7 May 2021 and the technicians report identified six 
problems. Of these Mrs R said three were related to the accident. These were: - 
1. Rear differential pinion oil seal weeping oil.
2. Towing eye cover missing.
3. Start/Stop not working. 
An engineer from the AA emailed Mrs R on 12 May 2021 saying that he didnt agree that 
these issues were accident related. Mrs Rs husband spoke to the engineer and said the 
Stop/Start was working before the accident, the car wasnt leaking oil and the towing eye 
cover was present.
On 19 May 2021 Mrs R called the garage for an update and was told the repairs hadnt been 
authorised. AAs engineer called Mrs R shortly after this to say they wouldnt sanction work 
on the leaking differential, or the stop/start malfunction. Mrs R says that this was despite the 
garage that completed the Health Check telling the AAs engineer that the oil leak probably 
started after the accident. And the car having a full service in November 2021, including a 
rear differential oil change, with no leaks being identified. Following a discussion with Mrs 
Rs husband AA agreed to resolve the stop/start issue, as a gesture of goodwill.
On 21 May 2021 Mr R called AA to speak to the engineers manager and was promised a 
call back. As this didnt happen, he raised a complaint on her behalf. He was again promised 
a call back but didnt receive one.  
The same day Mr R called the garage for an update and was told the car had been moved to 
another garage, for a second opinion. Once again this had been done without Mrs Rs 
knowledge. 
This second health check was carried out on 27 May 2021. This stated that there was a 
slight leak from the rear differential pinion seal, but it looked as if it had been leaking for 
some time. And that the problem with the stop/start was due to battery drain, as the car 
wasnt getting much use.
The first health check was carried out at the dealership that Mrs R bought the car from and 
where she has it serviced. The second health check was carried out at the dealership Mr R 
had bought his car from and had it serviced. 
On 27 May 2021 Mr R spoke to a manager at AA who said he would take the case forward. 
Mr R sent him the relevant details of the claim. The manager contacted him the following day 
to say he was going away on business, and someone else would pick up the case. This 
didnt happen and Mrs R emailed the manager on 10 June 2021 for an update. He replied on 
16 June 2021, saying someone from the complaints department would be in touch. Mrs R 
called AA for an update on 17 June 2021 and was promised a call back. 
She didnt receive the promised call back so called the AA again on 18 June 2021. She 
spoke to the complaints department and provided details of what had happened since the 
accident. When AA called her, they said that as her car had previously been serviced by the 
dealership which carried out the first health check, they felt this undermined their view that 
the oil leak was due to the accident. Mrs R told them that she and her husband also had a 
connection with the dealership where the second health check was carried out, as hed 
bought his last two cars from them and had them serviced there.
On 21 June 2021 Mrs R was advised by the garage that her car was ready for collection. 
She told them she wouldnt be collecting it because of the ongoing dispute about repairing 
the oil leak. 
AA called Mrs R on 22 June 2021 and said they didnt accept her complaint about the oil 
leak, as the second health check said oil had been leaking from the transmission over a 
period of time. They also said that research using on-line forums suggested this was a 
common fault with this make of vehicle. The offer to repair the stop/start was also rescinded 
without any explanation being given. She was told her complaint had been finalised and she 
needed to arrange to collect her car.
Mrs R has told us that she purchased the car in August 2020 with a one-year warranty, so 
any oil leak that was present before the accident, would have been dealt with under the 
warranty. The car has an oil leakage warning indicator which hasnt activated in the time 
shes owned the car. And when the car was last serviced, prior to the accident, there was no 
sign of an oil leak.
 Shes made the following comments about how AA have dealt with her claim: - 
1. She believes that AA have been obstructive in dealing with what should have been a 
simple claim for repairs.
2. The accident caused severe damage to the rear of her car and the third party 
admitted liability.
3. Throughout the claim AA have questioned the validity of experts opinions, sending 
the car to another garage for additional checks.4. Her claim has taken far longer than necessary to progress. And the communication 
from AA has been poor throughout, meaning shes had to chase them regularly for 
updates.
5. Her car was driveable following the accident but wasnt when she was told it was 
ready for collection. And the bodywork was in worse condition than it had been prior 
to repair.
6. Shes been made to feel like the guilty party when she wasnt responsible for the 
accident. And this has been made worse by AA saying shes trying to claim for 
damage that wasnt caused by the accident.
AA didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint as they maintained that the problem with the stop/start 
and the rear differential pinion seal oil leak werent accident related. They said theyd 
considered what was said by the dealership who carried out the first health check about the 
oil leak, but considered the second health check more independent, as that dealership 
hadnt previously serviced her car.
In relation to the stop/start AA said during the first health check the dealership suggested 
that the fault was caused by low battery voltage. Theyd reviewed the list of stored faults the 
dealership had provided, and it confirmed the vehicle had been running on low voltage from 
30,088 miles. And their engineers believed that once the battery was replaced it might 
resolve the stop/start issue. But as the battery issue wasnt related to the accident, they were 
unable to confirm if there were any faults until the battery was replaced.
AA did accept that the service theyd provided wasnt in line with the standards they expect. 
They apologised and issued a payment of £50 to Mrs R for this.
Mr R collected the car on a trailer and took it to another garage. The repairs to the rear 
differential were completed on 14 July 2021. Mrs R paid for this work which cost £1411.48.  
When Mrs R collected the car on 15 July 2021, she noted issues with the paintwork and 
finish on the car, and the exhaust had been cut and a sleeve fitted. These issues all related 
to work carried out by AAs appointed repairers.
She reported these to AA and an independent assessor examined the car on 3 August 2021 
to consider the repairs completed by AAs appointed repairers. The report noted 31 issues 
with the quality of the repairs carried out to Mrs Rs car. Mrs R has told us that AA eventually 
agreed that further work was required which was carried out in October 2021. But the car 
had to go back to the garage again, in early November 2021, as there was a further issue 
with the paintwork.
Mrs R wasnt happy with AAs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and said following the health check carried out on the car on 7 May 
2021, Mrs R believed that three of the issues identified were related to the accident. But AA 
didnt accept that any of the issues were related.
He accepted that on 19 May 2021 AA said theyd resolve the stop/start issue as a gesture of 
goodwill, but they later withdrew this offer. While he acknowledged that Mrs R had her hopes 
raised that this issue would be resolved, he thought it was reasonable for AA to change their 
minds, as the first health check said the battery had been running on low voltage from 
30,088 miles. And a battery fault was unlikely to be related to the accident.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for AA to give more weight to the second health 
check carried out on the car, simply because Mrs Rs car had been serviced by the 
dealership whod carried out the first health check. Particularly as Mrs Rs husband had bought cars from the second dealership and had these serviced by them. 
Mrs Rs car had been serviced at 35,394 miles and there was no evidence of a differential oil 
leak. The car was inspected at 40,002 miles and the garage completing the first health 
check said in their opinion a leak couldnt have occurred that quickly. 
The second health check was carried out 40 days after the accident and the engineer said it 
looked as if oil had been leaking for some time. Our investigator felt this report didnt add 
much as it didnt comment on whether the leak was related to the accident. But on balance 
he was persuaded it was more likely than not, that the leak was caused by the accident.
So our investigator didnt think Mrs Rs claim had been treated fairly by AA. He said AA 
should reimburse her what shed paid to have the oil leak repaired.
Mrs R was without her car for six months and to compensate her for this, and the stress and 
inconvenience shed suffered, our investigator said AA should pay her increased 
compensation of £350. And he agreed that the customer service and level of communication 
Mrs R had received wasnt great. But he said AA had recognised this and he thought the £50 
compensation theyd offered was fair.
Finally, our investigator considered what Mrs R had told us about the child seat that was 
damaged in the accident. Mrs R had told us that she hadnt been reimbursed for the cost of 
replacing it. He accepted that this issue hadnt been raised with AA by Mrs R, but 
recommended AA reimburse the cost of replacing it, as a replacement was covered by her 
policy. 
AA didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said our service didnt have jurisdiction to 
consider Mrs Rs complaint about the child car seat, as this wasnt an issue shed raised with 
them. And it wasnt covered under the after the event policy her claim had been dealt with 
under. So while she could make a claim under her motor insurance policy this would be 
subject to the usual policy excess.
They also said that Mrs Rs car sustained minor rear end damage. And one of their senior 
engineers had confirmed that there was no internal structural damage to the wheels which 
would suggest the impact contributed to the rear differential oil leak. In addition, AA said 
there was a period of three to four weeks between the accident and the first health check, 
and their engineer believed oil had been leaking for longer than this.
Our investigator considered the engineers report and said that he refers to moderate rear 
end damage. But despite the engineer attributing the oil leak to general wear and tear and 
saying this is a known fault with this type of vehicle, he didnt change his opinion. He said he 
found the opinion of the dealership that carried out the first health check, that the oil leak 
was accident related, most persuasive. AA responded saying that their engineers comments 
carried more weight than our investigators opinion.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to deal first with Mrs Rs complaint about the child car seat that was damaged in 
the accident. While our investigator was trying to be helpful to both parties by including this 
issue in his opinion, it wasnt something that had been raised with AA at the time Mrs R made her complaint. As AA didnt agree to the car seat being included as part of this 
complaint, its not something I can consider. Although I am pleased to hear that the issue 
has been resolved and Mrs R has been reimbursed for the car seat.
There appears to be agreement that the issue with the cars stop/start was due to a faulty 
battery. And the issue with the missing towing eye cover appears to have been resolved. So 
the outstanding issue for me to consider is whether the rear differential oil leak was caused 
by the accident. 
The report from the first health check concluded that it was. It was prepared by a dealership 
that had serviced Mrs Rs car. They confirmed there was no sign of an oil leak when the car 
was serviced at around 35,000 miles. The oil was changed at this service and they said 
theyd have been no point in changing it if there was a leak. The car had done 40,002 miles 
at the time of the health check.
Mrs R has told us, and I accept, that the car was covered by a warranty and had there been 
an oil leak shed have had it repaired under this. 
AA commissioned the health check but werent happy with it, as they didnt accept any of the 
issues it identified were accident related. When Mrs R didnt accept this, they commissioned 
a second health check. This said, it looked as if the oil had been leaking for some time. But 
it didnt comment on whether the leak was related to the accident.
AA say they gave more weight to the second health check as the first wasnt independent, 
as the dealership had serviced Mrs Rs car. Mrs R has said that she and her husband have 
also bought vehicles from the second dealership and had them serviced there. 
Im not persuaded that the first health check wasnt independent. It identified issues with the 
car and the engineer provided an opinion on the cause of the oil leak, based on their 
knowledge of the car. I find this more persuasive than a general comment that it looked as if 
oil had been leaking for some time. 
I find the opinion of a dealership that knew Mrs Rs car more persuasive than that of AAs 
engineer, who hadnt examined the car. He says he attributes the oil leak to wear and tear, 
but theres no reference to this in either of the health checks. And I accept that if there had 
been an oil leak prior to the accident Mrs R would have had this dealt with under her 
warranty. AA appear to have tried to underplay the extend of the impact sustained by Mrs 
Rs car, describing it in correspondence as slight. When in the engineers reports its 
described as moderate, or heavy. And Ive noted that it was sufficient to split the child seat in 
the rear of the car.
So I require AA to reimburse Mrs R the £1411.48 paid to repair the oil leak together with 
interest.
I think AA have provided Mrs R with poor customer service throughout her claim. There have 
been delays, she hasnt been kept updated and AA have seemed more concerned about 
proving that certain damage to her car wasnt accident related, than in progressing her claim. 
Remedial work has been carried out to resolve the further problems Mrs R found with the 
cars bodywork when it was returned to her. These issues after the repairs were said to have 
been completed, illustrate the poor level of customer service she received.
AA have acknowledged that Mrs R didnt receive the level of customer service theyd expect 
and offered her £50 compensation for this. While its good that they acknowledged they got 
things wrong, I dont think £50 compensation is enough to compensate her for the very poor 
service she received. While theres always going to be a level of stress and inconvenience after an accident, what 
Mrs R experienced was far more than Id expect in a non-fault accident, where the other 
driver involved has accepted liability. And this is a result of how AA have dealt with her 
claim.
Overall, I think £500 is the appropriate level of compensation for the poor service Mrs R has 
received, and the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of how her claim has 
been handled.
After Id reviewed Mrs Rs case, I asked the investigator to let both parties know that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. Adding interest to the costs of repairs Mrs R had paid and 
increasing the compensation for the poor service shed experienced, and the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered.
Mrs R has indicated that shes happy with this. AA have responded saying that the 
statement of their engineer whos qualified to assess vehicles has more weight than the 
outcome our service has arrived at. 
Theyve repeated that Mrs Rs car only sustained minor rear end damage. Even though this 
statement isnt supported by the evidence in this case. And theyve said that theres no 
evidence that the impact of the accident contributed to the rear differential oil leak, which 
they maintain was caused by wear and tear and is a known fault which these cars.
So they say its unreasonable for them to cover the cost of repairing the leak or interest on 
this amount. And theyve also said they want to see some justification for the increase in 
compensation.
Ive considered what AA have said but havent changed my opinion on this case. My role is 
to consider all the evidence and arrive at an impartial opinion, and not simply to accept what 
one party says because they think its correct. 
Ive considered what Mrs R has told us and all the engineering evidence and on balance Im 
persuaded that the rear differential pinion oil leak was caused by the accident. Ive explained 
above why Ive given more weight to the report from the dealership that carried out the first 
health check and knew Mrs Rs vehicle.
Ive also set out it detail what Mrs R has told us about the customer service she received 
from AA. AA have accepted that they didnt provide her with the level of customer service 
theyd expect. They think £50 is sufficient compensation for the delays and very poor service 
Mrs R experienced. I dont agree and Ive explained why.
So I require AA to pay for the cost of the repairs to the rear differential pinion oil leak in Mrs 
Rs car, together with interest on this amount. And to pay her £500 for the poor customer 
service theyve provided and the distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of 
their handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is the I uphold Mrs Rs complaint about AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited.
And to put things right I require them to do the following: -
Pay Mrs R the £1411.48 she paid for the cost of repairs to her cars rear differential 
pinion oil leak.Pay Mrs R simple interest at 8% on the sum of £1411.48 from 15 July 2021 until 
payment is made to her.
Pay Mrs R £500 compensation for the poor customer service shes received and the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of how her claim has been 
handled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman