DRN-2089647
The complaint
Mr B complains that AutoProtect (MBI) Limited have failed to carry out repairs to his vehicle 
in line with his minor damage insurance policy
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional findings on this complaint, where I said I 
was minded to uphold it for the same reasons as the investigator, but with a slightly different 
settlement. I have provided an extract of my findings sent to AutoProtect:
I note in your final response that you've said you have contacted [the dealership] on 
a number of occasions to ask them to contact [Mr B] directly. However, it seems this 
has no effect, as he has still not been contacted and is still awaiting his repair. 
Therefore, I consider that AutoProtect are currently failing in their obligations to 
indemnify [Mr B] against minor damage as promised by the policy, as he has not had 
his alloy wheel damage repaired. So, I no longer consider it sufficient at this stage for 
AutoProtect to just continue asking the same dealership to contact the customer to 
no avail.
Therefore, in my final decision I will be proposing that Mr B be allowed to arrange his 
own repairs with a garage of his choice, of which AutoProtect will be responsible for 
paying the invoice in line with the policy terms and conditions and up to the maximum 
indemnity limit. Given the level of inaction here, and the fact that a claim was 
originally submitted over ten months ago, I also intend to increase the current level of 
compensation from £100 to £300.
I gave both parties until 14 August 2020 to provide any further comments or evidence in 
relation to my provisional findings.
AutoProtect responded accepting my proposals, but reiterated that it was the dealership that 
had delayed matters here rather than the insurer. No further comments were provided by Mr 
B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that AutoProtect made reasonable attempts to contact the dealership, and that 
the obstruction here has primarily been caused by their lack of response. However, the 
reason for the proposed settlement here is because Mr B has so far been denied the 
indemnity promised under the policy, and should reasonably have been given the option to 
arrange his own repairs sooner given the dealership AutoProtect contacted were not 
responding. 
AutoProtect have agreed to pay the invoice for Mr Bs repair if he sends it to them once the 
repairs have been carried out by a garage of his choice. They have also agreed to pay £300 
compensation. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable settlement in the circumstances.
Putting things right
AutoProtect should pay for the reasonable costs of repair that Mr B is entitled to 
under the policy terms and conditions, at a garage/dealership of his choice. 
AutoProtect should pay the invoice for the repair promptly but no later than within 28 
days of it being sent by Mr B.
AutoProtect should also pay £300 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their handling of this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct AutoProtect (MBI) Limited to 
make an award in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman