DRN-1093902
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr G has travel insurance as part of his package bank account. He lost his passport on 
holiday and got a temporary one. UKI has covered the cost of a temporary passport but 
won't pay for Mr G to get a replacement one now he's returned to the UK. Mr G 
complained but UKI said the policy didn't cover this. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Initially she didn't uphold the complaint.
Mr G provided then provided a copy of his policy summary. Our investigator then upheld the 
complaint because she could see why Mr G expected to be covered. She recommended UKI 
pay Mr G the £75 to replace his passport.
UKI didn't agree this was fair because they said the summary refers policyholders to the full 
terms and conditions which make it clear this isn't covered. So I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy summary contains a table which sets out the key features of the policy and it's 
limitations. Section K refers to Emergency Passport/Driving Licence costs. The sum insured 
has a limit of £500. The exclusions section of the table says UKI will not pay for loss of 
passport or driving licence which are a result of:
"Any costs incurred in replacing the passport or driving licence in the UK
that is in transit outside the control of the insured person (unattended); 
that is left inside a motor vehicle 
that is kept in your locked personal accommodation or safety deposit box where force 
and violence has not been used to gain entry to your locked personal 
accommodation or safety deposit box 
valuables left in your locked personal accommodation where a safe or safety deposit 
box is available and you have not put your items in it and locked it. 
 
Section N of the policy terms sets out the policy term that UKI is relying on to reject the 
claim. It says that they will not pay claims as a result of:
Any costs incurred in replacing the passport or driving licence in the UK. 
 Mr G's point is that a reasonable person reading the policy summary would expect UKI to 
cover the cost of the replacement passport unless one of the four situations outlined in the 
policy summary applied whereas in reality UKI won't cover this cost in any situation.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably. I'm upholding Mr G's complaint 
because: 
Although it's not particularly unusual for insurers to exclude the cost of paying for a 
replacement passport I do think it's a significant limitation that ought to have been 
drawn to Mr G's attention
 
I don't think the policy summary made it clear to Mr G that the cost of replacing his 
passport in the UK wouldn't be covered in any situation. The four bullet points, setting 
out different scenarios, appear directly under the exclusion relating to the loss of the 
passport. So I can understand why Mr G expected to be covered if none of those 
scenarios applied when his passport was lost 
 
The policy summary refers Mr G to Section K for more information. But the 
exclusions relating to lost passports appear under Section N. Section K relates to 
legal costs. UKI hasn't suggested that Mr G is relying on outdated or incorrect 
information contained in the policy summary. And I note that the policy terms and 
summary were issued at around the same time. So even if Mr G had consulted the 
terms and conditions he'd have needed to look at one line of page 39 of the policy 
documents to know he wasn't covered
 
I don't think it's fair and reasonable for UKI to reject Mr G's claim for his replacement 
passport in the circumstances of this case. I think they should pay him £75 for the 
cost of the replacement passport. 
 
Putting things right
 UKI should pay Mr G £75 for the cost of a replacement passport. 
My final decision
 I'm upholding Mr G's complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right in the 
way I've outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman