DRN-2633432
Complaint
Mr P complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) irresponsibly 
provided him with unaffordable loans.
  
Background
Mr P complained about two personal loans which Likely Loans provided to him in February 
2018 and August 2018. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that 
Likely Loans checks before providing loan 1 were proportionate and so it hadnt treated     
Mr P unfairly when providing this loan. But he also thought reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have shown Likely Loans it shouldnt have provided Mr P with loan 2. 
Likely Loans agreed with our investigators assessment on loan 2. In order to put things 
right, it wanted to repay the difference between the interest, fees and charges Mr P paid on 
loan 2 and the interest rebate he received because loan 1 was paid early. It would then add 
interest to any compensation due  at 8% simple a year  and remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of loan 2. 
Our investigator told Likely Loans this wasnt the way his assessment directed it to put things 
right and Mr P wasnt happy with this alternative offer of settlement or that his complaint 
about loan 1 hadnt been upheld either. As the parties couldnt reach a resolution the case 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice and how we 
typically say a lender should put things right in the event we think it shouldnt have provided 
a loan - on our website. Ive referred to this approach when looking at Mr Ps case. 
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Did Likely Loans act fairly and reasonably when providing Mr P with loan 1?
Likely Loans initially provided Mr P with a loan for £3,000.00 in February 2018. This loan had 
an APR of 59.9% and was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £196.58, which 
meant the total amount to be repaid was £4,717.92. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ps 
application after he provided details of his monthly income. It says it combined this with 
information it obtained on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed     
Mr P could comfortably make monthly repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, 
Mr P has said the loan was paid out within hours of his application. So hes not convinced 
that any checks were performed to prove this loan was affordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Likely Loans have said. I want to start by saying 
that while Mr P has referred to the speed of the approval process, it isnt particularly unusual 
for loans to be approved and funds to be provided on the same day as an application. 
Indeed this is pretty commonplace for a variety of different lenders and credit products. So I 
dont agree that the time taken in itself means Likely Loans checks werent proportionate. 
Ive also kept in mind that this was a first loan and the monthly payments wouldnt be taking 
up that much of Mr Ps income. So I think a lighter touch assessment might have been 
reasonable and proportionate as long as the information obtained was consistent and 
plausible. 
Likely Loans credit file enquiries showed Mr Ps debt total at the time of the application was 
reasonable in comparison to his income, there was some historic payday lending but it 
doesnt look like there was anything outstanding (at least in the information Likely Loans 
had) and the other more regular forms of credit he had appeared to be reasonably managed 
and with affordable payments. So the information gathered, at least, did suggest that Mr P 
would be able to make the monthly repayments to loan 1.
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally if Likely Loans 
had carried out further checks  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have 
discovered Mr Ps gambling or his other payday loans and potentially reached a different 
outcome. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what had already been gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr P is suggesting. As 
this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So while Im mindful of what Mr P has said about a different complaint about another lender, 
overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with loan 1.
Is what Likely Loans proposing to do to put things right for loan 2 fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint? 
Both Mr P and Likely Loans are in agreement that Mr P shouldnt have been provided with 
loan 2. So I dont need to look at Likely Loans decision to provide loan 2. I simply need 
decide whether what it has offered to do to put things right for Mr P is fair and reasonable. 
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I think Likely Loans needs to do more to 
put things right for Mr P as a result of having unfairly provided loan 2. Ill explain why I think 
this in a little more detail.It might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it provided a 
loan when it shouldnt have done, wed usually expect it to refund the interest and charges 
added to the loan that shouldnt have been given  in other words anything charged over the 
amount lent. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per 
year. The lender will normally also remove adverse information  recorded on the 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on those loans. 
So, in this case, this would involve Likely Loans refunding all of the interest and charges    
Mr P paid on loan 2. And removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as 
a result of this loan. Likely Loans agrees refunding the interest and charges Mr P paid on 
loan 2 provides a useful starting point. But it doesnt believe that doing this alone puts Mr P 
in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given loan 2 in the first place. It says that as 
everyone agrees it didnt do anything wrong when providing loan 1, it should as it is entitled 
to deduct the amount of the interest rebate Mr P received on this loan as a result of repaying 
it with some of the proceeds of loan 2. 
Its argues that it should be able to recover the full cost of the contract for loan 1, because 
this is what Mr P was contractually obliged to pay and the contract would more likely than 
not have been fully performed had loan 2 not been provided. So any compensation paid now 
for loan 2 should fairly and reasonably reflect this is the position Mr P would be in now if this 
loan had not been provided to him.
Ive thought about Likely Loans argument. However, Im not persuaded by it for a couple of 
reasons. Firstly, I have an overarching concern with Likely Loans proposed methodology 
because irrespective of how the funds to repay loan 1 were obtained, this loan was settled in 
August 2018. And Mr Ps obligations for loan 1, as well as the contract itself, were 
terminated at this stage. I dont think its fair for Likely Loans to now unilaterally invoke terms 
from a contract terminated over approaching three years ago in circumstances where it 
accepts it acted unfairly towards Mr P.  
In any event, leaving aside my overarching concerns regarding Likely Loans methodology, 
the particular circumstances of this case lead me to think that its inappropriate for a 
deduction of the type Likely Loans has proposed to be made here. I say this because the 
circumstances here persuade me it doesnt automatically follow the contract for loan 1 would 
have been fully performed, in the way Likely Loans is suggesting, in the event loan 2 hadnt 
been provided. 
As I understand it Mr P still had 18 payments of £196.58 to make on loan 1 when he was 
provided with loan 2. I accept its possible Mr P would have gone on to make all of these 
payments on time and in accordance with the agreement. But I dont think that I can 
reasonably reach a finding that this would more likely than not have happened bearing in 
mind the facts of this case and the matters the parties are now in agreement on.  
I think its particularly important to keep in mind the reasons why I havent upheld Mr Ps 
complaint about loan 1. Ive not upheld Mr Ps complaint about loan 1 because the checks 
Likely Loans carried out were proportionate and it was entitled to rely on what it gathered 
when deciding to lend. Ive not made a finding that the loan was affordable. 
I think this is an important distinction to make here because looking at Mr Ps bank 
statements, I dont think the loan payments for loan 1 were affordable. Its just the case that I 
dont think that proportionate checks wouldve extended into reviewing Mr Ps bank 
statements. In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that its more likely than not 
Mr P would have fully performed the contract for loan 1 in the event he hadnt been provided 
with loan 2. Its just as if not more likely  bearing in mind the likely difficulty Mr P would have 
making the remaining 18 payments on loan 1  Mr P would have had to stop making 
payments or borrowed elsewhere. As such, Im satisfied that notwithstanding any 
overarching concerns about Likely Loans method in principle, the particular circumstances 
of this complaint mean I dont think the deduction Likely Loans wishes to make from the 
compensation due to Mr P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
As this is the case, I think that Likely Loans should instead put things right in the way that 
Ive set out below.
Fair compensation  what Likely Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having carefully considered everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for Likely Loans to put things right in the following way:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,691.49 
originally lent. Likely Loans should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr P;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, from 
the date they were made by Mr P, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of loan 2.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely 
Loans must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Oakbrook Finance Limited 
should put things right for Mr P in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman