DRN-3739191
The complaint
Mr W complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) recorded a missed payment on his credit file. 
here
What happened
Mr W has had an account with Klarna for some years. Initially he paid the monthly payments 
by card, but later he set up automatic payment which I believe was for £5 a month. This 
operated as expected. But the March 2022 payment which was due on 31st was not made 
and Klarna recorded this on his credit file. Mr W complained to Klarna. 
It investigated and rejected his complaint. It said that the direct debit had been stopped by 
another party on 29 March and it was not responsible for the payment not being made. It 
didnt agree to remove the credit file entry. However, it did say that if Mr W spoke to his bank 
and was able to show it wasnt his fault it may reconsider. 
Mr W was unhappy with this response and he brought a complaint to this service where it 
was considered buy one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted 
the direct debit was stopped and this meant Klarna was unable to collect the payment. He 
had asked both Mr W and Klarna for further information, but nothing provided indicated that 
Klarna had done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree and said the facts supported his claim. He said the Autopay system was 
set up and he had no reason to believe payment had not been made. He also pointed out 
that after this he changed banks and the direct debit was transferred to his new bank without 
issue. He said this indicated the direct debit was functioning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may assist if I set out how Klarna accounts work
When placing a purchase, the customer agrees to pay monthly instalments, called an 
interest saver amount which guarantees the chosen repayment period as well as the chosen 
interest rate. 
Customers can choose to pay manually by connecting their card or by setting up a Direct 
Debit Mandate. At the time of the issue leading to Mr Ws complaint Klarna had an option for 
customers to set up automated payments should they wish to do so, which requires a two-
step process during which the customer enables an online Autopay button after they have 
set up a Direct Debit. This subsequently authorises Klarna to debit the interest saver amount 
stated on their monthly statement on the due date of each month.
Klarna sends customers details of their account each month by email between the 5th and 
the 7th notifying them that their new statement is available and if payment is not made by a 
few days before the due date another one is sent reminding them that payment is soon due. 
In addition to this, SMS reminders are also sent and push notifications are available if 
enabled.
In Mr Ws case his statement email was sent on 5 March and a reminder was issued on 29 
March. Bu the payment was not made. I have reviewed the internal records of Klarna and I 
can see that it shows that: The mandate was cancelled at a bank branch on 29 March. The 
Autopay was still functioning, but without an active direct debit mandate Klarna was unable 
to collect the money due. 
Mr Ws complaint is against Klarna and I can only uphold it if I can identify it has done 
something wrong. I cannot say that I have seen any evidence that Klarna was responsible 
for the cancellation of the direct debit. It may be that Mr Ws old bank does have some 
information which may assist him in identifying the cause, but as things stand I am not 
persuaded that Klarna did anything wrong.
I acknowledge that the Autopay system was still working, but as I have explained above the 
payment regime was two step system and one of those steps was broken for reasons no 
one has been able to establish.
While I appreciate the fact Autopay was working may have given Mr W reason to believe all 
was well, but I can see that Klarna sent him a reminder warning him that the money was due 
which would have allowed him to check.
As for the fact the direct debit was working subsequently this does not show that Klarna 
caused the March failure. It may be that Mr Ws former bank may be able to assist him with 
further information.
I have every sympathy with Mr W, but I cannot safely conclude that Klarna did anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman