DRN-3560152
The complaint
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold a whole of life policy in 1990 by a business for 
which Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) now takes 
responsibility. She says she was led to believe the policy would mature when she reached 
age 60 in 2021 provided she didnt make a claim, but she has since learned is not the case.  
To resolve her complaint, Miss D wants Sun Life to honour the maturity value she had 
expected to receive.  
What happened
Miss D took out her policy following a recommendation in May 1990 from an adviser based 
at Cannon Lincoln, which has since been taken over by Sun Life. It is a unit-linked whole of 
life policy, with an initial premium of £25 and a sum assured of £20,000. The policy included 
additional income protection benefit (IPB) to age 60, originally set at £600 per month.  
In March 2021, Sun Life upheld the complaint. It said it hadnt found any clear evidence in 
Miss D had been told the policy would only run to age 60. Further the terms and conditions 
set out that the policy ran for the whole of the policyholders life, with only IPB ending at 60.  
It said it was correct to state that the policys sum assured was £48,873 but that was the 
current value if a claim was made in the event of Miss D passing away, not the surrender 
value which was less than half that figure (being based on the policys investment value).  
However, Sun Life agreed it had concerns about the suitability of the policy from a savings 
perspective. It felt the IPB, life cover and waiver of premium included in the policy had been 
suitable for Miss D. But, she had no emergency savings or funds on deposit at the time of 
the advice, and the adviser should have recommended she build these up and repaid her 
debts before committing to a risk-based whole of life policy over an indefinite term.  
It therefore proposed two options  either Miss D could keep the policy going but receive a 
refund of the premiums she had paid since June 1990 less the cost of the suitable benefits 
and the policys current surrender value of £21,999.03. Or she could cancel her policy 
altogether and receive a refund of premiums plus 8% interest (and 15% up to April 1993), 
less tax.  
However, Miss D remained unhappy and referred her complaint letter to this service. She 
supplied a letter reiterating her concerns. She said, in summary:
when the adviser had visited her workplace in 1990 she was led to believe that the 
policy would pay out £48,783 at age 60;
so, she was hugely disappointed in 2021 to realise this was not the case;
instead IPB provided by the policy merely ceased at age 60;
the adviser didnt adequately explain the policy to her;
she had no experience of investments or long term insurance products;
if it had been referred to at any time as a whole of life policy, she would have 
questioned that;
when a review was undertaken with a different adviser in 1993, he still did not explain 
how the policy operated despite amending the IPB to £850 per month and increasing 
the premium to £39.05;
the premiums eventually increased to just over £100 per month which she felt was 
excessive;
she is not at all happy with the complaint outcome or offer;
she believes Sun Life ought to pay her £48,783 as at December 2020;
she would like this service to review the offer made as to its fairness.  
An investigator from this service then reviewed the complaint.  
Miss D said she realises now that she was misreading the projection figures in her policy 
documentation, mistaking a sum of £49,359 as a pay out on her 60th birthday. However, she 
remained of the view that the offers Sun Life had made were unfair. She explained that the 
term whole of life was never used initially or fully explained to her. She took it to mean the 
lifetime of the policy from 1990 to 2021. She had wanted a policy to provide a nest egg on 
her retirement, not her death.
Miss D also said the regulatory rules at the time required Cannon Lincolns adviser to explain 
the main features of the policy he was recommending and help her understand the policy. 
He failed to do this as she totally misunderstood the policy, nor did he discuss other options 
that would have given her what she wanted to ensure a good investment return for her 
retirement. So, because of Cannon Lincolns actions, she was now at a financial loss. 
Finally, Miss D said she did not wish to retain the policy for life assurance needs.  
Our investigator then issued a view on the complaint. He felt Sun Lifes offers were both fair 
in the circumstances, given it was accepted that the policy had been mis-sold.  
Miss D said she accepted and appreciated the investigators findings, but she still wanted 
the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She said her financial situation had been 
severely lacking because of what happened and she didnt think Sun Lifes suggestion went 
far enough to rectify that.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be 
upheld, on the basis that Sun Life should pay redress to Miss D for the mis-sale of the policy. 
But, like our investigator before me, my view on the complaint is that the offers made to 
rectify matters are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ds complaint. 
Neither party disputes that the policy was not entirely suitable for Miss Ds recorded 
circumstances in 1990. Ill therefore not go on to address that any further.  
What is in dispute is how matters ought to be put right. Sun Life has given Miss D two 
options  one which keeps the policy in place (because it feels she had a recorded need for 
life, IPB and WOP benefits included within the policy) and the other to treat the policy as if it 
hadnt existed and refund all premiums with interest up to 11 March 2021.  
Miss D does not want to retain her policy and so, wont consider the first option. Ive 
therefore looked at the second proposal for redress. Though I am pleased to note Sun Life has given Miss D choice about putting things right, I believe the second option is appropriate 
in a scenario where a policy ought not to have been recommended in the first place  noting 
Miss D doesnt wish to carry it on anyway.
The parties dispute whether Miss D required the life assurance provided by the policy at all, 
with Miss D contending she did not. However, shortly after taking the policy out (by the time 
of the 1993 review) Miss D was recorded as married. She also had mortgage lending at the 
time of the initial advice. Though the life cover offered by this policy fell short of her 
documented financial liability, it was a prudent step to take in the event Miss D had passed 
away or fallen ill and not been able to work for an extended period (and therefore needed to 
rely on the IPB within the policy).  
I know Miss D feels that Sun Lifes proposal is unfair  but when we uphold complaints at 
this service, we do not use conjecture to establish what a person may have done at a 
previous point in time, Instead, we try to  - as closely as possible - place the person back in 
the position they would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. In this case (other than 
the life and IPB assurance covered in the policy) Miss D would likely have done something 
differently regarding her savings need, given she had no recorded savings at the time of the 
advice. We cant say precisely what that would have been, and so the most appropriate 
compensation is to return her policy premiums as calculated by Sun Life, with interest. 
Putting things right
Sun Life has calculated an appropriate premium refund with interest for Miss D up to 11 
March 2021. However, Miss D has carried on paying premiums while she sought the opinion 
of this service. I dont agree with Sun Lifes view that interest ought to cease as at March 
2021 because its offer to that date was fair. Miss D was entitled to bring the matter here, and 
she still remains deprived of the use of money she would have otherwise utilised elsewhere.   
On that basis, I believe Sun Life should update its redress calculation and pay the total of 
that calculation to Miss D, once she has confirmed with it that she wishes to cancel her 
policy. That calculation is the return of premiums less the cost of suitable benefits, plus 15% 
simple interest to 1 April 1993 and 8% simple interest thereafter to the date of this decision. 
If Sun Life considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Miss D may be able to reclaim the tax 
paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.  
As an aside, Miss D may wish to confirm with Sun Life the surrender value of her policy  
because that value may exceed the total of the above calculation. It would then be a matter 
of her choosing as to whether she surrendered the policy for the stated value or accepted 
the redress calculation above.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited must pay 
Miss D the redress Ive set out above. I make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman