DRN-3351085
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about shares he bought from Templeton Securities Limited (at the time 
an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited). Mr W says the shares
werent suitable for him and Templeton Securities didnt act in his best interests.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2022. I set out the 
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here.
On 7 January 2014, Mr W applied to transfer his existing personal pension to a self 
invested personal pension (SIPP). On 11 April 2014, £25,544.64 was transferred to the 
SIPP.
Ive seen that on 15 May 2014 Mr W signed a form of authority to disclose information to 
an unregulated business with an overseas address.
On the same day he completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement 
and Application Booklet. Under the heading What to expect as a client of Templeton 
Securities it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an 
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client 
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client 
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will 
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which 
will enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore 
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are 
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading Important information regarding your application it said that 
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Mr 
W had provided about his circumstances.
Mr W had to fill out his personal details. In the section headed Important Financial
information the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities, 
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing 
the suitability of our investment management service we provide.
//We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of 
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we 
have received and which I agree to. l/we understand that signing this Application Form will 
constitute an Agreement between us incorporating the Terms and Conditions. In the case 
of any conflict between this Application Form and the Terms and Conditions, I understand 
that this Application Form will prevail.
The personal details recorded that Mr W was 40, married with two dependent children. 
He intended to retire 65 and he hadnt ever worked in financial services. His income was
£27,000 per year with expenditure of £26,000. He was a homeowner with a property 
valued at £140,000 and pension plans totalling £70,000. He had long term liabilities of 
£150,000 and short-term liabilities of £10,000. H[e] ticked both medium and medium/high 
for his preferred level of portfolio risk. His objective was to achieve capital growth over a 
term exceeding seven years. In relation to investment experience, advisory broking was 
ticked. Mr W had less than one year experience investing in equities, fixed interest and 
alternative assets. He had experience of one to five years in investing in funds.
If Mr W required copy information provided by Templeton Securities to be sent his 
financial intermediaries (such as his independent financial adviser) he should add their 
details. Mr W left that section blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things, that Templeton Securities 
reserved the right to decline the application, refuse to accept or choose to defer the 
acceptance of certain assets into the portfolio. It went on to say:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of 
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we 
have received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those term and conditions said.
Mr Ws account with Templeton Securities was opened and on 29 May 2014 £24,467.72 
was switched into it from the SIPP. Templeton Securities sent an introduction letter to Mr W 
on 29 May 2014 which included the following:
We note your interest in high risk products. Investments in smaller companies, in 
particular Penny Shares and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small 
unquoted companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost. 
You may also have difficulty in setting these shares at a reasonable price and in some 
circumstances you may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference 
between the buying and the setting price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may 
get back much less than you paid for them.'
On 4 June 2014, Mr W sent an email to Templeton Securities. After giving his name 
and reference number, Mr W said:
I wish to invest £12,233.50 in Eligere investments pic (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 
55 pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £12,233.50 in Emmit pic (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.95 limit for T1 
settlement.
Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
On 11 September 2014, Templeton Securities Limited wrote to Mr W about his Emmit 
plc shares. The letter said:We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above 
type of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its 
appropriate to invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these Execution Only but wish to advise 
that in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not 
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA [Financial Conduct 
Authority] Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. 
It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money 
from their work pension schemes into SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It 
said some investors were being offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 
30% of the transfer value, paid by a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors 
appeared to have invested 100% of their pension assets into Emmit shares and could 
suffer significant financial loss if theyd done that without fully understanding what they 
were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmit was suspended in October 2014 and the shares were delisted 
in May 2015. Eligere Investments plc shares trading was cancelled in June 2015.
The SIPP provider sent an email to Mr W on 12 November 2014 referring to the regulators 
alert and providing a link to the FCAs website. The SIPP provider emailed Mr W again on 
23 October 2015, referring to its earlier letter and saying that trading of Emmit shares had 
been cancelled from AIM (Alternative Investment Market) as of May 2015 and the 
investment would be valued at zero until further notice. The SIPP provider said its records 
showed Mr W also held an investment in Eligere  the exchange on which those shares 
had traded had been closed and the shares would be valued at zero until further notice.
Mr W, through his representative, complained in October 2018. T S Capital (formerly 
Templeton Securities) sent its final response letter on 12 December 2018. In summary T S 
Capital said that it wasnt responsible for any recommendation that Mr W switch to the 
SIPP. And the share purchases in Emmit and Eligere were arranged on an execution only 
basis and Templeton Securities wasnt required to assess suitability or appropriateness. 
The FCA had issued a warning on its website about Emmit shares and that cash back 
incentives had been offered. T S Capital asked if Mr W had received an incentive and, if so, 
how much and if that was the reason hed decided to transfer. It also referred to the letter 
sent to Mr W on 11 September 2014. Mr W had elected to have an advisory account. 
Templeton Securities could give investment advice. But condition 6.4 of its terms and 
conditions provides that advice on the merits of a particular transaction wont be given if 
Templeton Securities reasonably believed that when the client gave the order for the 
particular transaction he was not expecting such advice and was dealing on an execution 
only basis.
Mr Ws complaint was referred to us. On his complaint form Mr W said that hed been 
advised by an unregulated introducer to transfer his existing personal pension to a SIPP. 
Hed then used Templeton Securities for ongoing investment selection and 
management. But Templeton Securities had invested his pension funds in high risk, 
illiquid, unregulated investments which are now worthless. He had no experience of high 
risk investments and Templeton Securities shouldve realised the investments were 
unsuitable for him. If hed have known he wouldnt have invested. He only has £1,000 
surplus income from his annual earnings after expenditure and he couldnt afford to lose 
his investments. T S Capital had said it had raised concerns about the investments 
(Templeton Securities letter of 11 September 2014) but Mr W hadnt received that letter.Mr Ws representative said, although it looked from the email dated 4 June 2014 as if Mr W 
had chosen the investments, the same email had been sent by other clients. Mr W said he 
was told by Templeton Securities to send the email indicating which investments he 
wanted to be invest in. Mr W had confirmed he was paid £1,000 for investing
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He wasnt persuaded the transactions were 
genuinely execution only, especially as Mr W was a novice investor in relation to equities, 
had applied for an advisory service and hadnt invested on an execution only basis 
previously. The investigator also referred to the email Mr W had sent on 4 June 2014. It 
was in identical terms to emails from other account holders. Such similar instructions 
shouldve raised concerns as to the possibility that customers were being influenced by an 
unregulated introducer, such as the one in respect of which Mr W had signed the form of 
authority. The investigator set out how Mr W should be redressed and taking into account 
the incentive payment of £1,000 which hed received.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including regulated
activities (see Dispute Resolution (DISP) 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article
25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provide
advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
the light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In deciding Mr Ws complaint, Ive asked myself various questions.
Could Templeton Securities accept an execution only instruction from Mr W?
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened with Templeton Securities clearly described it as providing an
advisory service. But the terms and conditions said that Templeton Securities was able to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances. Ive considered whether
Templeton Securities acted correctly by accepting Mr Ws email of 4 June 2014 as an
execution only instruction to purchase shares in Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc.
Ive referred below to what I see as the relevant terms and conditions of Mr Ws agreement
with Templeton Securities.
Clause 3 said:3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations [my emphasis]. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms &
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any
product. We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are
only able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio.
Mr W hadnt been designated as an execution only client. And hed supplied information
about his investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk he was
prepared to accept. But, as Ive highlighted above, clause 3.1 provided for the situation
where, even though information had been given, it might be reasonable for Templeton
Securities to believe that Mr W wasnt expecting advice about the merits of a particular
transaction in a non complex financial instrument. In that scenario Templeton Securities
wouldnt make any recommendations.
Non complex wasnt defined. But I think, taking into account what COBS (Conduct of
Business Sourcebook) 10.4.1R said (as Ive set out below), investments in Emmit and
Eligere shares were non complex financial instruments.
Clause 3.1 was echoed in clause 6, headed, Appropriateness.
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the specific
type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis
of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is not
appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
Applicable Regulation was defined as meaning FCA rules or any other rules of a relevant
regulatory authority or any other rules of a relevant Market and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
I think thats a reference to COBS 10. Ive considered that and in particular COBS 10.4
which is headed Assessing appropriateness: when it need not be done. COBS 10.4.1R (1)
said (at the time):
A firm is not required to ask its client to provide information or assess appropriateness if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and transmission
of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to particular financial instruments 
and is provided at the initiative of the client;
(b) the client has been clearly informed (whether the warning is given in a standardised
format or not) that in the provision of this service the firm is not required to assess the
suitability of the instrument or service provided or offered and that therefore he does not
benefit from the protection of the rules on assessing suitability; and(c) the firm complies with its obligations in relation to conflicts of interest.
The particular financial instruments, referred to in subsection (a), are set out in COBS
10.4.1R (2) and include shares admitted to trading on a regulated market (for example, AIM).
I think (a) is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest there was any conflict of interest as
mentioned in (c). But I dont think (b) was met. Templeton Securities has pointed to its terms
and conditions (see, for example, clause 6.4 mentioned below). But, while a warning in
standardised form was permitted, I think (b) requires a warning to be given at the time of the
particular service. It says, in the provision of this [my emphasis] service. That means a
specific warning (albeit that in might be in a standardised format) has to be given at the time.
And thats consistent with Templeton Securities own terms and conditions  see clause 6.4
which says:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction
if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not
expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction
relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will
inform you at the time [my emphasis] that we will execute your order on that basis and we
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
I cant see that Templeton Securities gave Mr W the requisite warning at the time. That said,
I dont think much turns on that. I dont think a failure to give a warning at the time (as
required by COBS 10.4.1R and Templetons own terms and conditions) means that
Templeton Securities couldnt accept an execution only instruction from Mr W. I think the
more important question is whether, as clause 6.4 (and clause 3.1) required, Templeton
Securities reasonably believed that Mr W wasnt expecting advice and was dealing on an
execution only basis.
I think that the wording of Mr Ws email of 4 June 2014 was in some respects technical and
so would be unusual coming from a retail client such as Mr W, whod never worked in
financial services and was a relatively novice investor in equities. I dont think anyone
without some financial services experience, including in securities transactions, would be
familiar with or understood how a request to purchase shares with a 55 pence limit for T3
settlement or a £1.75 limit for T1 settlement would operate. Nor do I think a novice equities
investor such as Mr W wouldve necessarily understood what an AIM or GXG Exchange
listed security was and how that differed from a stock that was listed on, for example, the
London Stock Exchange. I note Mr W had indicated he had some advisory broking
investment experience. But no further details were given and Im not sure how credible that
was.
But, in any event, I dont think the wording of the email on its own meant that Templeton
Securities shouldve queried Mr Ws instruction. If anything, it might reinforce Templeton
Securities belief that he wasnt expecting advice. It might appear hed taken advice from
another party. On the face of it, it appeared to be a valid instruction. It was clear and specific.
It looked like Mr W had made a settled decision to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I dont think
theres anything in his email which suggests he was expecting Templeton Securities to give
him any advice about the transactions. I think the indication is that hed made a decision to
invest and he expected Templeton Securities to simply comply with his instruction and go
ahead and make the purchases.
That meant, and in accordance with clause 3.1 (see the penultimate sentence Ive quoted
from that provision above), Templeton Securities didnt accept responsibility for the
investment decision which Mr W had made when hed engaged Templeton Securities as anexecution only customer.
And clause 4.9, about Specific client instruction, said:
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions. Where your instructions
relate to only part of the order, we will continue to apply our order execution policy to those
aspects of the order not covered by your specific instructions.
4.9.2 You should be aware that providing specific instructions to us in relation to the
execution of a particular order may prevent us from taking the steps set out in our order
execution policy to obtain the best possible result in respect of the elements covered by
those instructions. We reserve the right to refuse specific instructions from you regarding the
execution of your order, where in our opinion such instructions are not practicable or may be
contrary to your best interests.
On the face of it, and looking at Mr Ws email in isolation, Templeton Securities didnt act
incorrectly in accepting Mr Ws instruction and carrying it out.
Should Templeton Securities have accepted Mr [Ws] instruction?
But I dont think what Ive said above is an end to the matter. As Ive gone on to explain, I
think there were wider factors which shouldve led Templeton Securities to question or look
more closely at Mr Ws instruction and whether it should comply with it.
Id reiterate (as set out above) that Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of a case.
Templeton Securities received a significant number of requests to open this type of advisory
account with it, all within a relatively short period. And, very shortly after the accounts were
opened, emailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to Templeton
Securities instructing investment in one or two particular and niche shares.
By the time Templeton Securities received Mr Ws instruction (4 June 2014) it had received a
large number of emails from different investors with near identical wording and all sent to the
same person at Templeton Securities (who I understand held the CF30 function with
Alexander David Securities at that time). This was all very shortly after the accounts had
been opened. Mr Ws instruction was sent on 4 June 2014. His instruction was one of at
least six or so very similar, if not identical, instructions received on that date. And, prior to
that, a significant number of similar instructions had already been received. For example, on
21 May 2014, six or so emails had been received with at least three or so more the next day,
22 May 2014.
To date weve received over 20 complaints against Templeton Securities, representing
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same time.
From what Ive seen, in all cases emails with the same or very similar investment
instructions were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities. And these are only the
cases where investors have complained and the matter has been referred to us. I think its
very probable that there are other instances of which Im not aware and where no complaint
has been made and referred to us.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty
wasnt unqualified.
First, Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any orderor instruction from Mr W. Clause 3.7 said:
We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
Secondly, Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance with its own terms
and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules. Clause 2.2 said:
These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The
term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the
FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail;
(ii) nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude or restrict any obligation
which we have to you under any Applicable Regulations;
(iii) we may take or omit to take any action we consider necessary to ensure
compliance with any Applicable Regulations; and
(iv) such actions that we take or omit to take for the purposes of compliance with
any Applicable Regulations shall not render us or any of our directors,
officers, employees or agents liable to you.
The duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the terms and conditions as an
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those terms. And that
Templeton Securities could take, or omit to take, any action it considered necessary (such
as not complying with a clients instruction) to ensure compliance with its regulatory
obligations.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through the
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and Rules (for
example COBS) and as set out in the terms and conditions.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles. Ive borne in mind
what the courts have said (see, for example, Ouseley Js comments in British Bankers
Association v The Financial Services & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin)) about how the
Principles operate in deciding whether Templeton Securities complied with them, taking into
account what Ive said above about the wider circumstances and in the context of the
instruction Mr W gave on 4 June 2014. I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly relevant
here. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.Here Templeton Securities had received at least six emails on the same day as Mr Ws and
thered been emails before that, including a batch on 21 May 2014; all were sent to the same
person; there was a pattern of remarkably similarly worded execution only instructions from
different clients with SIPP accounts. All wanted Templeton Securities to process purchases
in the same niche shares, traded on non mainstream markets.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker ought reasonably to have been alerted to the
possibility that something unusual might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to
have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the
transactions and take a closer look behind them. If it had done so, it would have identified
that the instructions were coming from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from
opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche shares
presenting significant risks which werent the type of investments that would normally
be expected to form the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche share(s),
suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone
to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And that was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of
section 19 of FSMA.
The number of grouped instructions to purchase niche shares, specifying particular
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares
of one or two small, obscure companies: a FCA authorised firm would have
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely
to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Ws instruction ought
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction.
Had it done so, and looked at the information it already had available on the account
opening documentation, it wouldve seen that Mr W didnt have much disposable income. He
had significant long term and short term liabilities and, aside from his pension plans valued
at £70,000 in total, no savings, other investments or assets. Hed indicated a medium or
medium/high attitude to risk and he apparently wanted to invest about a third of his total and
very modest pension provision in two niche shares which werent traded on mainstream
markets and when he had little experience of investing in equities. And no capacity for loss.
I understand that Templeton Securities has said that the unregulated firm wasnt known to it.
And it didnt have any discussions or agreement with it or any arrangement of any kind forthe introduction of business or otherwise. But, if Templeton Securities had looked into things
further, I think it wouldve discovered, relatively easily, that in Mr Ws (and others) case, an
unregulated firm, was the common denominator and that the many and similarly worded
instructions had come from that firm. Had Templeton Securities queried the instruction with
Mr W and explained its concerns, I cant see that hed have had any reason not to tell
Templeton Securities whod suggested the investment. And where the wording of the email
instruction had come from.
Giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments are regulated activities.
Section 19 of FSMA)  the general prohibition  says that no person may carry on a
regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so unless they are an authorised person. But I
dont see that Mr W (or other ordinary retail clients) wouldve been aware of the general
prohibition or that the business he was dealing with wasnt an authorised firm and the
significance of that. I dont doubt that Mr W (and others) would simply have trusted the
unregulated firm and assumed that its adviser was acting lawfully and in his best interests.
If Mr W had said that another business was involved and, if Templeton Securities had
checked out that business status, it wouldve found out that it was unregulated. Knowing
that an unregulated firm was involved ought, I think, to have rung alarm bells with Templeton
Securities  it seemed an unauthorised person was advising Mr W (and others) to invest in
niche, high risk shares.
I think Templeton Securities wouldve been able to identify from a fairly cursory look at the
information it held about Mr Ws circumstances, that any investment advice Mr W had
received  to invest a very substantial sum in two niche high risk shares  was wholly
unsuitable for him. And that he wasnt, for his own particular reasons, instructing an
unsuitable order, given that so many other, relatively new (and advisory) and inexperienced
clients were giving virtually identical instructions in similar circumstances. I think Templeton
Securities ought to have realised that it was likely that a third party was behind all the highly
similar and somewhat unusual instructions. At that point I think Templeton Securities
shouldve exercised its discretion to decline to accept the instruction.
Against that background, I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under
Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and
took reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with
adequate risk management systems, it shouldve identified the high number of execution
only requests from relatively new advisory clients. And that there were striking and unusual
similarities in those requests. I think that shouldve led Templeton Securities to take a closer
look at the instructions.
If it had done so, Templeton Securities wouldve discovered that Mr W (and others) were
being advised by an unregulated adviser who was assisting them in making high risk and
unsuitable investments. Given the clear risk of consumer detriment, Templeton Securities,
and acting in Mr Ws best interests, shouldve exercised its discretion and declined to accept
his instruction.
Ive also seen that in some cases Templeton Securities wrote to investors in Emmit some
months after the investment had been made. I understand that Templeton Securities has
told us that it wrote to customers following a review carried out by Templeton Securities
compliance office because of the number of transactions in Emmit and the rumours that
were circulating around the market about people investing in it. If Templeton Securities did
write to some customers at least and for the reasons it has explained, that supports what Ive
said  that Templeton Securities shouldve realised from the volume of similar, if not
identical, business that it was receiving that something unusual and untoward might be going
on and which required further investigation.Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. I think Templeton
Securities shouldve had systems and controls in place which, in the circumstances Ive set
out above, wouldve meant a pattern was spotted at a very early stage.
In my view, Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion under clause 3.7 to
decline to carry out Mr Ws instruction to purchase the Emmit and Eligere shares. It
shouldve realised that there was a real risk of consumer detriment. It was in a position to
prevent the purchase of the shares. Instead it facilitated Mr Ws investments. I think
Templeton Securities failed in its regulatory obligations by acting on Mr Ws instruction.
What would Mr W have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his
instruction?
I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities as to why it wasnt prepared
to carry out Mr Ws instruction wouldve carried weight. And given Mr W pause for thought
about whether investing in Emmit and Eligere Investments was a good idea.
Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things to Mr W and what may have
been said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the high
risk nature of the investments, Mr W may have decided immediately that he didnt want
anything further to do with the unregulated firm. Mr W may have trusted the unregulated
adviser. But I think an indication from Templeton Securities, a regulated firm,
that what Mr W was being told to do by someone who wasnt authorised to give financial
advice anyway, is likely to have caused Mr W to think again about the wisdom of investing
as had been suggested. I think, in that scenario, Mr W wouldve asked Templeton Securities
for advice as to how to invest instead and in line with his attitude to risk and circumstances.
If Mr W had still wanted to proceed as planned then, as hed already transferred funds to
Templeton Securities and if it had declined to purchase the shares, hed have needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account. I think that wouldve caused practical
difficulties for Mr W and is likely to have been enough to have made him think again.
Im aware that in some cases investors received a payment in return for investing. Mr W has
told us that he received a payment of £1,000. Theres no suggestion that it came from or via
Templeton Securities or that it had any knowledge of the payment. Im not sure if Mr W was
told at the outset that if hed get a payment and what sort of amount that might be. Or exactly
what the payment was for  the transfer to the SIPP or the purchase of the shares. I think its
likely to have been the latter.
I recognise the payment wouldve been an incentive for Mr W to purchase the shares, even if
Templeton Securities had intervened and said it wouldnt execute his instruction. Mr W may
have been motivated to overcome any difficulties in order to enable the share purchases to
proceed so hed get the payment. But I still think his faith in the unregulated firm is likely to
have been shaken had Templeton Securities declined to execute his instruction and
explained why.
Further, Mr W invested almost £25,000 in Emmit and Eligere. His assets were limited. The
Emmit and Eligere shares carried significant risk. I cant see Mr W wouldve been prepared
to risk losing that sort of sum in return for what was, proportionally, a relatively modest
payment. Although Mr W had liabilities, I havent seen anything to suggest that any of those
were pressing and such that he urgently needs to raise immediate funds.
On balance, I dont see that Mr W wouldve proceeded, just to secure the payment, hadTempleton Securities acted as I consider it shouldve done and declined his instruction. But,
as hed had the use and benefit of that money, Ive taken it into account when it comes to
redress.
Should Mr W have tried to sell his shares in Emmit earlier? And should he have realised
from Templetons letter of 29 May 2014 that the investments werent suitable for him?
As Ive said, Im aware that in some cases Templeton Securities wrote to customers about
their investment in Emmit plc. And Ive seen a letter dated 11 September 2014 to Mr W. He
says he didnt get it. But Ive thought about what, if anything, he shouldve done if he had got
the letter. Ive set out above what the letter, headed Appropriateness of your Investment 
Emmit said.
Even if Mr W did get the letter it was sent three months after his investment had been made
and so too late to prevent that investment. And the letter related to Emmit only  Eligere
wasnt mentioned. But, if a letter was sent before the Emmit shares were suspended
(October 2014), there may be some argument that Mr W (if hed got the letter) couldve done
something to mitigate his position, by trying to sell the shares. Templeton Securities has said
that the share price was then 132.50p. A sale at that price may still have represented a loss
for Mr W, but hed have avoided the total loss of his investment which he now faces.
But, although its arguable that the letter shouldve prompted an investor to take some
action, I dont think thats the case. First, selling wouldve crystallised a loss. Secondly, I
dont know if Mr W wouldve been able to sell and, if so, at what price. A sudden and large
volume of sell instructions might not have been possible for the market to accommodate and
is likely to have impacted adversely on the share price  I bear in mind that Templeton
Securities seems to have written to other investors at about the same time.
Thirdly, and more importantly, I dont think the letter was sufficient to prompt Mr W to act. It
was relatively brief. It did draw to his attention the high risk nature of the investment. And
that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there were
any particular problems with the investment. Mr W had only been advised to buy the shares
some three months earlier. From what Ive seen, that advice was from an unregulated firm
but, as Ive said, I dont think Mr W wouldve appreciated the significance of that. I dont think
the wording of the letter was sufficiently strong or specific such as ought to have prompted
an investor to act and take steps to try to reduce losses. Or that redress should be
calculated on the basis of what Mr Ws loss would have been as at 11 September 2014.
Ive mentioned above Templeton Securities letter to Mr W dated 29 May 2014. That was
sent before the investments were made and so, in theory, might have made Mr W think
again. But I dont think hed have realised from that letter, which referred, in particular, to
Penny Shares that the investments in Emmit and Eligere (both of which were public limited
companies) were the sort of investments the letter might be talking about and warning
against. I think he was acting on advice, albeit from an unregulated firm. I doubt that he
understood much about the companies, or how their shares were traded and that there
might be difficulties in selling the shares.
I maintain that Mr W wouldnt have been invested in Emmit and Eligere if Templeton
Securities had acted as it should and identified that there was an unregulated business
involved and declined to process Mr Ws investment instruction.
Sections 27 and 28 of FSMA
Lastly, and for completeness, Ive also considered the application of sections 27 and 28 of
FSMA. In doing so, Ive borne in mind the findings in the recent Court of Appeal case ofAdams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021]
EWCA Civ 474.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person (here Templeton Securities)
makes an agreement with another person (Mr W) in the course of carrying out a regulated
activity, which was a consequence of something said or done by a third party (here the
unregulated firm) acting in breach of the general prohibition (section 19 of FSMA). Section
27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the other party
and sets out what the other party can recover. Section 28 provides the court with the
discretion to allow an agreement to which section 27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it
considers it is just and equitable to do so.
Given the facts of Mr Ws complaint and the surrounding circumstances as Ive set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm was in breach of the general prohibition by
arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the RAO. And I think
the advice and the unregulated firms actions in providing Mr W with his draft purchase
instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr W buying the shares. As Ive explained, I think
its unlikely that so many ordinary retail clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest
in these little known niche shares at around the same time. I think a court would find that
section 27 applies, and Mr W can (subject to section 28), recover the monies he invested
through his agreement with Templeton Securities when it accepted his instructions to
purchase the shares and the investment losses he sustained.
Ive gone on to consider section 28. I think the overriding question is set out in section 28 (3)
 that is whether it would be just and equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow
enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price paid. The significance of sections 28
(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party
was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting
the requirements of section 28 (6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted..
So, whilst it has to be taken into account, that factor isnt necessarily determinative. And the
question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general prohibition was
being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but again it isnt a
determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think in deciding section 28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Ws case, the court
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round. For the
reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that shouldve
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being put in
harms way and that theyd been given the same unsuitable advice by the same unregulated
source. As Ive said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably in ignoring those
signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think, whilst the court would take into account
Templeton Securities may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, looking at the
circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably  rather than ignore those clear
warnings  it wouldve discovered the breach on making reasonable enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton Securities relief under section 28. And so Mr W could recover his money under
section 27.
In reaching my conclusions Ive borne in mind that Templeton Securities wasnt the only
business involved. I accept that the unregulated firm played a central role  it was behind the
setting up of Mr Ws account with Templeton Securities and his instruction to invest in Emmit
and Eligere. I have no power to investigate a complaint against an unregulated firm. But
Templeton Securities was a regulated firm and bound by the regulators Rules andPrinciples. I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its
regulatory obligations to Mr W.
Templeton Securities shouldve realised there was a clear possibility of detriment to Mr W
and acted to prevent that. In my view, Mr Ws losses flow from Templeton Securities failings
and so its fair and reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Mr W for those
losses. If Templeton Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in whole or in
part for Mr Ws losses, I dont think Mr W, if his losses are met in full by Templeton
Securities, would decline to assign any rights he might have against any other party to
Templeton Securities.
I note that in connection with other complaints T S Capital referred to the FCA having
conducted a thorough investigation with regard to both Eligere and Emmit, including a full
review of all telephone calls and emails. According to T S Capital the FCA then dropped the
investigation, deciding that T S Capital had no case to answer and no wrongdoing had been
found on its part. But in the absence of full details of that investigation and outcome (which
weve requested in connection with other complaints and which havent been forthcoming)
Im not sure that the FCA was investigating the same matter. Im considering if Templeton
Securities met its obligations to Mr W in its dealing with him. For the reasons Ive set out, I
dont think it did.'
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold the
complaint. I went on to set out what I considered was fair compensation. I asked both parties
to provide any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider before I made my 
final decision. 
Weve received a reply on behalf of Alexander David. In summary, it said my provisional 
decision had missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account the 
following:
Previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings.
That the FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to
Eligere and Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and emails. The FCA
dropped its investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No wrongdoing
was found.
The execution only nature of the trades.
The warning letter that had been sent to Mr W. 
The incentive payment hed received. 
It sympathised with Mr W and his loss and his involvement in what, with hindsight,
was clearly an investment scam undertaken by unregulated entities. But TS Capital
accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only
basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 3.2 of its terms and
conditions.
The trade instructions came from a regulated pension provider  the SIPP provider 
who was technically the account holder. The account was a trust account opened by
a regulated SIPP provider. Mr W was the beneficiary with powers to undertake
transactions. At the time of his instruction, it wasnt unreasonable for TS Capital to
accept the instruction and to conclude that it was an ordinary transaction(s) for
investments listed on recognised exchanges.
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had
previously made any direct stock market investment, as Mr W had done. The nature 
of the instruction wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the
account was opened with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and
undertake investment research through a variety of mediums. Such as web andinternet forums and tip services. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any
issues with the investments.
It became aware of general market concerns in September 2014. It accepted that it 
would have been appropriate and reasonable to alert investors of suitability 
concerns. And thats exactly what the letter of 14 September 2014 did - acting 
reasonably that letter was issued to raise awareness as to the potential suitability of 
the transaction. That was the date at which any fair and reasonable award should be 
calculated as Mr W had a duty to mitigate any loss. He shouldve questioned the 
investment on or around 14 September 2014 and sold the shares prior to their 
suspension, at which point his loss wouldnt have been anywhere near the total loss 
he ultimately suffered. 
About the incentive payment it said that He who comes into equity must come with 
clean hands. It wasnt aware of the payment which it said was clearly a pension 
liberation attempt. Mr Ws version of events surrounding the payment as provided by 
his representative wasnt consistent with the known facts about this issue as 
highlighted by the FCAs alert in October 2014. The key trigger for the scam was a 
promise of a cashback. This was the motivation for Mr W to transfer and 
subsequently send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. His version of 
events was a disingenuous recollection and/or had been drafted by his 
representative. The ability to liberate some of his pension savings prior to the
date he was allowed to access his pension was the most likely reason for the
investments.
It didnt accept what that relief shouldnt be provided under section 28 (3). The
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider and it was
technically the account holder and Mr W a beneficiary. It didnt believe it was
unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from
Mr W or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the
instruction was received and the investment was made.
TS Capital had acted on Mr Ws specific and direct instruction and conducted itself 
reasonably throughout the entire process. It didnt believe, even with the benefit of 
hindsight, that it had failed in its regulatory responsibilities. It maintained that, in 
putting things right, the calculation of any loss should be as at 14 September 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully whats been said on behalf of Templeton Securities/Alexander 
David in response to my provisional decision. But, having done so, Im not minded to depart 
from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint. The findings I made in my 
provisional decision and which Ive set out in full above form part of this decision.
The response on behalf of Alexander David to my provisional decision referred to TS
Capital. The firm was trading as Templeton Securities at the time of the event that the
complaint is about. Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to
Templeton Securities at the relevant time.
Im unsure as to what previous rulings made by this service are referred to. No final 
decision issued by an ombudsman has been cited. The reference may be to a view issued 
by one of our adjudicators or investigators. Their role is to try to resolve cases on an informal 
basis on the facts as they understand them. If the complaint cant be settled and is then 
referred to an ombudsman, it is considered afresh. Im not bound by what an adjudicator or investigator may have proposed. Ive made my decision here on the basis of what I consider 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted in my provisional decision, weve previously and in connection with other
complaints, asked Alexander David to provide further details about the investigation carried
out by the FCA. We were sent a copy of the FCAs letter to Alexander David dated 12 
November 2014. It said the FCA had appointed investigators to conduct an investigation 
into whether offences under section 89 of the Financial Services Act 2012; and or behaviour 
amounting to market abuse as defined in section 118 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) may have occurred. The letter went on to request various records 
relating to trades in Emmit plc, along with other trading records from certain account holders 
and account documentation from certain SIPP providers.
We contacted Alexander David to say that it appeared that the FCA was investigating a
different matter. And we explained that we were investigating the specific complaint made by
the consumer concerned and whether Templeton Securities had met its obligations in its
dealings with that consumer. We explained that wed consider any further evidence or
arguments about this issue if it could provide more details. But no further evidence or
arguments have been provided. So Im not satisfied that any investigation undertaken by the
FCA is relevant here. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities undertook Mr Ws 
instruction for the transactions on an execution only basis. And that Templeton Securities 
account terms and conditions allowed it to accept execution only instructions in certain 
circumstances. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I think there were wider factors which 
shouldve led Templeton Securities to look more closely at Mr Ws instruction and whether it 
should comply with it. For the reasons Ive explained, I think, had Templeton Securities 
looked into things further, it wouldve identified factors that wouldve led it to decline to 
accept Mr Ws instruction. I dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were diluted 
because the regulated SIPP provider was technically the account owner. This wasnt 
unusual and the instruction to invest came directly from Mr W.
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been technical for
someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And that investors can
obtain tips or undertake their own research from a variety of mediums. So a firm might
receive a number of orders for a particular investment at around the same time. But the
situation here was that a series of emails were all sent to the same specific person, with near
identical technical wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche
shares. I think this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions.
And that clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares and
on how to go about it.
I note that it seems to be accepted that Mr W was the victim of some kind of scam,
undertaken by unregulated entities. I think the series of emails shouldve alerted Templeton 
Securities to the fact that something unusual might be going on, and ought to have been a 
trigger for it to intervene in the normal processing of Mr Ws instruction and take a closer 
look behind it. And, having done so, it wouldve identified the role of the unregulated firm(s).
The letter sent by Templeton Securities to Mr W in September 2014 was headed
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit. TS Capitals letter refers to the letter being 
dated 14 September 2014 but the copy letter Ive seen is dated 11 September 2014. Mr W 
has said he didnt get it. But, even if he did, and whether the letter was dated 11 or 14 
September 2014, it wasnt concerned with Mr Ws Eligere investment, just his Emmit shares. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the content of the letter was 
such that Mr W ought to have sold the shares (in Emmit or Eligere) or that he acted unreasonably by not selling them. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that 
compensation should be calculated on the basis that Mr W shouldve sold his shares 
following receipt of the September 2014 letter and on the assumption he received it. 
I note whats been said about the incentive payment that Mr W received. Ive taken it into 
account. But I dont think, simply because Mr W got a payment (and even if Templeton 
Securities didnt know about it), that means he should be denied redress and when my view 
is that Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations to Mr W. 
I accept the payment of £1,000 may not have been known to Templeton Securities when it 
processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt as such, but I 
accept that sort of cash sum was attractive and wouldve been a motivating factor for Mr W. 
But, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont see, if Templeton Securities 
had intervened in the processing, and said it wouldnt process his instructions, that Mr W 
wouldve still gone ahead and just so that he could secure the payment. I maintain that hed 
more likely have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) who were driving the transactions. And, 
if hed still wanted to proceed, hed have needed to overcome practical difficulties. Hed 
already opened his account with Templeton Securities and money had been transferred into 
it. Hed have needed to have got that money back and transfer it to a new dealing account 
with another firm in order to buy the shares. But, as Mr W has had the use and benefit of the 
payment, its fair to take it into account in calculating redress. 
Templeton Securities says that Mr W had previously made direct stock market investment.
But Im not sure that was the case. I note that the account opening documentation showed
he had less than a years experience in investing in equities. It said he had advisory broking 
experience but, as Ive said before, no details were given and Im not sure how credible that 
was. Mr Ws preferred level of risk was recorded as medium or medium/high. I dont think 
thats consistent with investing a very significant proportion of his limited pension savings in 
two niche shares. Nor do I think he had the capacity for loss that might result. Relative to the 
amount Mr W was risking, the incentive payment of £1,000 was modest. Added to that were 
the practical difficulties Ive referred to in buying the shares if Templeton Securities had 
declined his instructions. Overall and on balance, I think its unlikely that Mr W wouldve 
invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for Templeton Securities failings.
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional decision, Templeton Securities
ought to have realised that something unusual was going on and made further enquiries
about Mr Ws investment instructions. And, on doing so, it wouldve identified that it was
likely that an unregulated firm was breaching the general prohibition. And, for the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to
allow Templeton Securities relief under section 28 of FSMA. I think a court would find that he 
could recover his money under section 27. Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ive repeated the 
redress I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr Was close as possible to
the position hed probably now be in if Templeton Securities hadnt agreed to purchase
the shares for Mr Ws account.
If it had done so I think Mr W, having already completed the switch of his pension to the
SIPP, wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what hes have done, but
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances
and objectives when he invested. 
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?To compensate Mr W fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investments with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable. It should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr W's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. I think Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected 
retirement age. So the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Investment Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
Interest
The amounts FTSE UK Date of purchase Date of my final 8% simple a year
invested in Private of each share decision from the date of
Emmit Investors Total my final decision
(£12,233.50) and Return Index to the date of
Eligere settlement if
(£12,233.50) settlement isnt
including charges made within 28
less a deduction days of
of £1,000 split Alexander David
equally  so £500 being notified of
from each. Mr Ws
acceptance of
my final decision.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much it has taken off. It should also give
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open (market), it
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Limited should
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the
SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance
paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities
Limited may wish to require that Mr W provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr W wouldve invested. But I think the index I have outlined
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that
Mr W said he was willing to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander David Securities Limited must redress Mr W as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman