DRN-3951919
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under his home 
insurance policy. Mr Hs complaint is about how Ageas handled a claim for water damage to 
his property and contents.
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents.
This decision covers the issues raised in Mr Hs complaint to this service in May 2002. It 
doesnt cover subsequent issues, including any settlement of the claim (either for the 
buildings or the contents elements). Nor does it cover whether Mr Hs property was 
underinsured (or the extent of any underinsurance) which would also potentially affect any 
settlement of the claim. This issue was ongoing when Mr H complained to this service.
What happened
In February 2022 water entered the ground floor of Mr Hs property, causing damage to a 
bedroom, ensuite bathroom and gym room. Mr H thought the water came from beneath the 
floor as it appeared to be coming up through it. Mr H contacted Ageas to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster (S) to assess the damage and 
handle the claim. A separate firm (P) were appointed to carry out drying of the property.
As part of their assessment of the claim, from an initial survey, S told Ageas they thought 
there was an underinsurance  issue with the property. That is, the buildings sum insured was 
less than it should have been to reflect the value of the property. S thought the sum insured 
was only 52% of what they thought the sum insured should have been. Ageas asked S to 
carry out a full survey of the property to confirm the extent of any underinsurance. The claim 
was put on hold while the underinsurance issue was investigated.
However, Mr H was concerned at the prospect of being underinsured (which might mean 
any claim be reduced proportionately to the degree of underinsurance. He was also unhappy 
that not all the contents damaged in the incident were included in the claim. But S said he 
wouldnt allow them assess the contents or attend for the stripping out and drying of the 
property. They also said Mr H left the contents outside the property, making it difficult to 
assess the  damage caused by the incident (as opposed to any subsequent damage from 
being left outside).
Unhappy at what had happened, the handling of the contents claim and the underinsurance 
issue (and the time being taken to assess the claim) Mr H complained to Ageas.
In their final response Ageas rejected the complaint. They said further visits (to assess the 
claim and the possible underinsurance) were necessary. Mr Hs refusal to allow them 
prevented the claim from being progressed. Any potential underinsurance needed further 
assessment, as it could impact significantly on settlement of the claim.. The damaged 
contents needed to be assessed, which was made harder by Mr H putting them outside. 
Mr H then complained to this service. He was unhappy at the actions of S, their visits to his 
property and delays in dealing with his claim. He said his property had been badly damaged 
and Ageas had wrongly said hed been uncooperative. On the underinsurance issue, he said 
he wasnt aware of a change [to the buildings sum insured] or the requirement to change it 
(as necessary]. He was also unhappy at what he said hed been told about washing his 
childrens damaged clothes that had been affected by dirty water following the flood. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part, concluding Ageas hadnt acted fairly. She 
thought the site visits were warranted, given the nature of the claim and the underinsurance 
issue. On the issue of Mr Hs childrens clothes, she didnt think there was evidence to 
support Mr Hs view he was asked to wash them. She thought Ss approach to the contents 
element of the claim was reasonable  being left outside made it harder to validate the 
damage [from the incident]. Since Mr H made his complaint to this service, a settlement had 
been offered to Mr H and S were awaiting a list of losses from him. If Mr H was unhappy at 
the settlement offered, it would need to be the subject of a separate complaint (to Ageas in 
the first instance). 
The investigator thought the main cause of the delays in Ageas assessing the claim were 
due to the investigation of the underinsurance issue. There were also delays from Mr H not 
responding to some correspondence from Ageas. But there was an element of delay from 
Ageas assessing Mr Hs response when he provided it, so she upheld this element of 
complaint. She thought it was ultimately Mr Hs responsibility to ensure that the buildings 
sum insured was appropriate. And there was no evidence the figure was provided by Ageas.
In recognition of the delays due to Ageas, the investigator thought they should pay £150 in 
compensation 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think the proposed level of compensation for the delays hed 
experienced in Ageass handling of the claim was sufficient.. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr H.
There are several elements to Mr Hs complaint, which Ive considered in turn. First, 
delays in assessing and handling the claim, together with the actions of S in visits to 
the property. Second, he wasnt aware of a change to the buildings sum insured or 
the requirement to change it. Thirdly the specific issue about Mr H saying he was told 
to wash his childrens clothes when they had been affected by dirty flood water.
On the first issue, Ive considered the timeline of events and the actions of Ageas and 
S following Mr Hs notification of the incident and lodging his claim in February 2022. 
Following Ss appointment, an initial visit was carried out in March 2022, about three 
weeks following Mr H notifying Ageas of the incident. Ss report is dated the following 
week and includes the potential underinsurance issue, recommending a further 
surveyor visit to assess the extent of any underinsurance more accurately. Given this 
issue, and the potential impact on the value of any settlement of the claim, I dont 
think it was unreasonable to put the claim on hold pending further evaluation. Ive also 
seen subsequent communication from Ageas saying Mr H could appoint his own 
surveyor if he wished (as he didnt want S to carry it out, his view being they wouldnt 
be independent). Ageas agreed Mr H could appoint his own surveyor, which I think 
was reasonable  although it took over a month to get to this point from the initial 
report from S indicating the need for a further, full survey. Ive considered this aspect when thinking about the overall handling of the claim, including the delays Mr H has 
referred to in his complaint.
Ageas case notes indicate Mr H wouldnt allow them to attend to assess the damaged 
contents, nor for their contractors to strip out and dry the property (as Mr H thought 
the latter would take too long and so wanted to carry it out himself  which Ageas 
agreed to but advised they would require a drying certificate on completion). But 
given what Ive concluded about it being reasonable for the claim to have been put on 
hold pending further investigation of the underinsurance issue, I dont think Ageass 
handling of this part of the claim was unreasonable.
On the second issue, the potential underinsurance, Ive considered the available 
evidence and information. The potential issue was first identified in Ss initial survey 
(in March 2022) which concluded Mr Hs property could have been insured only to 
52% of what they thought should have been the buildings sum insured. The report 
includes an estimated rebuild cost based on the size of the property and rebuild rates 
(adjusted for the age of the property and its stone construction. The report indicates a 
more accurate figure would need a further visit and assessment.
Ive thought about this carefully. Its standard practice for assessment of a claim to 
include consideration of whether the sum insured (in this case for the buildings 
element of Mr Hs property) is accurate and appropriate. Because this sum is one of 
the elements that determine the premium payable under a policy, if the sum insured is 
less than it should be (being based on the estimated cost of rebuilding the property in 
the event of a total loss) then a policyholder will have paid a lower premium than 
should have been the case. 
In those circumstances, its again standard practice (and set out as such in policy 
documentation) for insurers to reserve the right to decline claims or reduce them 
proportionately by reference to the proportion of the premium that would have been 
payable had the sum insured been accurate, compared to the actual premium paid. 
That being the case, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to seek a full survey to 
confirm (or otherwise) whether there was underinsurance of the property, and if so, 
the extent of that underinsurance. As this would have a direct bearing on the amount 
of settlement of the claim, I think it reasonable for Ageas to put the claim, on hold 
pending this further, full survey.
Ive also noted Ageas were willing for Mr H to use an independent surveyor for the 
follow up visit to assess the value of the property, as part of considering the 
underinsurance issue.
Ive also considered Mr Hs point that he wasnt aware of a change [to the buildings 
sum insured] or the requirement to change it (as necessary]. However, I dont agree. 
Looking at the policy document, theres a prominent reference towards the start of the 
document that (under a heading Some of the main reasons we dont pay claims 
are:) states:
The maximum claim limits shown in the Policy summery were not enough to 
replace their property and belongings as new).
Theres also a section headed Claim limits on your policy that includes the following 
statement:
its really important that youve got the right amount of cover in place for your 
needs. If youve not taken out enough cover to replace your property and possessions as new, this may have an effect on how much we pay for a 
claim.
Theres a further reference to the importance [by a policyholder] to tell Ageas about 
any changes to the property  which would include the buildings sum insured. Theres 
also a direct reference (under the Keeping up with inflation heading) to:
its still your responsibility to make sure the cover limits are enough to 
replace your property and possessions as new.
Taken together, I think this makes it clear that its the responsibility of the policyholder 
(Mr H) to ensure the sums insured for buildings (and contents) are accurate and 
provide the right level of cover. 
Overall, I think Ageas acted reasonably in their handling of the underinsurance issue, 
and to put the claim on hold pending a further, full survey to more accurately 
determine whether there was underinsurance, and if so the extent of that 
underinsurance. Ive also concluded Mr H should have been aware of his 
responsibility to provide an accurate figure for the rebuilding cost of his property (and 
therefore an appropriate figure for the buildings sum insured).
On the specific issue of Mr H saying he was told to wash his childrens clothes (that 
were affected by dirty flood water), Ive not seen anything in the evidence and 
information provided by Ageas (including that relevant to S) to support this 
happening. So, its not something Im able to conclude on.
Taking all these points into account, including the delays in progressing the second, 
full survey of the property to determine the extent of any underinsurance, I think Mr H 
did suffer some distress and inconvenience . Taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, I think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H.
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman