DRN-4307327
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Furniture Village (FV) mis-sold her furniture insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G bought some furniture from FV. At the same time, she purchased a policy of 
insurance. She said that during the face-to-face sale, she was told by the assistant that the 
policy covered for all eventualities. 
Mrs G was in the process of moving the furniture, when the back became damaged. She 
made a claim under the policy. But it was declined, as structural damage wasnt covered 
under the policy.  Mrs G felt that FV mis-sold her the policy, as she was led to believe that 
structural faults would be covered under accidental damage. So, she complained to FV. 
FV after considering her complaint, said that she hadnt been mis-sold the policy and it was 
clear from the policy documents that structural damage was not covered. Despite this, FV 
repaired Mrs Gs furniture as a goodwill gesture.  
FV thought that the complaint was sufficiently resolved, especially as Mrs G told them she 
was happy with the outcome. However, she referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. During this time, he requested a full 
business file from FV. But this wasnt provided. Mrs G submitted evidence in support of her 
claim. One of which were the insurance documents, among other things. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence that was before him. 
After considering all of the evidence that he had been provided with, he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that the sale had taken place in store and so it was 
unlikely that there would be evidence of what had occurred. He also said that the policy 
documents (provided by Mrs G) made it clear that structural damage wasnt covered. And 
even if the mis-sale could be proved, FV had repaired Mrs Gs furniture, which effectively put 
her back in the position pre-loss. So, there was nothing further he could ask FV to do. 
FV eventually responded to the complaint and accepted the view. Mrs G did not. She asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mrs G. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence that both parties have provided, as well as the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Mrs G said that she had been sold the policy whilst in store. She said that she had been 
assured by the assistant that cover would extend to structural damage of the furniture. 
FV refute the contention that it told Mrs G that structural damage was covered. 
Unfortunately, there is no other evidence that could be provided to show what took place 
during the sale of the policy. In circumstances like this, we look at what is likely to have 
happened. 
Mrs G received her policy documents. I have reviewed the policy document to see what was 
covered under it. The policy coverage includes cover for accidental damage (which doesnt 
extend to structural damage). Damage caused by staining and fabric protector. I have not 
read any information that shows that cover extends to faults with the structure of the 
furniture. 
Further, the accompanying policy documents outline what is and what is not covered, 
dependent on the type of cover that Mrs G had. Again, there is no indication on the policy 
that Mrs G had cover for any structural faults. Consequently, as Im satisfied that the policy 
was clear, fair and not misleading, and explains what is covered. I dont think Mrs G has 
provided enough evidence to show that she was mis-sold the policy. 
I understand that FV repaired Mrs Gs furniture as a goodwill gesture. And that Mrs G had 
originally been happy with the outcome. However, even if there had been enough evidence 
to satisfy that the policy had been mis-sold (which there hasnt been), then FV has already 
put Mrs G back into the position she wouldve been in pre-damage. Although Mrs G is likely 
to be disappointed with this decision, there is nothing further that I can reasonably ask FV to 
do to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman