DRN-3220229
The complaint
Mrs J, through her representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs J was approved for 45 loans between August 2005 and December 2014. 
After Mrs J had complained to LAH on 14 September 2020, LAH issued its final response 
letter (FRL) in April 2021 in which it set out a table of all the loans and I do not repeat those 
details here as Mrs J and LAH have them.
LAH determined that loans 1 to 44 (August 2005 to 11 September 2014) were Time Barred 
and it need not investigate them. It did look into the last loan approved for her in 
December 2014 and decided that it had not done enough probing about Mrs Js financial 
situation and so had decided to uphold the complaint in relation to loan 45. LAH has said 
that the offer is still available to Mrs J.
Mrs J rejected that resolution and as she had already referred her complaint to this Service 
then we approached LAH for further information and to provide our opinion on the jurisdiction 
element, meaning the Time Barred loans. 
Of the ones LAH considered Time Barred, our adjudicator applied the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules and thought that we could look at them all except for loans 1 and 2 as 
they were approved before April 2007 and therefore were outside our remit as we did not 
have authority to consider lending complaints before April 2007. Loan 3 was approved in 
October 2007.
LAH disagreed with the adjudicators view on jurisdiction. 
Our adjudicator asked for all the income and expenditure information it had about each of 
the loans and LAH confirmed to us that it did not have any further information (over and 
above that which it had already sent us) about those loans. 
Our adjudicator looked at the merits of the complaint as well and thought that LAH should 
put things right for Mrs J on loans 3 to 45 which were loans approved from October 2007 
onwards. 
LAH wrote back about the jurisdiction element and a second view was issued by our 
adjudicator to confirm the first view, as well as informing LAH that the case would be passed 
to an ombudsman for both jurisdiction and merits to be considered. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and on 19 January 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision in which I dealt with the jurisdiction element and gave my provisional 
findings on the merits of Mrs Js complaint. 
LAH has acknowledged that it received my provisional decision and Mrs J has responded to 
say she agrees with my provisional decision. 
The part relating to the Jurisdiction element is repeated here. 
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs J and LAH to 
decide whether we can look at all loans being complained about. There is no jurisdiction 
issue relating to loan 45 as LAH acknowledges that was approved within the six year period 
from the complaint date. 
Having looked at it all, I have come to the same conclusion as the adjudicator, and which 
I reached in my provisional decision which is that I have the power to consider all the loans 
being complained about (apart from loans 1 and 2) and Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mrs J) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. The exact wording is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can 
be found online in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 and 2 do fall outside this Services remit as they were approved for Mrs J 
before April 2007 which was when we had jurisdiction over these types of complaints. 
And I agree with the adjudicators approach that she was entitled to review the information 
LAH had sent to us about loans 1 and 2 when deciding about the other loan approvals  they 
were relevant to the overall lending relationship history.
In relation to loans 3 to 44, Mrs J complained about them more than six years after they 
were taken as Mrs Js letter to LAH was 14 September 2020. However, Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me Mrs J was aware or ought to have been aware more than three 
years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to complain. LAH has said that 
when Mrs J experienced repayment problems and struggled to repay the lending this 
shouldve led her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in 
this case to demonstrate that. And Ive thought about LAHs contention hat Mrs J obtaining 
debt advice on a certain date may have led to her realising she could complaint. But I think 
that is not enough to come to that conclusion. 
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and struggling to repay the 
lending would no doubt have led Mrs J to realise there was a problem (in terms of the 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made them 
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans. LAH has had decisions about this aspect before. 
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs J was or should have been aware 
earlier of her cause to complain more than three years before she did complain. 
LAH has cited other cases to support its view that this case was one where 44 of the 45 
loans were out of our jurisdiction. But as well as the overall approach by this Service that all 
cases are considered individually, I have reviewed two of the cases to which LAH have 
referred me. One has not received an ombudsmans decision and as such is not definitive. 
And the other has had a second view issued which is in line with our general approach to 
jurisdiction matters. And its the approach I take when considering jurisdiction matters. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 3 to 44 (along with loan 45) were raised within the time 
limits I need to apply and that I do have the power to consider them.Additional information in relation to Mrs Js complaint
Some information sent to us (email dated 11 November 2021) by LAH has provided me with 
an insight into LAHs actual view about Mrs Js complaint. I have noted that this appears to 
have been an internal email exchange between the two complaints departments at LAH but 
as I have received it, it has led me to reflect further.
The email was written by an LAH complaints department representative the day that our 
adjudicators view on 11 November 2021 was received by it. I have chosen not to duplicate 
all of the contents, but the import of the message is this: the LAH writer did not think that 
there was anything to contest about the view from this Service which was that it ought to be 
an uphold on loans 3 to 45. And the reason he gave was that the payment performance was 
shocking throughout pretty much all the loans issued especially since 2011 onwards.
The redress figure calculated for those loans was in the region of £14,000. But there 
appears to be a suggestion in the 11 November 2021 email that the loans going back to 
2007 may give LAH one line to argue  which I take to mean that the age of the loans 
arguing that they are too old for us to consider was one approach to defend the case.
The email following that, was one sent to this Service, the opening line of which is We still 
wish to raise jurisdiction in this case as we disagree with the FOS approach to these 
cases
Whilst LAH is, of course, entitled to withhold its consent to our considering a complaint under 
the applicable time limits, its really disappointing to see its taken an approach which 
acknowledges in Mrs Js case that its done something wrong. And LAH has acknowledged 
that there were failings which ought to be addressed (with a substantial payment being due 
to Mrs J) but its nonetheless chosen to pursue this time limit defence. Its an observation 
made by me as this email written by LAH does suggest that it could have resolved matters 
for Mrs J in April 2021 (the date it sent her its FRL) at least, if not before.
And the content of this email is pertinent when considering the merits part of this complaint, 
which I have proceeded to consider below - whether I think the loans were lent responsibly.
Now that I have decided on this part then I have proceeded to come to decisions on the 
merits. In the next section I have duplicated the provisional findings in smaller type so that it 
is differentiated from my final determination.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings and decision on the merits dated 19 January 2022
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.  LAH has received many 
decisions from this Service about irresponsible lending and so my summary here is very brief. 
I note that some loans were approved by LAH when the relevant guidance for lenders was before the 
FCA was the regulator. And this case concerns loans that were started before the Office of Fair 
Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) that was issued in March 2010. Prior to this the FLAs Lending Code 2006 gave some appropriate guidance to use when lending. And 
from January 2008 onwards theres also the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) Consumer credit licensing 
guidance.
  
The FLA Lending Code refers to a potential lender having to carry out a sound and proper credit 
assessment rather than a proportionate check. And rather than specifying the lending being 
sustainable the earlier guidance refers to the lender having to consider factors which may show a 
high risk of experiencing financial difficulty. 
And, under the guidance given by the OFT, businesses should make sure they have made 
reasonable enquires to ensure it lent responsibly. 
Whilst the wording is different in the OFTs ILG (March 2010), the Lending Code 2006 and the OFT 
guidance, the tests to ensure the lending is right for the consumer are broadly similar. I have 
considered them all. 
Im familiar with the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) issued in March 2010. 
Under the guidance given by the OFT, businesses should make sure they have made reasonable 
enquires to ensure they have lent responsibly. The OFT ILG was the foundation of the rules going 
forward in the FCA Consumer Credit Source book (CONC) and often sections of the ILG were cited in 
those rules. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs J. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. and/or may lead the lender to recognise that the 
customer was showing  a high risk of experiencing financial difficulty.
LAH was required to establish whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further. Similarly with 
the earlier guidance and codes. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Js complaint. 
Our adjudicator had assessed from the limited details LAH had sent to us that Mrs Js repayment 
history for loans 1 and 2 was poor. Mrs J took out loans 1 and 2 in August 2005 and November 2005, both for £200 and to be repaid in 
32 weeks. They overlapped with each other. She took 65 weeks to repay loan 1 and 100 weeks to 
repay loan 2 which was not repaid until 25 October 2007  two weeks after Mrs J had been approved 
for loan 3. By the time she took out loan 3 on 11 October 2007, Mrs J had been in continuous debt for 
over two years and had taken three times the amount of time agreed to repay loans 1 and 2. 
I certainly think that LAH ought to have been alerted to the arrears Mrs J had been in for loans 1 and 
2 over two years and so I do think that full and extensive financial reviews ought to have been carried 
out before approving loan 3. I dont think that a pattern of lending can have developed with two loans. 
If any pattern had developed by October 2007 (loan 3 approval date) it was that Mrs J was 
persistently unable to meet her debts. 
I used the information LAH submitted to us (to challenge the jurisdiction issue) on 15 November 2021 
which outlines the information it did appear to have about Mrs J (despite confirming with us it had little 
to send us) which says:
her accounts were defaulted in May 2013. This would most likely have caused [Mrs J] 
financial distress.
And
[Mrs J] received arrears letters in 2009 and each year thereafter until 2016.
And using the information I have seen on the 11 November 2021 email, then it seems that Mrs Js 
records demonstrated that she was a poor payer and as such not a customer likely to find repayment 
of more and larger loans any easier and likely to find herself in financial difficulty.  
So, I am satisfied that from Loan 3 full financial reviews ought to have been carried out before lending 
again. I do not have any detailed information about Mrs Js financial position, and as these loans were 
approved so long ago I do not think its likely Ill be able to obtain any from Mrs J. So, proceeding on 
what I have I am satisfied that Mrs J had been in debt and in arrears with LAH before loan 3 was 
approved and that this continued. Mrs J returned for a further loan two weeks later in October 2007. 
So, I am planning to decide that Loans 3 and 4 ought not to have been approved.
LAH failed to make reasonable enquires to ensure it lent responsibly, and/or LAH failed to consider 
factors which may have indicated a high risk of Mrs J experiencing financial difficulty and/or LAH 
failed to conduct a sound and proper credit assessment.
This seems to have continued for some time and so my view is the same for loans 5 onwards and 
I am planning to uphold Mrs Js complaint about loans 3 to 7 inclusive.
Pattern of lending 
I have reviewed the records LAH has sent to us and I am able to see that often Mrs J had three or 
four loans with LAH at one time, and often her repayment periods for a loan were three times the 
original scheduled loan term. For example: 158 weeks to settle a loan approved in September 2011 
with a 52 week term, and 163 weeks to settle a loan approved in December 2012 with a 52 week 
term. 
The LAH records tell me what this multiple lending resulted in, and I duplicate here part of the records 
which are: 
Agreement Date Date Settled/Written 
Off/LiveAgreement 
TermTotal Acc Arrs 
When Loan Issued
20/09/2012 02-05-2013 41 £985.00
11/10/2012 14-08-2014 41 £855.00
15/11/2012 11-09-2014 41 £575.00
20/12/2012 14-08-2014 41 £445.0020/12/2012 04-02-2016 52 £445.00
02/05/2013 25-12-2014 41 £755.00
14/08/2014 30-06-2016 32 £1,033.00
11/09/2014 03-11-2016 41 £725.00
25/12/2014 22-12-2016 41 £366.00
This shows me that Mrs J had Acc Arrs which I interpret to mean that Mrs J had accumulated or 
accrued arrears before the new loans were issued. The December 2014 one was loan 45. 
All these points plus some account notes showing how the lending relationship developed over the 
years demonstrates that Mrs J was often in arrears, often received correspondence about that from 
LAH and despite this LAH continued to lend. 
And I think that by Loan 8, approved for £500 in May 2008 (41 week term), a pattern of lending had 
developed by which I can see from LAHs records that Mrs J was being approved for loans every two 
or three months. And the refinancing of earlier loans into fresh loans was a regular pattern.
And I think that by Loan 8, approved for £500 in May 2008 (41 week term), a pattern of lending had 
developed by which I can see from LAHs records that Mrs J was being approved for loans every two 
or three months. And the refinancing of earlier loans into fresh loans was a regular pattern.
So, I think that from Loan 8 LAH ought to have ceased lending completely. 
I think that Mrs J lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Js ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about Loans 8 onwards as well as loans 3 to 7, and LAH should put 
things right.
The current position
As I have explained earlier in this decision, both parties have responded either to 
acknowledge my provisional findings or to accept them and so I can be succinct. 
As neither party has sent anything further for me to review then I see no reason to depart 
from the provisional findings made and duplicated here. And so, I repeat that provisional 
decision here and I uphold Mrs Js complaint in relation to loans 3 to 45. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs J from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs J may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs J in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs J loans 3 to 45 (of which I note that LAH has accepted 
already loan 45).
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything LAH have already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should pay any remaining refund to Mrs J. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LAH to pursue this 
further.
D) As loans 3 to 7 likely do not appear on any current personal credit file for Mrs J I make no 
direction in relation to the amendment of the credit file for those loans. 
The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing for loans 8 to 45 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so for those loans which still appear on her credit file, I direct that 
LAH should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Js credit file. 
If LAH have sold any of the loans LAH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax LAH have deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint and I direct that S.D. Taylor Limited does 
as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman