DRN-3836467
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) hasnt reimbursed him after he 
transferred money to a fraudster as part of an impersonation scam. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr M was the victim of a scam. He received a telephone 
call from someone who said they were calling from his broadband internet provider but who 
we now know to be a fraudster. The fraudster told him there were issues with his 
broadband that meant hackers might be able to access his bank accounts and steal his 
money.  
Mr M has told us that the call took place on his landline. So, he doesnt know the telephone 
number the caller called from, but hes told us that the person he spoke with sounded 
professional and genuine. They knew his name and that he had an account with the 
internet provider in question. There were numerous calls with the fraudster(s) which took 
place over a number of days and Mr M was told updated security needed to be set up on 
his account. Mr M was told to login to his internet banking and check his bank account. Mr 
M didnt see any unrecognised payments. However, he was told he would need to increase 
security on his account regardless in order to make sure he was fully protected. 
Mr M was asked to install TeamViewer. The fraudsters then told Mr M that he would need 
to make some payments to accounts set up in both his and his wifes names so they could 
test the new online security. The fraudster then talked Mr M through the online payment 
process - telling him to ignore any online scam warnings that popped up during the 
process. On 23 November 2021, Mr M made the following payments:
£5,124.68
£4,816.91
£9,941.59
The final payment was blocked by Al Rayans security systems and returned to Mr Ms 
account. So, it wont be discussed further here. 
Mr M has said that throughout his conversations with the fraudster(s), some of which 
lasted over three hours, he was satisfied that he was speaking to a professional and that 
his money was at risk of being stolen. However, shortly after he had made the payments, 
Mr M realised he had made a mistake. Worried that he had been scammed, Mr M 
contacted Al Rayan.
Al Rayan acknowledged that Mr M had been the victim of a scam, but it declined to offer 
him a refund. It said Mr M had ignored scam warnings that had popped up on his screen 
during the payment process on over 20 occasions during the scam and so it didnt think it 
should be held liable for the success of the scam now. It went on to say that it had got in 
touch with the receiving banks where Mr Ms funds were paid to immediately upon 
notification of the scam but unfortunately, by this point, the majority of Mr Ms funds had 
been removed, and Al Rayan was only able to recover around £60. 
Unhappy with Al Rayans response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. She felt the two scam payments to be unusual for Mr 
Ms account  Mr M hadnt made a payment from the account in over 6 months - and so 
she thought Al Rayan should have contacted Mr M about the payments before it agreed 
to process them on his behalf. Had Al Rayan done so, she thought the scam couldve 
been uncovered and the scam and Mr Ms loss prevented. 
Al Rayan did not agree with our investigators opinion. It said:
The transactions shouldnt be considered unusual for an ISA account. ISA 
customers often maintain high balances for long periods of time before making 
larger transfers for a specific purpose. And so, the type of activity that took place 
during this scam wouldnt be considered unusual for this type of account. 
The balance of the account was funded by a number of high value transactions 
into the account - all of which were in excess of £10,000. So, the payments now in 
discussion here did match Mr Ms previous account activity. 
The payments didnt raise any suspicions at the time and were under Al Rayans 
threshold for further intervention which it believes is in-line with industry 
standards. 
Mr M wouldve seen a scam warning at the time of making the payments that set 
out the consequences of continuing with the payments. Al Rayan thought this 
warning shouldve prevented Mr M from continuing.  
The investigators findings appeared to be based on the fact that any transaction 
over £5,000 should be blocked for further questioning by the bank. Al Rayan 
pointed out that this was not an industry standard, and it felt the security 
measures it had in place at the time were adequate.  
Our investigator didnt change her mind and as an agreement has not been reached, the 
case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im currently minded to reach a different outcome to the one reached by 
our investigator. Im currently minded to say that both Al Rayan and Mr M should bear 
responsibility for the success of the scam. And so, I think the complaint should only be 
partially upheld. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Al Rayans obligationsThe starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Al Rayan should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Al Rayan acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr M when he transferred over £9,000 to a scammer and when he reported 
the scam, or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr M authorised the transactions himself. Because of this, Al Rayan 
had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payments - as Ive 
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Al Rayan shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
It is important for me to stress here that The Financial Ombudsman Service accesses each 
case on its own merits and in the particular circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that 
the initial transfer of £5,124.68 was unusual when compared with Mr Ms previous account 
history. And so, Im persuaded that it shouldve prompted further action from Al Rayan. 
I acknowledge the argument put forward by Al Rayan that the payment was under its 
threshold for intervention - which it believes to be in line with industry standards. I also 
acknowledge that it believes the scam activity seen here to be characteristic of how this 
type of account is more generally manged by its customers. However, my role is to assess 
whether the transactions that took place here were unusual and out of character for this 
particular account. It is not to assess whether the activity is similar to that expected across 
the industry. And in this case, Im satisfied the transactions were unusual. Mr M had not 
made a payment from this account in over 6 months  the account appears to have been 
used as a savings account. However, the initial transaction here is out of the blue, its of 
high value and is being made to a new payee. And so Im satisfied the payment was out of 
character when compared to how the account had historically been run. And so I think Al 
Rayan shouldve had and got in touch with Mr M prior to processing the payment. And, I 
think had they got in touch, its most likely the scam wouldve been uncovered. 
Im satisfied some basic questions around who Mr M was paying wouldve quickly 
uncovered that Mr M was likely falling victim to a common impersonation scam that 
involves fraudsters pretending to be from a genuine broadband provider. And Al Rayan 
wouldve been able to tell Mr M that no legitimate organisation would contact him and ask 
him to move money from his accounts for security reasons. I see no reason to doubt that, 
having been able to discuss the common features of this type of scam, Mr M wouldve been dissuaded from continuing from making the payment(s). And so, my starting position 
here is that Al Rayan should offer Mr M a full refund of the payments made to the 
fraudsters. But that is not the end of the story.  
Should Mr M bear some responsibility for the overall loss
Ive also considered whether Mr M should also bear some responsibility for his overall 
losses, and I think he should. In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that 
was set by the fraudsters and the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mr M when acting 
in the moment. Ill explain why:
Mr M appears to have believed what he was being told by the fraudsters 
without trying to independently verify the information they were giving him. And 
he accepted that he was speaking with his broadband internet provider without 
verification too. Hes told us that he did so because the caller sounded 
professional and because whomever he was speaking with knew he had an 
account with the internet provider in question. It doesnt appear that Mr M 
carried out any checks on the caller at all before proceeding to make the 
payments  he simply took what he was being told at face value.
Its unclear how any potential hackers couldve used Mr Ms internet connection 
to access his bank accounts and so its unclear why Mr M found this story 
plausible.
Mr M checked his bank accounts online after being told that they could have 
been compromised and he could see no money had left his account, but he 
proceeded with the payments to secure his account regardless.
Mr Ms broadband provider wouldnt generally play a role in preventing crime or 
need its customers to access their personal bank accounts. And Im satisfied 
that this should have struck Mr M as unusual. It would be his bank that dealt 
with any potential threats of fraud on his account, not his broadband provider.
Its unclear why Mr Ms broadband provider would need a customer to transfer 
money out of their bank account in order to check the security of an internet 
connection. But Mr M doesnt appear to have questioned this.
Al Rayan has shown that during the payment process, Mr M was shown a 
warning that set out that no legitimate organisation would ask him to move 
funds from his account for security reasons. Whilst Ive taken on board what 
Mr M has told us about the fraudsters telling him to move past the scam 
warnings presented to him, Im satisfied that the scam warning here shouldve 
rang alarms bells for Mr M  it was particularly relevant to the scam he was 
falling victim to.
Overall, Im satisfied that there were a number of things here that should have caused Mr M 
concern  he realises this himself only shortly after the payments have been made. And so, 
Im satisfied that Mr M has failed to mitigate his own losses and therefore any award now put 
forward should reflect that he should bear some responsibility for his loss alongside Al 
Rayan. Any compensation award should fairly and reasonably reflect the role that each party 
played in respect of the success of the scam. For this reason, I am satisfied that the most 
fair and reasonable outcome is for Al Rayan to refund 50% of Mr Ms loss  alongside 
interest calculated at the account rate, minus any funds already returned. As it stands, I think 
this settlement reflects that Al Rayan couldve done more to prevent the success of the scam 
but at the same time, Mr M couldve done more too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Al Rayan responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with my findings. Mr M 
responded to say that hed like to reiterate how much pressure the fraudsters had put him 
under whilst the scam was taking place. He also enquired if Al Rayan had acted quickly 
enough in contacting the receiving bank when he reported the scam. 
I want to assure Mr M that I have not disregarded the pressure that he would have been 
under at the time of the scam. But I also cant ignore that no checks on the caller were 
carried out, despite the requests being unusual.
I also want to assure Mr M that I have seen evidence which shows me that Al Rayan got in 
touch with the receiving bank whilst he was still on the telephone to Al Rayans call-handler 
reporting the scam and an indemnity was sent around an hour later too. And so I am 
satisfied that Al Rayan contacted the receiving bank within a reasonable timeframe.
Finally, I want to stress that Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr M. I 
have significant sympathy for the situation he found himself in. But having thought very 
carefully about what hes told us happened at the time and Al Rayans actions, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Al Rayan solely liable for his 
losses. 
Summary
Having taken into account the further submissions provided to me by Mr M, I am not minded 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision for the above reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
Al Rayan Bank PLC should now:
Refund Mr M 50% of his total loss taking into account any funds that have been 
returned from the receiving bank.
Pay interest on the above amount at the account rate from the date the funds left 
the account until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman