DRN-4355942
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the advice he was given by WPS ADVISORY Ltd to transfer his
defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a SIPP (Self-Invested Personal Pension).
Mr C complains the advice to transfer was unsuitable, wasnt in his best interests and has
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 August 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt minded to make an award to 
Mr C were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below and it forms part 
of this final decision. 
Provisional Decision
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of
the complaint to both parties on 11 April 2022. The background and circumstances to the
complaint were set out in her assessment. However to recap, in November 2019 Mr C spoke
to WPS ADVISORY Ltd (which I will refer to as WPS) about transferring his pension. He was
interested in accessing his pension because he wanted to go into retirement debt-free.
WPS completed a fact find analysis to establish Mr Cs circumstances and financial
objectives. Following an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk and discussions with the
adviser it was agreed his risk appetite was cautious.
WPS sent Mr C a suitability report dated 20 January 2020. WPS recommended Mr C
transfer his defined benefits to a SIPP and invest using a discretionary fund management
service.
WPS noted Mr C had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its reasons for
recommending the transfer:
He wanted to clear his outstanding mortgage of £58,000, towards which he was 
paying £1,500 a month. Mr C had already accessed around £35,000 of tax-free cash 
from another pension to pay off some of his mortgage.
He also wanted to pay off his credit card debt, which came to £27,000 in total, and 
towards which he was making £150 monthly payments.
Mr C wanted to take a flexible income in retirement and to have more flexible and 
higher death benefits.
Mr C agreed to the transfer. Shortly after a sum of approximately £189,000 was transferred
to the SIPP.
Mr C complained to WPS about the advice hed been given through a representative in July
2022. WPS didnt uphold his complaint, and it was referred to us.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, that the
benefits Mr C had accrued in the defined benefit scheme offered a guaranteed income for
life and formed a significant part of his total pension provision. She said at the time of the
advice Mr C had other pensions which she understood were defined contribution schemes,
which had a combined total value of around £346,000.
The investigator referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) and Rule 19.1.6 which provided:
"When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best Interests."
The investigator said the transfer value comparator figure was £262,066. This compared to
the transfer value provided of £188,942. She said Mr C needed to achieve significant
additional growth on the transfer value to match the same level of benefits if intending to
draw benefits at the scheme's normal retirement age.
The investigator said the investment return (critical yield) required to match the defined
benefit scheme at retirement at age 65 was around 6.5% per year, on the basis that Mr C
took tax-free cash at that age. The relevant discount rate (which she thought provided a
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable
for a typical investor at the time) closest to when the advice was given published by the
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 2.7% per year. She
said that for further comparison the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the
middle projection 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
The investigator said as well as Mr C's attitude to risk, it was also important to consider
capacity for loss. She noted Mr C had other defined contribution pension funds valued at
about £346,000, and she thought Mr C therefore had capacity to absorb potential investment
losses on this transfer.
The investigator said shed thought Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially
lower overall value than the defined benefits scheme at retirement as a result of investing in
line with his low attitude to risk and given all the circumstances. So on this basis alone she
didnt think transferring appeared to have been in Mr Cs best interests; Mr C was unlikely to
improve on the benefits he was entitled to from the defined benefits scheme. She said whilst
Mr C had a considerable capacity for loss, his other pension provision wasnt guaranteed.
The investigator went on to consider whether there were other good reasons for transferring.
She noted Mr C wanted to take benefits early and use tax-free cash to pay off his mortgage
and credit card debt. Mr C had already accessed the tax-free cash from one of his other
pensions to pay off some of his mortgage. And at the time of the advice Mr C still had around
£58,000 outstanding on it.
The investigator said if Mr C had taken tax-free cash from the defined benefits scheme he
would have been entitled to a lump sum of £27,470 and a reduced pension of £4,120 a year.
If Mr C transferred to a personal pension he would be entitled to a lump sum of around 
£47,000 immediately.
The investigator said the Suitability Report recorded Mr C wanted a monthly income of
£1,500 in retirement. And at the time of the advice Mr C was paying £1,200 towards his
mortgage each month. Mr C had retired, so the mortgage payments formed a significant partof his monthly outgoings. She noted Mr Cs representative had said Mr C had previously re-
mortgaged and he wasnt at risk of defaulting. The investigator noted Mr C had two
uncrystallised pensions with a combined value of around £256,000. The investigator said
she hadnt seen evidence that other options had been discussed with Mr C, such as re-
mortgaging again, taking tax-free cash from the defined benefits scheme to reduce the debt
while preserving the valuable guaranteed benefits, or using the other pensions to manage
his debts.
The investigator said that overall she wasnt persuaded that transferring the pension in order
to get a higher tax-free sum was suitable for Mr C, as this meant he lost his only source of
guaranteed income. She said she thought if clearing the mortgage was of utmost importance
to Mr C he could have done this using his other pension funds.
The investigator went onto consider the significance of death benefits to the advice to
transfer. She acknowledged that the lump sum death benefits on offer from the personal
pension were likely an attractive feature for Mr C. However she said the pension was
primarily intended to provide an income throughout retirement, rather than act as a type of
life plan. She didnt think the adviser did enough to explore to what extent Mr C was willing to
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for death benefits paid as a lump sum. She
said it was also important to note that the level of death benefits available depended on how
much remained in the pension when Mr C passed away. The investigator didnt think the
different way death benefits would be available from the personal pension justified the likely
lower benefits Mr C would be receiving during retirement.
To sum up, the investigator didnt think the advice to transfer was suitable. She said Mr C
already had other pension arrangements which could have been used to meet his
objectives, rather than losing the valuable guaranteed benefits the defined benefit scheme
provided. The investigator said WPS had failed to demonstrate there was a compelling need
that meant transferring was in Mr Cs best interests and to justify giving up the guaranteed,
risk-free benefits.
WPS didnt agree with the investigators findings. It provided further evidence and arguments
that I considered in making my decision below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WPS has provided some more recent information which I think changes Mr Cs financial
position from that understood by the investigator. Ive therefore issued a provisional decision
to give the parties an opportunity to provide further evidence and arguments.
WPS has said Mr Cs initial complaint, made through a representative, was an allegation of
negligence and contained a number of false statements. It said, in summary, that the
complaint wasnt properly defined and that it wasnt possible for it to understand what was
negligent about the advice. It said the investigator had decided for herself what the complaint
was about.
The Ombudsman Scheme is intended to deal with complaints in an informal manner. We
have an inquisitorial remit and complainants dont have to precisely define their complaint as 
theyd need to do in bringing legal action in court; we are able to look more widely at the 
correspondence to determine the scope of the complaint made. This is consistent with the 
courts findings in Full Circle Asset Management Ltd V Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd 
and others (2017).Ive considered the complaint letter dated 19 July 2022. It said, amongst other things, that Mr
C had been advised to transfer his defined benefits pension to a SIPP, claimed that the
advice was negligent and that Mr C had lost out financially as a result.
It made a number of points about Mr Cs circumstances and said they demonstrate how
unsuitable [Mr C] is for a SIPP and how negligent the advice received was, as he has no
knowledge of investments meaning he would not be able to make the best financial choices
for his retirement fund nor did he have the capital to cover any losses. The letter went on to
outline what it considered were the various failing in the advice and advice process. And the
COBS rules it considered had been breached, including COBS 9.2.1R  it said It is clear
that the advice provided and pension investment to which Mr C was transferred was not
suitable as he would have benefitted more from leaving his pension with his previous
provider.
I accept that some of what was said was inaccurate. However I think it was clear that, at
heart, the complaint was about the suitability of the advice given to transfer. Im not
persuaded that the complaint is frivolous or vexation and should be dismissed.
If WPS wasnt sure about the nature of the complaint it should have been alerted to it when it
received the investigators assessment dated 11 April 2022. WPS then had the opportunity
to present its side of the story and respond to the investigators findings. Both parties are told
the findings of our initial investigation and given the opportunity to provide any further
evidence or arguments. Im satisfied WPS has had ample opportunity to provide its side of
the story, and Ive considered all the evidence and arguments its presented in making this
decision.
The investigator understood that Mr C had an outstanding mortgage of £58,000. And credit
card debts of £27,000. She said he had other pension provision  apart from the OPS that 
was being transferred, of £346,000. And this included two uncrystallised pensions worth in 
total £256,000 (which was taken from the suitability letter dated 20 January 2020). So she 
thought Mr C was able to take tax-free cash from these two schemes of around £64,000 and 
with the tax-free cash available from the defined benefits scheme pay off all the mortgage 
and credit card debt.
However, my understanding is that Mr C had already taken the tax-free cash from one of
these pensions (£35,000) to reduce the mortgage debt down from £90,000 to £58,000. So
he only had one other pension to take tax free cash from (so had around £32,000 available
rather than £64,000)  plus the tax-free cash that he could have taken direct from the OPS
(about £27,000) at the time. In total he therefore had access to about £59,000 tax-free cash
if he took benefits from the OPS. The total credit card and mortgage debt was about
£85,000.
So Mr C could have taken the tax-free cash of £27,000 from the defined benefit scheme and
income of just over £4,000. And along with the tax-free cash available from the other
personal pension of around £32,000, repay the credit card debts and part of the mortgage to
leave about £26,000 debt. Hed then need to fund this out of income which would be subject
to income tax.
Or alternatively, if Mr C transferred the defined benefits to secure the higher tax-free cash of
£47,000 and also used the £32,000 from the other personal pension, he could largely pay off 
the mortgage and credit card debt. The remainder - about £6,000, would then be needed to 
be funded from income from his personal pensions again subject to income tax.
The key question here is whether a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. Its clear that the
adviser had discussions with Mr C about risk, and it was ultimately agreed he wanted to takea cautious approach to it.
Given the figures in the pension transfer report, it was clear that it would cost significantly
more than the transfer value offered to buy comparable benefits to those offered by the
defined benefit scheme. The investigator referred to the figure of £262,000 relative to the
transfer value offered of just under £189,000. However that was based on the assumption of
Mr C taking all the benefits as an income and no tax-free cash. Assuming he took tax-free
cash from the OPS, the comparative figure was £216,743. So still above the £189,000, but
not as much.
Given his circumstances and objectives, Mr C was always likely to take tax-free cash to
enable him to pay off at least a significant part of his debt, even if that was from the defined
benefits scheme. I think that was reasonable in his circumstances and I think the £216,743
was the appropriate comparative figure.
As Ive said, Mr C could have used one of his other personal pensions to provide tax-free
cash of around £32,000 to pay off the credit card debt  which I think given the likely rate of
interest on it would have been a priority  and reduce the mortgage debt. So I think the issue
is whether it was reasonable to transfer to obtain the higher tax-free cash from the personal
pension in order to pay off a significantly larger proportion of the mortgage debt.
The advantages and disadvantages of doing that will depend on the specific facts of the 
case. Here Mr C had retired and was relying on his pension income. Whatever he did - even 
if re-mortgaging  he needed to pay off that debt. As Ive said above, Mr C could have taken 
the benefits from the defined benefits scheme and paid the remaining £26,000 from income -
which would be subject to tax. Or if he transferred the higher tax-free cash would leave him
with about £6,000 to pay off the mortgage  again from income subject to tax.
I think the contemporaneous evidence shows that Mr C took a lot of comfort from paying off
that mortgage debt  or at least the majority of it. That in itself provided a degree of security,
in particular from any increases in mortgage rates.
However the main disadvantage of transferring was that Mr Cs benefits would likely be
lower and subject to ongoing investment risk. And Mr C had said he was a cautious investor.
Mr C had other pension provision and was drawing income from one of his other pensions.
But apart from the benefits from the defined benefit scheme they were all subject to
investment risk and so he already had significant exposure to risk.
Taking all the above into account, my view is that the advice to transfer in itself was
reasonable. It provided a materially higher lump sum which enabled Mr C to pay off a
significant proportion of his mortgage and debts. That was in line with his objective, and in
my view it was a credible objective in the fact that it made financial sense in Mr Cs particular
circumstances.
However having said that, I recognise that it was highly unlikely that the benefits from the
personal pension in drawdown and on an ongoing basis would match the level of benefits
from the defined benefits scheme given the investment return on the transfer value was
6.5%. And Mr C had indicated he was a cautious investor.
Looking at the suitability letter from the time, it doesnt appear that there was any in depth
analysis or explanation of what income Mr C could have bought using the residual transfer
value after taking tax-free cash to buy an annuity. The SIPP illustration suggests he could
have brought an annuity paying £5,703 per year. Whist this provided a spouses pension, it
didnt provide for any increases in payment and so wasnt comparable to the pension
payable from the defined benefits scheme  that started at £4,100 per year. An annuity on acomparable basis would have been below the £4,100 per year. The TVAS suggests a figure
of £3,071, but that didnt necessarily reflect what was available on the open market at that
time. It doesnt appear to me that this option was explored in any great detail.
I accept that the adviser had discussions with Mr C about being risk averse or taking some
risk. And that the yield required to match the annuity figure would have been lower. But I
think looking at the overall picture, given Mr Cs cautious attitude to risk and that all Mr Cs
other pension was exposed to investment risk, I think that a blended approach of some
guaranteed pension (through the purchase of an annuity) and the remainder exposed to
investment risk was the suitable recommendation in the particular circumstances. Mr C could
have reduced the withdrawals he was taking from his other personal pension to offset the
guaranteed income. So this option provided some guarantees, spouses benefits, the ability
for Mr C to pay off the majority of his debts and I think was more closely aligned to his
attitude to risk.
However, having said all that, I think this is a moot point. We asked Mr Cs SIPP provider for
its current value  which is just over £135,000. Annuity rates have increased significantly
since late 2019 early 2020. A fund of £100,000 could currently buy Mr C an annuity of about
£6,800 (the same type of annuity as the £5,703). So significantly higher. Mr C could buy a
higher annuity that also provided for increases in payment compared to what he would have
been able to buy on that basis in January 2020. And taking into account the past annuity
payments Mr C would have received if it had bought an annuity around January 2020, he is
still currently in a better position financially.
In fact, it might be that Mr C is currently in a better position than he would have been had he
taken the defined benefits i.e. he can buy a comparable annuity, and taking past payments
into account. However, I say this for information purposes only, as I dont have exact figures.
As Ive said, I think the transfer away from the defined benefits scheme in itself was suitable
in any event, so this isnt material to my decision.
Overall therefore, Im not persuaded it would be appropriate to make an award to Mr C
because hes able to buy an annuity that puts him into a better position than if hed taken
maximum tax-free cash and bought an annuity at the time of the transfer. That position may
change in the future and its currently a choice for Mr C to make - whether he wants to swap
his flexible benefits and buy the guaranteed but less flexible benefits offered by an annuity.
But in the circumstances, I dont think its appropriate to award Mr C compensation.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I dont make an award to Mr C.
I asked Mr Cs representative and WPS to let me have any further evidence or arguments 
that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr Cs representatives didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
WPS said it was unclear about the part of the provisional decision where Id said I recognise 
that it was highly unlikely that the benefits from the personal pension in drawdown and on an 
ongoing basis would match the level of benefits from the defined benefits scheme given the 
investment return on the transfer value was 6.5%. And Mr C had indicated he was a cautious 
investor.
It said this appeared to reference use of drawdown going forwards but quoted a critical yield 
of 6.5%pa. It said this was the yield required if an annuity was purchased at Normal 
Retirement Date. The generic TVAS document showed the growth required to match scheme benefits using drawdown and which was minimal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision 
not to make an award to Mr C.
The firm is correct in pointing out that the critical yield is that required to purchase an 
annuity. So it provides an indication of the yield required on the transfer value to provide 
equivalent benefits of equal value at that time. I think WPS are referring to the cashflow 
analysis in the TVAS. But these growth figures arent comparable as they arent on a like for 
like basis. Even taking these lower figures into account, I think looking at the overall picture, 
given Mr Cs cautious attitude to risk and that all of Mr Cs other pension was exposed to 
investment risk, a blended approach of some guaranteed pension (through the purchase of 
an annuity) and the remainder exposed to investment risk was the suitable recommendation 
in the particular circumstances. But in any event, Im satisfied this isnt material to the 
outcome of my decision not to make an award to Mr C. 
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont make an award to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman