DRN-1752427
Complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a store card. 
Allianz Insurance Plc, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to Allianz in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 1993, at the same time as taking out a store card by post. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr C applied for his card by post, in his own time and without any involvement from a 
salesperson. His application form had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of the policys 
cost and purpose, giving a generalised recommendation that it was something useful to have 
 and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. It offered Mr C the choice to buy 
PPI by ticking a box, or to turn it down by leaving it blank. The box was ticked and Mr C 
wrote his name and date of birth below to confirm he wanted cover for himself. Then he 
signed the form to confirm his choices, and returned it by post.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Allianzs sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that Mr C was pressured or misled into buying PPI here. And the form did 
not say or imply that he had to have PPI  I think it made it clear it was an optional extra. So 
I think that Allianz made Mr C aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Allianz didnt give Mr C personalised advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if 
it was right for him. They did have to give Mr C enough information to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, Mr C chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And the policy had a significantly lower 
cost and higher benefit than comparable policies. Lastly, the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman