DRN-2432706
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited (formerly Legal and General) 
handled his claim under his home insurance policy following a flood at his property. 
For ease of reference, I will refer to Fairmead as L&G as this was the name of the insurer at 
the time of the claim. Any reference to L&G also includes their agents.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr Ss house was flooded and raw sewage entered his property. He reported 
the incident to L&G and they accepted the claim. They inspected the property and found the 
kitchen, living room and conservatory were affected. It was determined that the soft 
furnishings that had touched the water would be condemned and the hard furnishings would 
be restored.
Within a couple of days of the flood, drying equipment was installed and it was estimated the 
drying process would take up to 31 days to complete.
In July 2019, L&Gs agents attended in order to carry out further sanitation work underneath 
the property but they were unable to gain sufficient access in order to carry out the work. 
Mr S said an air brick was damaged in the process. At this time, he also noticed his floor tiles 
were beginning to crack due to the flood and he reported this further damage to L&G.
Following that visit, L&G told Mr S that a contractor would be appointed to inspect the 
property and provide a scope of work (a quote). However by the start of August 2019, Mr S 
hadnt heard from them. He expressed his concerns that with the exception of the drying 
process, no work had started at his property. L&G admitted there had been an error because 
they hadnt appointed a contractor as advised. They apologised and arrangements were 
made for one to attend Mr Ss property around 20 August 2019.
Following the contractors visit, at the start of September 2019 L&G made a cash settlement 
offer of around £13,190 for the building work. They said the contents part would be 
considered separately. Mr S wasnt happy with the amount. He said it failed to take into 
account the various items that had already been agreed to be paid for by L&G. He said the 
floor tiling alone was £3,600.
Mr S complained to L&G about the delays caused, the case settlement amount and the 
overall poor handling of the claim. He said due to the damage he was unable to stay at his 
property and he had great difficulty looking after his brother of whom he is a carer for. L&G 
accepted they had failed to manage his expectations, there had been avoidable delays, poor 
communication and the claim hadnt progressed as they wouldve expected. They 
apologised and said in order to progress matters, they would escalate it to a senior loss 
adjuster. They also paid £250 compensation to Mr S. 
In late October 2019, the settlement amount was reviewed and increased to around £17,000 
for the building repairs and around £7,800 for the replacement of the contents. L&G 
confirmed they would separately consider the electricity usage, contents storage and 
alternative accommodation for the period of the repairs. They also invited Mr S to provide 
quotes from his own contractors so a comparison could be made. Again, Mr S was unhappy 
with the cash settlement amount and he later forwarded his contractors quotes to L&G in 
November 2019.
Subsequently in late November 2019, L&G offered £38,856 to settle the claim which was 
accepted by Mr S. However this amount didnt include the electricity usage. This was later 
paid in January 2020 but Mr S was unhappy about the amount of time it had taken to remove 
the drying equipment from his property and receive this payment. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response to his complaint, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the case was upheld. They believed L&Gs failings had a 
significant impact on Mr Ss personal circumstances and recommended they pay a further 
£200 compensation. Mr S disagreed. He believed the amount of compensation should be 
significantly higher given the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
In December 2020, I issued a provisional decision and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although a number of issues have been 
raised, this decision addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made by both 
parties before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I intend to ask L&G to pay additional compensation to Mr S on top of the 
£250 compensation theyve already paid. Ill explain why.
At this point I must stress that such insurance claims can be lengthy to settle and 
unfortunately more often than not, there is a level of inconvenience that goes along with it. 
This is especially the case when it concerns flood damage at a property. Therefore I must 
consider whether the claim has been handled in line with what I would generally expect. 
However our services role isnt to punish the insurer, that is the role of the financial services 
regulator.
 
The relevant rules which apply to the handling of insurance claims can be found under 
ICOBS 8.1 and it says insurers must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
In this case L&G has already accepted they caused a delay in instructing a contractor and 
theyve paid £250 compensation for this error. Having considered the circumstances, I 
believe the compensation amount was fair so I wont consider this point further.
However since that time and despite L&Gs assurances that the claim would be appointed to 
a senior loss adjuster, there were further issues and delays which Ill focus on.
Ive carefully considered the timeline of events after the initial delay. Given the lack of 
progress, I can understand why Mr S felt he had no other alternative but to instruct his own 
contractors to provide quotes and to carry out some work. I believe this was reasonable 
given the circumstances. However L&G said delays in settling the claim were also caused by Mr S because he failed to provide quotes despite their requests for him to do so. They said 
this was necessary as he was reluctant to use their contractors. However I disagree. Ive 
read the numerous correspondence between both parties and around August 2019, L&G 
said they would arrange a contractor to provide a quote and Mr S could use this as a 
comparison to determine whether or not he wanted to instruct his own. L&G didnt provide 
the quote until September 2019.
When L&G made their first cash settlement amount in September 2019 for £13,190, I dont 
believe this shouldve been the starting point. I say this because it only concerned the 
buildings part and excluded the contents aspect of the claim. I wouldve expected the 
amount to include everything for Mr Ss consideration. 
Mr S declined the first two cash settlement amounts because it didnt include work or items 
that had previously been agreed and having seen the evidence, I believe it was reasonable 
for him to do so. This meant he had to spend further time explaining and providing evidence 
as to why it wasnt a fair figure. From the time of the first offer, it took almost two further 
months of discussions and negotiations between both parties for a settlement amount to be 
eventually agreed in November 2019. Where the insurer decides to make a cash settlement, 
I would expect it to be calculated fairly and promptly in order to settle the claim rather than 
entering a period of prolonged negotiations which is what happened here. There was a 
significant difference between the initial settlement amount and the eventual one that was 
agreed which demonstrates L&Gs proposed settlement amounts werent calculated fairly. 
Therefore I think its unfair for L&G to suggest Mr S was responsible for the further delays.
In such insurance claims, it isnt unreasonable for the policyholder to prove their losses. In 
this case Im satisfied Mr S spent a great amount of time and effort in doing so and providing 
the requested information such as an itemised list of prices for the damaged content items, 
quotes for the carpet and kitchen parts, etc. I believe he did as much as he could and in a 
timely manner. If there was to be any delay on his part, he made L&G aware in advance. But 
I dont consider any of these instances caused delays to the overall settlement of the claim. 
On the other hand, I found L&Gs communication was inadequate meaning Mr S had to 
continuously chase them. 
When L&G made their second settlement offer in October 2019, they said they would pay for 
the electricity usage during the drying process. Mr S said the equipment wasnt removed 
from his property until December 2019 and once he had submitted the electricity readings, it 
took around four weeks for it to be paid.
I believe it wouldve been reasonable to expect the equipment to have been removed shortly 
after the drying process came to an end in July 2019 and the electricity usage to be paid not 
long after that but this didnt happen until several months later. The reasons for these delays 
are unclear but I dont believe they were acceptable. 
Ive carefully considered the impact of the above mentioned failings by L&G on Mr S and his 
personal circumstances. He has explained that he is the carer for his brother who is 
dependent on him and Im sorry to hear he was poorly while the complaint has been ongoing 
at our service. 
Given the condition of his property, it is clear Mr S had limited use of his kitchen, living room 
and conservatory for a number of months. It is unclear from the claim notes whether L&G 
gave him the option of alternative accommodation but given Mr Ss personal circumstances, 
I can understand why he may have preferred to stay at home and be close to his brother.  In 
my opinion, such unique circumstances were even more reason why the claim shouldve 
been settled promptly and even prioritised. However there is no evidence this happened. Im sorry to hear Mr S experienced the unfortunate event of a flood at his property and the 
above mentioned failings by L&G further added to the stress and upset during this difficult 
time. Given the number of calls and correspondence, it is clear the lack of progress with the 
claim was a source of much frustration. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied L&G complied with industry standards, as 
set out in ICOBs, when settling Mr Ss claim. I believe their service was inadequate which 
led to significant trouble and upset to Mr S. For that reason, I intend to ask them to pay a 
further £650, above the £250 already paid. Meaning they must pay a total of £900 
compensation to settle Mr Ss complaint. 
 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr S and L&G were invited to respond to my provisional decision and both parties accepted 
my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put things right, 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
Pay a further £650 to Mr S for the trouble and upset caused;
If this amount is not paid within 28 days of acceptance of this final decision, they 
must pay 8% simple interest from the date of acceptance up to the date of 
settlement*. 
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman