DRN-3546360
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a claim 
on his home insurance policy. Reference to RSA will include those who acted on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Fs house suffered a water leak in a shower room in early August 2020. As water was 
leaking from behind some tiles, Mr F contacted RSA who told him to call an emergency 
plumber. Mr F arranged for a plumber to come who then fixed the leak. In order to do this, 
the plumber had to remove some tiles and a shower door which had been fitted in such a 
way to make its removal impossible without damaging it and other parts of the bathroom. Mr 
F paid the emergency plumber £115 for the work.
Mr F made a claim under his buildings policy. RSA asked Mr F to provide a quote for the 
work that needed doing. Mr F struggled with this as many trades were busy due to the 
impact of the covid lockdowns, but he managed to get a quotation for the work to RSA in 
early September 2020 for a total of £4,000.
RSA thought the quote was too high and asked Mr F for some clarification. Mr F answered 
RSAs questions and it appointed a loss adjuster who estimated the loss at around £1,900. It 
then appointed a contractor to do the work.
RSAs contractors were booked to commence the work in late April 2021 but didnt attend. 
The work was rebooked for mid-June 2021 but again, the contractors didnt attend. 
Mr F was unhappy about the delays with his claim so he complained to RSA and asked for a 
new contractor to be arranged as he wasnt happy that the existing one hadnt arrived twice. 
Around this time, RSA re-assessed the claim at a total reserve of £3,805.
RSA didnt send Mr F its final response to his complaint within eight weeks, so Mr F referred 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and upheld it. He said RSA caused 
unreasonable delays in handling Mr Fs claim. It hadnt kept him up to date with what it was 
doing and used contractors who hadnt turned up for various appointments. Mr F had to 
chase RSA repeatedly and these delays caused Mr F and his family significant trouble and 
upset as a result. 
He said RSA should handle Mr Fs claim as a priority and it should pay Mr F £400 
compensation. 
Mr F didnt agree that £400 was enough compensation and he asked for £1,000. Our 
investigator asked RSA whether it would agree with this amount, but it didnt respond.
As Mr F didnt agree with the compensation amount in the view, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
This has been a very lengthy claim of some 21 months which Im aware Mr F and his family 
have found very upsetting. 
From the evidence I have seen, Mr F has answered RSAs questions promptly and had 
chased up progress on the claim several times. But RSA do not seem to have engaged with 
Mr F about the claim, or his complaint, since he complained about its service in August 
2021. 
Customers like Mr F rely on their home insurance to put things right when they suffer an 
insured loss and I would expect a claim like his to be dealt with in a reasonable time. Mr F 
has said that he initially struggled to obtain quotes for the work that needed doing but 
managed to get one to RSA about a month after the leak happened. From them on, 
according to RSAs own claim timeline, all of the delays have happened because of RSAs 
processes and contractors. 
To wait several months for work to begin, have the contractor not arrive, and then have to 
wait another six weeks for another appointment is very poor service. Then the contractor 
didnt arrive for the second time causing Mr F to be very frustrated leading eventually to his 
complaint to RSA.
In total Mr F waited 21 months for his claim to be resolved. He has explained that medical 
issues in his family meant that the shower being out of use caused a significant issue. I can 
also see that RSA were aware of this but still didnt prioritise Mr Fs claim appropriately. 
Towards the end of this period Mr F kept this service up to date with errors being made by 
RSAs contractors which meant that the final resolution of his claim was delayed by a further 
three months.
RSA initially queried Mr Fs quote due to the amount being claimed and appointed its own 
loss adjuster. This part of the claim was handled fairly rapidly, but it then took several 
months to organise repairs and it seems to me that the only updates provided to Mr F were 
because he contacted RSA to ask for them. 
Ultimately, RSA set the claim amount as being £3,805 in September 2021, one year after it 
originally decided it would pay around £1,900. It seems to me that Mr Fs initial quote of 
£4,000 was accurate enough and that RSA should have agreed the claim at the time and 
asked Mr F to go ahead with the work. RSAs procedures probably required this initial quote 
to be checked and handled internally, but thats not Mr Fs responsibility and its unfair of 
RSA to have held up the claim for this long because of the way it chooses to handle claims.
It seems to me that the reasons behind this claim being delayed are entirely the fault of RSA 
and the service theyve given Mr F is well below what this service would say is fair and 
reasonable. 
Having established this, I must now calculate how much compensation I think Mr F is due. 
Mr F has asked for £1,000 and when I read how long he has had to wait for RSA to deal with 
his claim I am minded to agree. Mr F has also told this service about the impact on his family 
of not being able to use the shower for an extended time and I can understand his frustration 
and distress. Mr F was able to secure a quotation for the work within a month and has had to 
wait for a further 20 months for RSA to finally settle his claim. 
Because of these factors which have caused Mr F very significant inconvenience I propose 
that RSA pay him £1,000 compensation, plus it should refund the £115 he paid for the emergency plumber it told him to call.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA said it didnt have anything to add to provisional decision and Mr F accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RSA didnt have anything to add, and Mr F agreed with my provisional decision, my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay:
£1,000 for Mr Fs distress and inconvenience.
The £115 Mr F paid for the emergency plumber (if RSA hasnt already paid it). 
Interest at 8% simple on this amount should be added from the date Mr F paid it, to 
the date RSA make this payment*.
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.*
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman