DRN-4366815
The complaint
Mr J complained to Leeds Building Society (LBS) about the setting up of an online fixed rate 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), in particular his request for interest to be paid annually to 
his nominated bank account. 
 
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint and my provisional findings in my provisional 
decision, and here.
Mr J took an ISA with LBS online fixed at 3.95% interest for three years. Mr J said interest 
can be credited to the ISA or to another account, and he entered his bank account details for 
this purpose, but this wasnt shown in the online portal so he called LBS and was told it 
would be corrected. LBS mentioned a new ISA with 4.05% interest and Mr J arranged to 
close his ISA and transfer to the new ISA issue. 
The transfer was arranged, and Mr J nominated the interest to be paid to his bank account 
as per the ISA product terms. He said that the terms dont say that operating the account by 
branch or post prevents interest from being paid annually or externally and dont state 
interest will be compounded annually and added to final balance. And so Mr J said he 
expected interest to be paid annually to his bank account and LBS had acted in error.
The product states: Interest is calculated daily and paid annually on 31 March (commencing 
31 March 2024) and on maturity (31 March 2026). Interest can be credited to the account or 
transferred to another building society/bank account or to another account held with LBS.    
And further: The account can be operated in branch or by post. You will also be able to 
carry out some operations by telephone and online, where you have registered for online 
services.
Mr J said on several calls LBS said it couldn't add his bank for annual interest payments. He 
said he couldnt tolerate this as he needed to support his income. He said hed suffered 
enormous hurt and emotional distress by LBS refusing to act according to the ISA terms. Mr 
Js complaint to LBS wasnt upheld as LBS didn't consider his ISA as a true online account. 
But LBS subsequently added Mr Js bank account so annual interest could be paid and he 
said this was more or less right, though the professionalism he expected was lacking. He 
referred his complaint to our service seeking £350 for hurt and emotional distress, and £150 
for inconvenience and time taken complaining and £7.50 for phone calls. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said we cant tell LBS to 
change its process as we arent the industry regulator. He said the ISA terms explain that 
only some operations can be carried out online or by phone and this showed limited online 
functionality. He felt that LBS had ensured Mr J had the information he needed and meant 
LBS wasnt able to action Mr Js request at first, but has now done so. As to Mr Js request 
for compensation, he said we wouldnt make an award for raising a complaint as it isnt a 
regulated activity, and he was satisfied that LBS had dealt with Mr Js complaint promptly.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with this and said the investigator hadnt read his submissions and 
ignored the stress of potentially being unable to access his money on an annual basis due to 
highly conflicting information from LBS. Mr J requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
My provisional decision
I said that I intended to uphold the complaint in part and require Leeds Building Society to 
pay Mr J £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LBS hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Mr J said my provisional decision was 
insightful and fair and was pleased to note that he can raise a further complaint about his 
fixed rate ISA with LBS if it fails to pay interest due on 31 March 2024 as per the product 
terms and conditions.
Mr J noted that the terms of the ISA allowed an annual interest payment and being an online 
account linked to his bank account, logically there would be no other practical way to pay 
annual interest and so LBS shouldnt be advertising this product if it cant pay interest in 
accordance with the terms. Mr J requested a marker be placed on his account by LBS to 
alert staff in advance to pay interest due 31 March 2024-26. 
 
Having thought about Mr Js complaint again I remain of the view that it should be upheld in 
part and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, and below. 
Mr J wanted LBS to recognise that his request to credit interest to an external nominated 
bank account was within the terms of its ISA product and action this. He has given details of 
the time and effort he has spent trying to resolve this.  
LBS terms state that interest can be added to an ISA or to another nominated account. Mr J 
nominated his bank account for this purpose and was surprised to see from the online portal 
that this wasnt shown. He was also concerned that LBS intended to add the interest at the 
end of the three-year term and not annually and has explained his reasons why this wasnt 
acceptable. However, Im pleased that LBS has subsequently agreed to these 
arrangements. This resolves the main part of the complaint.
I can understand both why Mr J felt the terms of the ISA clearly set out his right to nominate 
an account, as this is what they say, and why LBS thought the terms showed the limitations 
of what was possible to amend online, by saying some operations can be carried out online. 
Balancing these two positions though causes me to think Mr J wasnt provided with guidance 
so clear that he ought to have understood that his request wasnt possible. Perhaps if LBSs 
terms stated what wasnt possible to achieve online this would have helped. In its response 
to Mr Js complaint LBS said it was launching a new system to address online limitations. 
Mr J said he spent a lot of time and energy grappling with LBSs poor systems and suffered 
enormous hurt and emotional distress. Im not sure that enormous hurt and emotional 
distress are commensurate with the events that unfolded here. However, its clear that Mr J 
spent time trying to resolve his ISA and received incomplete online information and some 
conflicting information on his calls with LBS. Having considered what the fair and reasonable 
response should be in the overall circumstances of the complaint, I remain of the view that 
compensation of £100 in respect of all aspects of his complaint is fair and reasonable. I understand Mr Js stress at potentially being unable to access my money on an annual 
basis. Our service has to consider complaints according to what has happened, and not 
what might have happened. Should Mr J discover that LBS has not paid his interest on the 
annual basis on which his ISA is now set up, he can bring a further complaint to LBS and 
subsequently our service. 
I hope this decision allows Mr J to move on emotionally from the unhappiness hes described 
in his complaint. And I hope LBS make the correct payment of interest in March 2024, as 
agreed, to avoid further problems.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold Mr Js complaint in part, and I require Leeds Building 
Society to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman