DRN-4289462
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that their home insurance claim was delayed by Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), and they felt the delay adversely impacted their ability to 
find alternative insurance cover at an affordable price.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim after intruders broke into their home. RSA asked them to 
provide information in relation to the incident, evidence of the damage caused and quotes to 
get things repaired. RSA advised Mr and Mrs M that some of the costs would be covered 
under the policy, and it advised them to carry on with arranging the repairs.
Later, RSA decided to deploy a loss adjuster to further validate and review the claim. Mr and 
Mrs M felt this shouldve happened at the start of the claim and felt it unnecessarily delayed 
the claim. They became distressed as it delayed settlement for the works that Mr and Mrs M 
had already carried out and paid for. Contractors were chasing Mr and Mrs M for payment, 
and they feel this has ruined their relationship with one of the service providers. Payment 
was made around two months after the claim was reported.
Mr and Mrs M said theyve spent the winter months living in a property which they felt was 
insecure as the window hadn't been fixed and they felt it had added to their heating bills. Mr 
and Mrs M said they were frightened and anxious due to the break in and were concerned 
about a vulnerable member of the family.
Mr and Mrs M said their claim remains open and they want it settled in full. He said the open 
status of their claim has limited their ability to get new insurance cover on the market, which 
they said led to their premiums increasing dramatically. Hes had to install extra security 
measures at a significant cost as a condition of being given cover. He wants this cost 
reimbursed.
RSA acknowledged there had been extensive delays. It said the claim wasnt properly 
recorded due to system issues and it said its contractor had provided incorrect information. 
As the service fell below its normal standards, RSA paid £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt see evidence the heating bills 
had increased, and he thought the £200 compensation paid was fair for the circumstances of 
the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to clarify what part of this complaint I can look at. I can only consider points that Mr 
and Mrs M have made to RSA and it has had chance to provide a response on. Having 
reviewed their complaint form and RSAs final response, I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have 
raised issue with the outcome / settlement of the claim. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I 
wont look at this aspect. If Mr and Mrs M wish to still raise issue with this, they can still do so 
with RSA. I will focus on the delay in the claim and the impact Mr and Mrs M has said this 
has had on the cost of their future premiums.
To consider this, Ive looked at the timeline of events. I can see that it took around two 
months or so from the point the claim was raised to when it was settled for the agreed 
costs. Any claim will cause disruption and inconvenience to the insured. Naturally this will 
be frustrating, but the insurer cant be held to account as its the incident itself that has 
caused the problem rather than the insurer.
However, on this occasion RSA has accepted there were avoidable delays  it was slow 
appointing a loss adjuster which delayed the approval of the ultimate settlement. I think a 
claim would be expected to last at least a month, so I think the avoidable delay is probably 
around a month, so, Ive considered the impact of this.
Mr and Mrs M were informed quickly that some of their costs were approved, and they 
should proceed with the work with their own contractors. The issue was the delay in 
receiving the actual settlement to allow payment of the contractors. The fact RSA approved 
these costs early gave Mr and Mrs M assurance that the work was covered. I appreciate the 
delay in settlement wouldve caused a cashflow issue but given the work could be completed 
I think this reduced the overall impact on them.
I think the delay in being able to pay the contractors wouldve been slightly embarrassing, 
but I think most reasonable trades people wouldve understood the situation had it been 
explained to them. So, whilst I can understand some frustration, I dont think it delayed the 
actual work been done. I can see Mr and Mrs M feel their heating bills have increased. I 
think this may have been the case, but I cant see the policy does cover this, so the only 
aspect I could see RSA been accountable for were for the month it delayed any work. 
However, I think the impact on heating bills was negligible and difficult to quantify, so Ill 
include any reimbursement of this as part of the overall compensation paid.
Mr and Mrs M said they tried to take out new cover on their home, but due to the open status 
of their claim they said many insurers wouldnt quote. They said those that did quote 
significantly increased the premiums. Mr and Mrs M went with an insurer who required extra 
security measures, so they think RSA should reimburse this cost.
Im not persuaded that the open status of the claim was the main reason Mr and Mrs Ms 
premiums increased. One insurer said, they would not be able to offer a quotation currently 
due to the recent claim. When anybody makes a claim its usual for premiums to increase, 
so I think the claim Mr and Mrs M made wouldve been the main reason for any change in 
premium. When taking out the new policy Mr and Mrs M wouldve been clear at that stage 
the claim had been approved and would be recorded against their record, which is what 
each insurer would want to know. I dont think Mr and Mrs M have proven sufficiently the 
delay directly caused the increase in premium. I think its more likely it was the claim itself. 
Likewise, I dont think the delay was the cause to Mr and Mrs M choosing to buy extra 
security measures. I think its likely the recent claim made the property a higher risk in the 
insurers eyes, and this measure was required to reduce its risk. I dont see why RSA should 
need to reimburse this money.
Therefore, in summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think the impact of the delays is 
significant. Therefore, I think the £200 compensation paid for distress and inconvenience is 
about right for the circumstances presented in this claim, including any heating impact.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman