DRN-3641059
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service received from Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as 
Oodle Car Finance (Oodle) when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a used car in October 
2019. 
Oodle provided a payment holiday to Mr B to cover his April, May and June 2020 payments 
as his finances were impacted by the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19). 
Mr B asked Oodle for more support when his finances were impacted again in December 
2020 as a result of covid-19, and a payment holiday was put in place for January and 
February 2021. 
Mr B was still affected by Covid-19 following this payment holiday, and Oodle agreed to 
reduced payments to assist him for April, May and June 2021, with the payment that he 
missed in March 2021 being added to the repayment of his payment holiday amounts 
following the end of the reduced payment period. Oodle said theyd send Mr B a direct debit 
mandate to reinstate the direct debit instruction for the reduced payment period. 
Mr B sent Oodle his bank details in March 2021 to set up a direct debit, but this didnt 
happen. 
The reduced payment for April 2021 wasnt made, and Oodle sent Mr B an email and text 
message about the missed payment. Mr B called Oodle and explained that itd been difficult 
to set up the direct debit and he wasnt refusing to make the payment. Oodle sent Mr B a 
document to sign electronically to allow the direct debit to be reinstated. 
In May 2021 Oodle sent my B an email to say his payment hadnt been made, and they 
hadnt received the document to set up the direct debit. The document was resent to Mr B to 
sign at the end of May 2021. 
In early June 2021 Mr B agreed with Oodle that he would send back the document for the 
direct debit, and he explained that he might need further assistance as his income was still 
affected. Mr B agreed to complete an income and expenditure assessment (I&E). 
Mr B sent the I&E to Oodle in late June 2021, and Oodle asked him to complete the 
electronic document to reinstate the direct debit. 
At the end of July 2021 Mr B told Oodle that hed started a new job, but his health was 
severely affected by covid-19. 
In early August 2021 Mr B told Oodle hed taken a new job to support his health. But as his 
salary would be reduced, he asked if there was a way to reduce his payments. Oodle told Mr 
B they didnt refinance outstanding amounts on agreements, but he could look at whether 
part exchanging his vehicle was an option. But this was subject to a check by Oodles 
underwriters, who ultimately refused to extend any further lending to Mr B. 
Mr B complained to Oodle in August 2021 about the handling of his account. He was 
unhappy with the decision to decline his request to part exchange the vehicle and asked for 
alternative arrangements to allow him to keep the vehicle. 
Oodle sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in September 2021. They said theyd 
provided the maximum level of support available under covid-19 measures, but this wasnt 
designed for long term financial difficulty, and so his account had been passed to the 
collections team to support him. They said Mr B had failed to meet the criteria for a part 
exchange as it wasnt responsible to offer him further lending at the time due to his 
circumstances. They paid Mr B £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by 
poor service. They said Mr B arrears were currently £1,695.28 and urged him to complete an 
I&E so that arrangements could be made.  
Mr B completed another I&E in September 2021 and agreed to reinstate his direct debit for 
his usual monthly payment amount, with a review being completed in two months time. 
Mr B complained to Oodle in December 2021. He said they hadnt recorded a conversation 
hed had with them in October 2021 explaining that hed been unable to return to work due to 
his ill health. 
Oodle sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in January 2022. They said theyd been 
unable to find any notes of a conversation in October 2021 but had now recorded his 
circumstances and passed his case to a specialist team to handle. They offered Mr B £25 
compensation for the poor service. 
Oodle sent Mr B an email outlining his options to end the agreement, including part 
exchange, private sale, early settlement, and voluntary termination of the agreement. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said Oodle 
had given him incorrect information and not returned his calls on a number of occasions. He 
said the arrears had built up due to Oodles errors, and so hed like them to be waived. 
Following referral of the complaint to this service, Oodle paid Mr B the £25 compensation 
theyd offered in January 2022 and offered an additional £125 compensation following 
further review. They said there had been errors on Mr Bs account due to their systems, and 
due to mishandling of his account. 
Our investigator gave her view that Oodle had supported Mr B during a period of financial 
difficulty in providing payment holidays and further forbearance arrangements in line with 
what our service would expect to see. She said there were occasions where Oodle provided 
poor service, but she thought the total of £225 compensation theyd paid to Mr B was fair, 
and she wouldnt ask them to waive the arrears as this is an outstanding balance under the 
agreement that Mr B agreed to pay. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said this small amount didnt cover the hours hed spent on the phone. 
He asked for a total of £1,500 compensation. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr B has asked Oodle to waive the arrears on his account because theyve been accrued as 
a result of Oodles mistakes. The agreement between Mr B and Oodle required him to make 
monthly payments of £311.04 for a total of 60 months. 
Im satisfied that the agreement requires Mr B to make these payments on time each month, 
and Mr Bs account is in arrears because he hasnt made some of these payments. Im 
satisfied that Mr B is liable to make these payments, and to repay the full sum in respect of 
the agreement. So, Im satisfied that Mr B owes these sums and Oodle dont need to waive 
the arrears on the agreement.  
Mr B did experience financial difficulty during the course of the agreement, particularly in 
respect of covid-19, and Im sorry to hear how unwell hes been. 
The FCA released specific guidance relating to motor finance agreements and covid-19 in 
April 2020. That guidance said: 
A firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so.
The FCA released further guidance in November 2020. That guidance said: 
Eligible customers seeking a first payment deferral, and those eligible customers who have 
previously accessed payment deferrals that totalled less than 6 months under this guidance, 
can seek a new payment deferral up to 31 March 2021.
There were also existing forbearance rules and guidance that businesses are expected to 
follow. These are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC), which can be found online. CONC 7.3.4 states, A firm must treat 
customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
Oodle provided Mr B with an initial three-month payment holiday in 2020, then an additional 
two-month payment holiday and a further three months reduced payments in 2021. In 
addition to this, Oodle agreed to pause the collection of Mr Bs arrears in late 2021, taking 
only his contractual monthly payment. 
So, Im satisfied that Oodle fairly treated Mr B in line with FCA requirements and guidance 
when he was in financial difficulty. 
Oodle have accepted that they provided poor service to Mr B, and theyve paid him a total of 
£225 compensation in recognition of this. Mr B has asked for £1,500. 
Ive thought carefully about the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B as a result of 
Oodles poor service. Im considering the additional inconvenience caused to Mr B above 
what might usually be experienced when in a position of financial difficulty and a long-term 
health condition. 
Oodle have admitted that there were occasions when Mr Bs agreed direct debit wasnt 
taken correctly due to their system errors, and occasions when he was given incorrect information by their agents. I appreciate that this was frustrating for Mr B. I can see that 
there were occasions when Mr B didnt contact Oodle, such as not returning the direct debit 
mandate for a number of months.   
All things considered, Im satisfied that, on balance, £225 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B, and Oodle should pay to Mr B the balance of this sum not 
already paid to him. 
Mr B has said hes had more recent problems with his account with Oodle. He may wish to 
raise this with Oodle directly. If he remains unhappy with their response, our service may be 
able to consider a new complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle must 
pay Mr B a total of £225 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman