DRN-2452748
The complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car 
has been returned but Mr B doesnt think the refund provided by MBFS is enough.
What happened
Mr B entered a HPA with MBFS to acquire a new car. He says that in the first week he 
noticed issues and contacted the dealer about these. There were delays in getting the car 
booked in and he says that after 14 weeks two on the four issues he had raised were 
repaired. He says he was told the dealer didnt have the software to diagnose the steering 
issue and he would be contacted about this. 
Mr B says that he waited a further two weeks and then contacted the dealer again and 
booked another appointment. However, after waiting eight weeks the appointment was 
cancelled and he had to wait a further seven weeks for a new appointment. He says the 
issues were diagnosed and repaired but on leaving the dealer they re-occurred. He called 
the dealer immediately and was told to rebook. 
Mr B says he had the car repaired on several occasions having to take time off work for the 
appointments. He says he had to pay £398.64 for new tyres which he feels should be 
refunded as he considered he needed to replace these due to the steering issue. After 
raising his complaint MBFS said Mr B could reject the car. Mr B initially accepted this offer 
but then referred his complaint to this service.
MBFS says that after receiving Mr Bs complaint it contacted the dealer regarding the cars 
repair history. It says that Mr B raised concerns about a crackling speaker, wheel alignment 
and the one touch windows not working and in July 2019, after the car had been driven 
4,900 miles repairs took place to rectify the crackling and window issue. It says that a road 
test took place and no tracking issues were identified. In June 2020, after Mr B had driven 
14,938 miles he raised concerns about the windows again and this was rectified. At this time 
the tracking was also identified as an issue and was corrected. Later that month the wheel 
alignment was rectified. The window then needed to be reprogrammed.
MBFS says that given the issues Mr B experienced it thought there were grounds for him to 
reject the car. In its final response letter, it offered to take Mr B out of his agreement and 
refund the unused portion of his deposit along with a 10% reduction in his instalments as a 
gesture of goodwill to reflect his loss of use and enjoyment. It says Mr B accepted its offer 
but thought more goodwill should be provided. It says that a further offer was made, and 
Mr B returned the car and was refunded £2,151,64.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She was satisfied that Mr Bs car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and thought rejection was the reasonable remedy to 
this. She thought the offer made by MBFS to refund 10% of Mr Bs rentals for the loss of 
enjoyment was fair. However, she said that the full amount of the deposit paid by Mr B 
should be refunded  not a portion of this. And Mr B should be refunded the amount he paid 
for the tyres.  
MBFS didnt accept our investigators view. It said it had acted within the regulations by only 
refunding a portion of Mr Bs deposit and that the wheel alignment issues were not due to 
manufacturing faults or other faults present at the point of supply and so it didnt accept that 
it should cover the costs of the new tyres. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr B acquired a new car thorough a HPA with MBFS. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) MBFS can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new when 
supplied, it is reasonable that Mr B would have expected it to be free from faults, 
including minor defects. This wasnt the case. Mr B raised issues shortly after 
acquisition and while these took time to be addressed due to issues with getting the 
car booked in, the job cards show that repairs were needed. Therefore, I accept the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Under the CRA 2015, if faults are identified within the first 30 days the consumer can 
have a short term right to reject. In this case Mr B noticed the issues within the first 
30 days but then repairs were agreed which took place outside of this timeframe. 
Had the repairs resolved all the issues then they would have been a reasonable 
remedy. Unfortunately, this wasnt the case and the issues that were repaired in July 
2019, re-occurred and Mr B continued to experience an issue with the cars tracking. 
Mr B had to return the car several times and the issues werent fully resolved. 
Therefore, I find it reasonable that when he raised his complaint with MBFS it said 
Mr B could reject the car.
In its final response, dated July 2020, MBFS said that Mr B could return the car and 
his HPA would be settled. It offered to refund Mr B the unutilised portion of his 
deposit based on the 34 months remaining on his HPA (£1,416.67) and pay him a 
goodwill gesture of 10% of the instalments he paid in recognition of the loss of use 
and loss of enjoyment he experienced. Between the date of this response and the 
car being collected Mr B paid a further instalment and MBFS agreed to an additional 
refund of £49. Mr B returned the car and was paid a total of £2,151.64. I find that this 
settlement goes some of the way to putting Mr B back in the position he would have 
been had he not experienced the issues with the car.
Mr B was able to make reasonable use of the car. I can see the job cards from June 
2020 show the mileage was over 15,000 miles. However, he had to return the car 
several times and I understand a courtesy car wasnt always provided. Mr B also 
experienced a loss of enjoyment due to the issues he experienced. Based on this I 
find MBFS refund of 10% of the instalments Mr B paid to reflect the loss of use and 
enjoyment was reasonable.
When a car is rejected, we would usually expect the car to be returned, the 
agreement settled with no further liability and the full deposit to be refunded. I 
understand the car was returned and the agreement settled, but MBFS only refunded 
part of the deposit amount. I note the comments MBFS has made about CRA 2015 
and the ability to apply a reduction to the refund for use when a car is subject to a final right to reject. However, Mr B paid an upfront deposit for the car of £2,000 under 
a HPA, not an advance rental for a hire agreement. When paying the deposit, he 
would have anticipated the HPA remaining in place for its term and then potentially 
paying the final option to purchase and taking ownership of the car. As the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality and was rejected he didnt have the benefit of his deposit 
payment. Mr B raised the issues with the car shortly after acquisition and I find in this 
case, our usual approach of saying a full refund of the deposit should be made, is 
fair.
Mr B paid for new tyres in June 2020. Mr B says these were needed due to the issue 
the car experienced with the steering which he identified in the first couple of weeks. 
MBFS says this cost was due to wear and tear. In this case, I find it fair that the cost 
of the new tyres is refunded. I say this because Mr B raised the issues of the car not 
tracking properly shortly after acquisition and this was investigated when the car was 
taken for repair in July 2019. While a fault wasnt confirmed at that time, this was 
later identified when the car was returned in June 2020. The job card from that time 
notes a wheel alignment had previously taken place, but the car was now pulling to 
the left worse. This supports the comments Mr B has made about the issue having 
been present over the months since it was first raised. Therefore, on balance I find it 
more likely than not that the car had an issue with its tracking from the point of 
supply.
Mr B has provided information from the dealer saying  I can only confirm that any 
alignment out on a vehicle would have a detrimental effect on tyre wear. I wouldnt be 
able to say categorically though that this was the case. It certainly is likely to have 
contributed though to any early or premature tyre wear. On balance, I accept there 
was an issue with how the car was driving from the start and that this will have had 
an effect on the tyres which more likely than not resulted in them needing replacing 
sooner than would otherwise have been the case. I also note that Mr B rejected the 
car shortly after the tyres were replaced and so didnt have the benefit of the new 
tyres. So, I find the fairest resolution to this issue is that the invoice Mr B has 
provided showing the cost of the replacement tyres is refunded along with interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should 
Ensure the agreement has ended with no further liability for Mr B and that any 
adverse information  to the extent this has been recorded - is removed from Mr Bs 
credit file;
Refund Mr B the additional deposit amount (his original deposit of £2,000 less the 
amount already refunded). 8% simple interest should also be applied on the full 
deposit refund calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
Reimburse Mr B the cost of having his tyres replaced in June 2020 along with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should take the action set out above in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman