DRN-4362253
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Better 
Borrow) provided to him. 
He says he shouldnt have been given the loan as he applied for it at a time when he was 
desperately struggling and had a poor credit rating.
Background
Better Borrow provided Mr M with a loan for £8,000.00 in May 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 28.9% and the total amount to be repaid of £14,274.29, which included interest fees and 
charges of £6,274.29, was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £237.90 and a final 
instalment £238.19.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Better Borrow had told us. He thought that 
Better Borrow hadnt treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Better Borrow needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Better Borrow needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Better Borrow says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. The credit checks showed Mr M had some 
existing debts in the forms of credit cards and a loan but this wasnt excessive in comparison 
to his income. 
In Better Borrows view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr M could afford to 
make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said he couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Better Borrow have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Better Borrow has provided the details of its credit 
searches. Better Borrow having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply rely on 
what Mr M said and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information he 
provided in his application. 
Better Borrow searches appear to show that Mr Ms existing commitments were relatively 
well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms debt total at the time of 
the applications was also reasonable in comparison to his income. And there isnt anything 
else obvious in the information gathered which leads me to think that further checks would 
have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Better Borrow obtained. For example, I note that 
Mr M says he was using 90% of the total existing credit available to him, rather than 78% 
and he was borrowing from family in order to meet his existing commitments. 
Im sorry to learn that Mr M has had difficulty making his payments. And I can see that hes 
gone to a lot of trouble to gather further evidence to support his case. I also acknowledge 
that if Better Borrow had all of the information that Mr M has now provided, Better Borrow 
might have reached a different answer here. 
But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of the lending here warranted 
obtaining bank statements or the rest of the information Mr M has provided. Particularly as 
Mr M could have used some of the funds from this loan to reduce his credit card balances.
Given this was a first loan, the funds going into Mr Ms account didnt contradict his declared 
income (Better Borrow cannot have been expected to know that Mr M was borrowing from 
family) and what was on the credit search, I dont think that a complete review of Mr Ms 
finances, which would effectively had to have happened for Better Borrow to have had this 
level of information, would have been proportionate.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr M is suggesting.  
As this is the case, I dont think that Better Borrow did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Better Borrow treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman