DRN-3950234
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC reduced his credit card limit unfairly. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
these reasons: 
The terms and conditions of Mr Es credit card account state that Lloyds can change 
his credit limit at any time. These terms were accepted when Mr E took out the card. 
A bank wont give any notice when they reduce a credit limit. This is because they 
dont want to risk customers spending credit they may not be able to repay. Lloyds 
wrote to Mr E on the same day as they applied the reduction. They also sent a text 
message. So I am satisfied they followed the correct process. 
They explained that they regularly review limits to check they are offering the right 
level of credit. As part of any review, they look at the information they hold about their 
customers, the account history, and any information credit reference agencies share 
with them. Based on their review, they found it may have been difficult for Mr E to 
repay the amount he was borrowing. 
Lloyds explained that their decision didnt indicate Mr E was a bad payer, but that a 
lower level of borrowing may have been suitable for him at that time. 
Mr E said he had more than enough to repay the borrowing as his outgoings were a 
lot less than his income. He also said he had never missed a credit card payment.
 Lloyds carried out a full financial review in January 2023 to see whether they could 
increase Mr Es limit. But due to adverse information showing on his credit file they 
were unable to do so. 
They said after six months of the adverse information being cleared, they can carry 
out another review. This would involve a credit search and would be subject to a new 
application. I find this to be fair and reasonable. 
If Mr E has any concerns about the information showing on his credit file, he would 
need to contact the credit reference agencies directly in order to dispute and 
potentially clear it.
I understand Mr Es frustrations, and while know this isnt the outcome he was hoping 
for, I hope I have clearly explained my reasoning on why Im not able to ask Lloyds to 
reinstate the previous limit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman