DRN-3627750
The complaint
Ms P complains about the service she received from Amtrust Europe Limited in relation to 
her claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI). 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Ms P had previously sought to pursue a 
claim against her neighbour. This was declined and Amtrust had told Ms P that she would 
need to source a supportive opinion from her own solicitor if she wanted them to further 
consider the claim. 
In 2020 Ms P submitted a new claim to Amtrust. Initially Amtrust thought it was the same 
issue that the previous claim had dealt with. But Ms P said that this related to different, new 
issues. As the new claim involved similar circumstances to the previous claim (a dispute with 
the same neighbour), Amtrust referred it back to the same panel solicitor M to seek their 
comments on the prospects of success and proportionality (requirements for cover under the 
policy). 
Ms P highlighted that shed previously made a complaint about M and thought they might 
have a conflict of interests. But she later agreed that they assess the prospects of her case 
(after having sought advice from her own solicitor B). M later said that they couldnt assist, 
and the claim was passed to a different panel solicitor T. T ultimately said that elements of 
Ms Ps claim pre-dated the policy and so werent covered. And other parts of it in isolation 
would not be proportionate to pursue. 
Ms P complained to Amtrust about the service shed received. Amtrust upheld the complaint 
in part. They accepted there had been some delays and that they could have checked 
sooner with M about a conflict. They said that whilst this wouldnt have impacted on the 
claim decision, Ms P would have had her answer sooner. They offered Ms P £150 
compensation for the impact of this. 
Ms P referred the complaint to our service and one of our Investigators thought Amtrust had 
done enough to put things right and that they didnt need to do more. Ms P disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
I considered the complaint and initially wasnt persuaded that the £150 adequately 
compensated Ms P. So I informally asked Amtrust to reconsider their position. Amtrust 
returned with an increased compensation offer of £350. Our Investigator put this to Ms P and 
asked if this resolved matters for her. Ms P declined to accept the offer as she still didnt feel 
this was a fair outcome. The complaint has therefore come back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree and accept that there were some avoidable delays and poor service in 
the overall handling of Ms Ps claim. So there is no merit in setting out the specific details of 
this again. All that remains to be decided is whether the increased offer of £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable. I think it is and Ill explain why. 
Amtrust arent responsible for the service provided by panel solicitors or the day to day 
management of the underlying legal claim. And for much of the time involved Amtrust did 
appropriately and pro-actively manage the claim. But Ms P had made clear to Amtrust that 
she didnt think M would be able to act for her. And I think Amtrust easily could have asked 
M about this sooner than they did. 
I agree that the service provided didnt impact on the claim decision reached. And Im not 
persuaded that Ms P incurred costs with B that it would be reasonable to ask Amtrust to 
meet. But I accept that Ms P was already under a great deal of stress whilst dealing with a 
long running neighbour dispute. And I think the service failings by Amtrust added to this at 
what was already a difficult time. 
There is a balance to be struck as it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Amtrust liable for all the 
distress and inconvenience Ms P felt. As Ive said above, they arent responsible for the 
actions of panel solicitors, nor for the behaviour of Ms Ps neighbour or the wider 
circumstances of the pandemic which featured for some of the duration of the claim. And in 
this context, I think the £350 compensation is fair for the impact of the service failings that 
Amtrust are responsible for in the time period relevant to this complaint (up until their 
complaint response dated 3 August 2021). 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay Ms P £350 compensation. If Ms P has already been paid 
the original £150 that was offered, then only a further £200 needs to be paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman