DRN-4177069
The complaint
Mrs W complains to MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) about a van it financed.
What happened
Mrs W was supplied a small combo van from MI on hire purchase in September 2020. 
However, about 12 months later she contacted MI to explain there had been serious 
mechanical issues picked up when it was taken in for an MOT/service and that she was 
advised the van needed a replacement engine. She complained to MI about the quality of 
the van.
MI would not offer to fix the van or accept it back. In summary, it noted:
 Faults can develop over long periods of time, and it has no control over this.
 There is a requirement for the driver to regularly service the vehicle so that the 
engine is not over stressed.
 Because Mrs W has had the car for over 6 months it will not pay for a repair.
 An independent inspection concluded that as the vehicle had covered 5019 miles the 
fault would not have been present at the point of sale.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He considered there were question marks over the 
durability of the van and concluded that it was not of satisfactory quality taking into account 
the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). He upheld the complaint and 
directed MI to take the car back, end the finance and pay a refund of rentals for loss of use 
plus interest. He also recommended that it pay Mrs W an amount for distress and 
inconvenience caused due to the faulty goods.
  
MI does not accept the findings of our investigator, so the matter has been passed to me. In 
summary, MI submits:
 That the independent inspection is by an industry recognised expert and concludes 
the fault would not have been present at the point of sale. 
 The van is a commercial vehicle with significant mileage (pre-dating the supply to 
Mrs W) and is cheaper than a new vehicle based on the age and mileage  it was not 
advertised as having a full-service history.
 Mrs W was in possession of the van for a significant time and had not had it serviced 
during this time.
 The report states that further dismantling is needed to ascertain the cause of the fault 
 under the CRA it is Mrs Ws responsibility to evidence that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of sale  so this falls to her to organise.
 The expert report suggests that the load in the van could have contributed to the 
failure  which has been dismissed entirely on the word of the consumer. The van 
was taken out by Mrs W, but it appears that it was used by her partner for work 
purposes. 
 It considers that 5,000 miles covered with the van being overloaded is the probable 
cause of the issue.
 It wants a review of the case taking into consideration the factual evidence provided 
by industry professionals. This should override the customers testimony.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W personally took out the finance with MI and her name is on the hire purchase 
agreement. However, Mrs W says her partner also used it to commute and transport his 
tools to the work site where he works as a contractor and that was always the intention 
(which the dealer was aware of). I want to note (in the interest of completeness) this could 
mean the CRA (referred to thus far) is not the relevant law here. However, because the 
equivalent legal provisions are broadly similar in any event I dont consider it warrants further 
scrutiny or changes the key considerations. With this in mind I will simply refer to the 
relevant law rather than the CRA specifically.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MI is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The relevant law here says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So it seems likely that in a case involving a van, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and 
the vehicles history.
The relevant law says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point here is MI supplied Mrs W with a second-hand vehicle. At the point of 
supply it was around 6 years old and had already travelled around 64,000 miles. So I 
consider it fair to conclude that a reasonable person would expect the van to have parts that 
have suffered more wear and tear and that the likelihood of outlay on maintenance will be 
higher than with a newer less road worn vehicle. However, I also note the van was about 
£6,000, and while this was less than a newer vehicle it is enough to create certain 
reasonable expectations around durability and freedom from certain defects at the point of 
supply.
The expert reportI have carefully considered what MI has said. I note that in particular it has relied on the 
findings of an expert to support its position. However, while I have given the expert report 
due consideration I find it inconclusive. The expert makes a generalised statement about 
commercial vehicles being known to have faults due to the way they have been driven or the 
load they have carried  but there is no evidence to support the finding that Mrs W or her 
partner have overloaded this particular van or driven it poorly. 
The expert also points to the fact that the vehicle has covered 5,019 miles since it was 
supplied to Mrs W to show the fault could not have been present at the point of sale. 
However, I note the expert:
Says further investigation will be required to determine the exact nature of the engine 
fault and how it has occurred; and
does not address the fact Mrs W has said the van had a ticking noise from an early 
stage; or
the account that the mechanic who looked at the car initially found mass carbon 
build-up /metal shavings in the filter and sump and had suggested the build-up would 
have been present over a long period of time (I note that the photo Mrs W provided to 
MI shows significant carbon build up); and
does not appear to discuss the expectations around durability in this situation based 
on the circumstances of sale (including the price paid) and what Mrs W has said 
about the particular use of the van while in her possession.
So although I appreciate MI got an expert inspection carried out  I dont consider it to be 
definitive in showing the engine failure is a result of reasonable wear and tear in these 
particular circumstances. 
I have turned my mind to the individual circumstances here. Mrs W has explained that the 
van is only used for commuting and not transporting heavy loads and I dont have cause to 
doubt that. I note the van is a small combo van  so it seems more likely than not that it was 
only being used to carry her partners tools to and from the work site rather than large loads. 
So overall, despite the speculation from the expert based on the evidence I have I dont think 
it fair and reasonable to conclude that Mrs W or her partner are responsible for overloading 
the van. Or that it was used for anything other than commuting to and from the work site.
There is also no persuasive evidence the engine issue has been caused by Mrs W or her 
partner failing to take care of the vehicle more generally, or that it has been driven while in 
her possession in such a way as to likely cause damage to the engine. And while I note Mrs 
W does not appear to have had the van serviced prior to discovery of the engine issue I note 
the expert has not presented persuasive evidence to show the van required servicing sooner 
than when Mrs W took it in to get serviced and that said action likely caused the engine 
failure. The van was last serviced in February 2020 and had covered less than 10,000 miles 
prior to it being taken in for the MOT/service where the engine failure was discovered. So it 
is arguable it wasnt overdue a service / that servicing had not been neglected during the 
time the van was in Mrs Ws possession.
I accept the mileage the van travelled while in Mrs Ws possession could point to it not being 
sold with a pre-existing fault. However, I also note Mrs W has indicated the van was ticking 
at an early stage and smelt of fumes. I also note she has said her mechanic explained the 
contamination and build up had been there likely prior to the sale and which had also caused 
excessive fumes. To reinforce this Mrs W had provided a photo to MI showing significant 
carbon build-up on the engine which indicates that it had not happened recently (and which the expert has not fully addressed). This could credibly suggest the underlying fault was 
present at the point of sale but was simply not picked up on until the car was taken in for the 
MOT and service.
MI has indicated Mrs W could have prevented the engine failure by having this looked into 
sooner. I dont think in this case it is fair to conclude that Mrs W or her partner would 
necessarily have considered this was something that needed urgent attention (for example 
they thought the fumes were because it was a painters van) nor is it clear to me that had 
they done so it would have prevented the need to ultimately replace the engine. So I dont 
think this is a fair reason for not upholding this complaint.
Even if I were to accept that the evidence points to the fault not being present at the point of 
sale  I do also have to consider the expectations around durability of the goods. There is an 
argument that buying a second-hand vehicle like this comes with a degree of acceptance 
that durability will be diminished. I have carefully considered this. But balanced against this I 
question whether the reasonable person would consider it acceptable that a major 
component like the engine would need replacing soon after the purchase of a vehicle of this 
age and mileage which also cost around £6,000. 
This is not a clear-cut case and I note there is still some uncertainty about the root cause of 
the engine failure. MI has indicated that had the issue come to light in the first six months it 
would have assisted with a repair but because it came to light about 12 months in it is Mrs 
Ws responsibility to get further information.
However, when considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I note that 
Mrs W has said the van was not getting a lot of use early on due to the issues around the 
Covid-19 pandemic. This seems plausible as shortly after buying it there were multiple 
lockdowns and restrictions. It appears that had the van been used as it normally would have 
(were it not for the pandemic) the engine issues are more likely to have come to light within 
the early months of ownership and been fully investigated with the help of MI. I have factored 
this into my overall findings here and in doing so I do not think it is fair to place further 
burden on Mrs W to pay for further investigations.
In deciding what is ultimately fair and reasonable I underline the following:
Despite its age the van cost around £6,000 and in the first year of use it was 
discovered that the engine requires replacing (and were it not for the pandemic would 
likely have come to light sooner) which is now probably going to cost the same as the 
van to replace.
Mrs W has recounted issues with the van since purchase which appear to be related 
to the discovery of the serious engine issues later  furthermore from photographic 
evidence and testimony there are unanswered questions around pre-existing issues 
with contamination and excessive deposits in the engine.
There is no evidence of misuse of the van and the nature of the vehicle along with 
Mrs Ws credible testimony would indicate that it isnt used for large loads.
The expert report is inconclusive and based on generalised statements which do not 
appear to be backed up with persuasive evidence of misuse or overloading.
While this case is not clear cut I decide matters on the balance of probabilities. Here I 
consider it fair to conclude that on balance the van was likely not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale either due to a pre-existing fault with the engine or because components had 
prematurely failed at a later stage. I also consider that directing MI to pay for an engine replacement at this stage is likely to be disproportionate as a remedy. So it appears fair to 
allow Mrs W to reject the van. 
Mrs W should pay for the fair use of the van up until it was no longer driven due to the 
serious engine issue (which I believe was around the start of October 2021). I dont know the 
exact date use was discontinued but it seems fair for MI to refund payments relating to use 
during October 2021 onwards. I also note that Mrs W paid a £500 upfront deposit to the 
dealership for the van  I consider it fair that this is refunded too in the circumstances.
Mrs W has shown repairs for the van were paid for in October 2021 which did not rectify the 
underlining issues with the engine and total £538.16. Mrs W has said these came from the 
joint financial account she shares with her partner and has provided evidence to support this. 
Overall, I am satisfied that these losses are as a result of the goods not being of satisfactory 
quality, and that Mrs W has not benefited from them in any way. Therefore, I think it is fair 
and reasonable if MI refunds her for this extra cost. 
Because of the circumstances here (and noting the involvement and impact on her partner 
who I cannot award compensation to as he is not an eligible complainant) I am not 
recommending that MI pays an additional amount to Mrs W for distress and inconvenience 
here. I also dont have persuasive information to show that MI acted particularly 
unreasonably in the way it handled the issue with the van  and I note it did arrange a report 
to try and explore matters.
I said the complaint should be upheld and set out the redress. In response Mrs W did not 
have anything further to add. MI did not respond by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given me cause to depart from my provisional findings. I still consider it fair 
to uphold this complaint for the same reasons given above.
Putting things right
MI should put things right in accordance with the redress direction below and taking into 
account my provisional findings (above) now forming part of my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited to:
 take back the van at no extra cost to Mrs W; 
 end the agreement and remove any adverse information from Mrs Ws credit file; 
 refund Mrs W the £500 deposit and any payments she made to the agreement 
relating to the rental period from (and including) October 2021 onwards; 
 refund Mrs W the cost of repairs being £538.16; and
 add 8% yearly simple interest to the refund of the deposit calculated from 1 October 
2021 and to other refunds calculated from date of payment to date of settlement.
If MI considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Mrs W a 
statement of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman