DRN-3114751
The complaint
Miss T complains that RCI Financial Services Limited didnt provide her with the service it 
should have after she asked about voluntarily terminating her hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Miss T entered into an agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited in 2014 to acquire a 
car. She contacted RCI Financial Services Limited in 2017 to ask about voluntarily 
terminating the agreement and handing back the car. Following the initial call, she says she 
experienced several issues and feels she has been mis-led and harassed.
Miss T says when she asked about voluntary termination she was told she would be sent a 
pack and that she needed to sign and return a slip. She did this but says she then found that 
she didnt need to sign the slip but instead just needed to inform RCI Financial Services 
Limited in writing that she wished to voluntarily terminate her agreement. She contacted RCI 
Financial Services Limited and says she was told the signed slip was needed. She was then 
told that her agreement had been terminated when she sent the original email saying she 
wished to terminate the agreement and that the pack was sent for information only. Miss T 
says she felt lied to about the voluntary termination process.
Miss T arranged for her car to be collected and an inspection took place. Damage was 
identified for which she was charged along with an excess mileage charge. Miss T disputed 
the charges and provided copies of invoices of works carried out. She says the charges 
were reduced but that they were then added to her credit file causing further issues. She 
also complains that her account was passed to a debt collection company while her dispute 
was outstanding causing her further stress.
Miss T say the experience of dealing with voluntary termination should have been straight 
forward but instead caused her months of stress and inconvenience. She feels she should 
be compensated because of this.
RCI Financial Services Limited issued a final response letter in April 2018. It said that it 
required a customers signature to confirm that they had agreed to a voluntary termination. It 
said by signing the initial agreement, Miss T had agreed to paying any damage or excess 
mileage charges and that the slip she signed confirmed this. It explained the guidelines it 
followed when assessing whether damage was considered fair wear and tear and said that it 
would waive certain charges as a gesture of goodwill but that charges for the windscreen, C 
Post L and B Post R remained (along with the alloy wheel charges that Miss T had agreed 
to). Following the issue of the final response letter, RCI Financial Services Limited also 
agreed to waive the excess mileage charge.
Miss T didnt think RCI Financial Services Limited had done enough to resolve her complaint 
and she referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She reviewed the remaining damage charges 
and thought they had been fairly applied.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that she was required to sign 
the voluntary termination slip when this wasnt a legal requirement. She also said that she 
was threatened with bailiffs even though she was co-operating with RCI Financial Services 
Limited and that she continued to dispute certain charges that had been applied.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
There was conflicting evidence about whether Miss T was told on the call that she 
had to sign the voluntary termination slip and return it in order for the process to start. 
I accepted that RCI Financial Services Limited needed a signed confirmation of 
Miss Ts intention to terminate the agreement. While this could have been provided in 
a different form, the slip was provided, and this was intended to make the process 
more straight forward. I understood why Miss T felt misled, but I didnt find that she 
was put under any pressure to sign the slip or to go ahead with the voluntary 
termination had she not wished to. The agreement Miss T signed in 2014 and 
accompanying documents set out that on termination she would be liable for any 
damage in excess of wear and tear and any excess mileage and I do not find that by 
signing the slip she was disadvantaged in any way.
Miss T was charged for damages and excess mileage. The excess mileage charge 
was waived, and certain damage charges were also waived. Miss T accepted the 
damage charges in relation to the alloy wheels. The outstanding disputed charges 
related to the windscreen, C Post L and B Post R.
The agreement Miss T signed in 2014 set out that:  In the event that the Goods are 
returned to us for any reason and you have failed to comply with your obligation to 
keep the Goods properly maintained and in good repair and condition, you will be 
responsible for the cost of any repairs necessary to put the Goods in good repair and 
condition. We consider, among other things, the guidelines provided by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) about what is considered 
reasonable wear and tear when assessing whether damage charges have been 
applied fairly.
Regarding the damage to the windscreen, our investigator thought this charge had 
been applied fairly as the damage appeared to be in the drivers sight line. Miss T 
said that the damage to the windscreen wasnt in the drivers sight line and so 
shouldnt be charged for. I looked at the information Miss T provided, and I 
appreciated the point she was making. However, I thought the damage was in the 
main part of the windscreen and there were multiple scratches visible on the 
photograph. On balance, I thought the amount of damage to the windscreen fell 
outside of acceptable wear and tear and therefore I didnt think this charge had been 
unfairly applied.
Considering B Post R, the photograph showed the damage and the metal was 
showing therefore I thought this fell outside of the guidelines and so I couldnt say 
this charge had been unfairly applied.
There were multiple areas of damage to C Post L - scratches and a dent. The 
guidelines state that dents (up to 10mm in diameter) are accepted providing there are 
no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Scratches up to 
25mm are acceptable so long as there is no bare metal showing. In this case, the paint surface on the dent had been broken and considering the other damage as 
well, I thought this charge had been fairly applied.
Overall, having looked at the photographs of the damage to Miss Ts car, I didnt find that I 
could say RCI Financial Services Limited has applied the disputed charges unfairly.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my conclusions in my provisional decision and as no new information was provided 
in response to this, my conclusions havent changed. That is, that the charges remaining 
after the excess mileage and certain damage charges had been waived had been fairly 
applied. I note Miss Ts concerns about making the repayment of the outstanding balance 
and would note that this should be discussed with RCI Financial Services Limited and we 
would expect it to treat Miss T positively if she is struggling to make the repayment and in 
need of a repayment plan.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against RCI Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman