DRN-1929062
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his request for a refund after he 
had a dispute with a tradesman. 
What happened
Mr K wanted to carry out improvements to his garden. He used an online directory to choose 
a tradesman who Ill refer to as L. Between July 2018 and May 2019 Mr K transferred a total 
of £9,750 to L in four separate payments. He made each transfer from his current account 
with Barclays by telephone banking. 
But Mr K told us that other than some preparatory groundwork, the work to his garden was 
never completed. He said his telephone and broadband lines and the facia to the side of his 
property were all damaged while the groundwork was being carried out. 
Mr K then asked Barclays to refund the payments hed made to L. But Barclays didnt do 
this. When Mr K complained to the bank, it told him it wouldnt be refunding the payments. 
So Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
One of investigators looked into this issue. Mr K told him Barclays had said there was money 
in Ls account - but the bank couldnt say if this was Mr Ks money or money genuinely 
belonging to L. Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. In summary, he 
said it was clear that there were insufficient funds in Ls account for Barclays to reverse the 
payments. 
Mr K didnt accept this. He repeated that Barclays had told him on the phone there were 
funds in Ls account, but the bank couldnt touch these as it didnt know if it was Mr Ks 
money or Ls genuine money. He didnt think it was fair that Barclays hadnt given him a 
refund. 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. I can see that Mr K made four 
separate payments to L over a ten-month period. He authorised all four payments using 
telephone banking. Barclays, as I would expect, followed Mr Ks instructions and made these 
payments to L. As the payments were made using telephone banking rather than a debit 
card, they didnt fall within the chargeback process run by the card schemes. 
I can see Mr K first told Barclays about his problems with L on 31 May 2019. This was just 
over three weeks after hed made the last of the transfers to Ls bank account, which was 
also held with Barclays. At this point I would expect Barclays to act fairly and reasonably in 
seeing what it could do to help Mr K. 
For his part, Mr K is adamant that Barclays told him there was money in Ls account, but the 
bank couldnt touch it as it couldnt tell if this was the money Mr K had transferred or if it was 
money genuinely belonging to L. I would note here that Barclays records, including the bank 
statements for L, dont support Mr Ks version of events. 
Barclays notes for 31 May 2019 indicate it told Mr K it would check if funds remained in Ls 
account and could be recovered but, as the payments had been made proactively, the bank 
couldnt guarantee a recall and it would have to rely on the relevant funds remaining with Ls 
account to enable a refund to be made. Nowhere in these notes does it say there were funds 
in Ls account, or that Barclays couldnt identify if this was the money Mr K transferred. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays has been unable to supply recordings of the calls between the 
bank and Mr K. I know hes said its strange how Barclays cant find these call recordings. 
But Im not satisfied the content of these calls in anyway affects the overall outcome of this 
complaint. 
I say this because Ive looked at the statements for Ls account. Mr K made the final transfer 
to L on 7 May 2019. I can see this being received into Ls account the same day. I can also 
see various payments, totalling more than Mr Ks transfer, leaving Ls account that day. This 
shows me Mr Ks money left Ls account the same day it was received. 
When Mr K got in touch with Barclays about this issue on 31 May 2019, Ls account was 
overdrawn. There was no money at all in the account for Barclays to recover for Mr K. So, 
irrespective of what the bank may or may not have told Mr K about what funds were in Ls 
account, Im satisfied that by the time he contacted Barclays about a refund, none of his 
money was left in Ls account. There was nothing left at all. 
I do appreciate the situation Mr K finds himself in and the upset hes been caused by L not 
carrying out the work Mr K paid for. But that doesnt mean Barclays has done anything 
wrong here. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt treated Mr K unfairly or 
unreasonably by not giving him a refund of the payments he made to L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
John Miles
Ombudsman