DRN-1912843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably by charging them 
an early repayment charge (ERC). They want the ERC refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a mortgage with TSB, which if repaid before 2026 meant theyd have to 
pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs F said that TSB agreed to waive the ERC if the mortgage was 
repaid early in July 2018 as it was unable to consider applications to borrow more money 
due to IT issues. It sent a letter saying that the deadline was 17 October 2018. Mr F next 
contacted TSB in October 2018 and it again promised to waive the ERC as it was still 
struggling. Mr F said no time limit was set. Mr and Mrs F didnt redeem the mortgage until 
May 2019. TSB refused to waive the ERC and included the charge in the redemption 
statement for the mortgage. Mr and Mrs F paid the ERC.
Mr and Mrs F complained to TSB. It said it was at fault and shouldve communicated better. 
It was correct in October 2018 to say that it would waive the ERC as it had agreed to do so 
until the 17th, but TSB had failed to tell Mr F the end date for the waiver of the ERC in the 
call. It offered £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and £50 for expenses. 
TSB refused to refund the ERC as it was entitled to the charge and six months had passed 
from the end of the waiver period. TSB said it was able to deal with applications from late 
November 2018 so Mr and Mrs F couldve potentially stayed with it.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be 
upheld. She pointed out that the letter in July 2018 told Mr and Mrs F if they couldnt 
complete by 17 October 2018 to contact it to discuss; Mr F did this and was told when the 
time comes to redeem, we will waive the fee. The investigator noted that TSB started to 
lend again in late November 2018 and decided to extend all waivers of ERC to 28 February 
2019, but this information wasnt given to Mr and Mrs F. She believed the remortgage to a 
new lender only happened because of the information TSB gave Mr F, and the ERC should 
be refunded with interest. The investigator said £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused was fair and reasonable.
TSB disagreed. It said Mr F told it in October 2018 the remortgage with the new lender could 
take up to another 8-10 weeks; it took about another seven months. TSB also said it 
suspected Mr and Mrs F didnt apply to the new lender until January 2019. The investigator 
pointed out the ERC waiver was until late February and no deadline was given to 
Mr and Mrs F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer accepted by Mr and Mrs F made it clear that if the mortgage was 
redeemed before 2026, theyd have to pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs F knew this and legally this 
is correct. But when they contacted TSB to talk about borrowing more money in July 2018, 
TSB explained that it wasnt able to deal with such applications and it understood that this 
might cause consumers to move to another lender. TSB confirmed in writing that it would 
waive the ERC until 17 October 2018, and asked Mr and Mrs F to contact it to discuss the 
matter further if they couldnt meet this deadline.
Mr F did this. Its the contents of the call that leads me to conclude that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to allow TSB to insist on keeping the ERC. Mr F explained why he was calling, 
and the member of staff made it clear that TSB would waive the ERC. He said when the 
time comes to redeem, we will waive the fee. Initially this service wasnt given the call 
recordings, and TSBs notes of the call said The customer was informed that it doesnt work 
like that and the fact he has started an application we will honour the waiver... WE said as he 
is going to remortgage shortly we will waive the ERC..
Unlike July, Mr F wasnt given a deadline. Internally, it seems TSB decided to extend the 
waiver and the final date selected was 28 February 2019. TSB was able to deal with 
applications for further borrowing from late November. None of this information was given to 
Mr F. From the call in October 2018, Mr F was told the waiver would remain and left with the 
impression that there was no deadline.
TSBs answer to this is that Mr F told it he thought the remortgage would take place in 8-10 
weeks. I have the benefit of seeing the evidence from Mr and Mrs F, including the notes of 
the new lender. They started discussions with the new lender in August 2018, and due to a 
series of events, werent able to progress the application for some time. The evidence 
supports the view that they approached the lender after being told by TSB of its IT problems. 
Those problems continued in October 2018 and Mr and Mrs F werent told to contact TSB 
again after a particular date, unlike the instructions given in July 2018.
Im satisfied that TSB failed to fairly and reasonably communicate with Mr and Mrs F and 
either tell Mr F in the call of October the deadline for the ERC waiver or to contact it again if 
matters remained uncompleted in 8-10 weeks time; I also think TSB shouldve contacted 
Mr and Mrs F and let know that it was lending again or at least notified them of the waiver 
end date of February 2019. Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs F proceeded with the new 
lender because of the misleading information from TSB. If TSB had updated Mr and Mrs F, 
perhaps they wouldve stayed with it, but TSB failed to do so.
I note that Mr and Mrs F chose to proceed with the redemption once they had the 
redemption statement. Arguably that was their choice. They couldve made an application to 
TSB. But given the costs paid to the new lender and the solicitor (Im not persuaded that the 
architects and building costs were wasted as these would be needed anyway), the 
misleading communications from TSB and the difficulties Mr and Mrs F had faced in the 
whole process, I think this is a case (due to the individual facts) where I dont think it would 
be reasonable or fair to expect Mr and Mrs F to abort the remortgage without any guarantee 
of success with TSB.
Putting things right
The ERC should be refunded with interest of 8% simple interest a year from the date of 
payment until the date of refund. £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused by TSBs 
failings in communication and the distress caused by the raised expectations should also be 
paid, if not already paid to Mr and Mrs F. I note Mr and Mrs F also have accepted this is a 
fair and reasonable resolution. £50 for expenses is also fair and reasonable due to call 
costs.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and TSB Bank plc should repaid the early 
repayment charge, together with interest as outlined above, together with £300 
compensation if not already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman