DRN-3853352
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds Bank) refusal to meet her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her husband, but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
everything as if Mrs B had said it or done it, even when it was in fact her representative who 
did.
I set out the background to Mrs Bs complaint in the provisional decision I issued on 15 
November 2022, but Ill set it out again below.
In 2021 Mrs Bs shower had stopped working correctly. Mrs B wanted to buy the same brand 
of shower again, therefore she contacted the showers manufacturer who I will call A to see 
if she could buy a replacement from it. The shower is in Mrs Bs marital home which she 
shares with her husband.
A indicated that it could retrofit a like-for-like replacement onto the existing pipework. Mrs B 
paid A to supply and fit the replacement shower. She paid A £327.99 using her Lloyds Bank 
credit card. 
As agreed, As workman came along and retrofitted the shower. But all did not go to plan, a 
week after the installation the shower began to leak. A made several attempts to repair the 
shower but this did not stop the leaking. In the end it capped the pipework that served the 
shower in an attempt to stem the leaks. Around a week after the final attempted repair Mrs B 
noticed that the shower tray was cracked. Mrs B blamed A for this. Mrs B says As workmen 
damaged the shower tray whilst trying to repair the shower. 
Mrs Bs position is that there has been a breach of contract by A. Specifically, she pointed 
out that by law there was a term implied into the contract with A that obliged it to do the 
installation work with reasonable skill and care. She says this term was breached by A. Mrs 
Bs reasoning is that if there was nothing wrong with the pre-existing pipework then A must 
have caused the problem(s) that led to the leak. Alternatively, if the existing pipework was 
already suspect then A should have recognised this and not gone ahead with the work. 
Either way, for these reasons, the installation work had not been done with reasonable skill 
and care. Mrs B contacted two third party firms and asked them to supply two separate 
quotes for remedial work. One quote was for £2,700 plus VAT the other for £3,338.72 
inclusive of VAT.
As position is the problem is the pre-existing pipework, which it is not responsible for. 
Nonetheless, purely as a goodwill gesture it offered to refund the £327.99. Further, it did not 
accept that its workmen had damaged the shower tray but purely as a goodwill gesture it 
offered £250 to replace it. It described the quotes Mrs B sent it for what she sees as 
remedial work as being extraordinary high value and made it clear it was not going to pay 
for the work in the quotes.
Dissatisfied, Mrs B complained to Lloyds Bank.
Lloyds Bank indicated that it had two options open to it to get her money back. It could have 
looked at a claim under Section 75 against itself or carried out a chargeback against A. 
Although it was only through the claim under Section 75 that it could also have reimbursed 
Mrs B for the consequential damages she was claiming as set out in the quotations. But it 
could only have done this should the claim for breach of contract under Section 75 have 
been successful in the first place.
According to Lloyds Bank there was no proper basis for a claim under Section 75. 
Specifically, it did not agree that there had been a breach of contract. It also pointed out that 
from its perspective, there was no valid chargeback reason either. It followed that Lloyds 
Bank did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B was unhappy with this outcome and complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mrs Bs complaint ought to be upheld.
Lloyds Bank appeared to accept our investigators recommendation, Mrs B did not. In brief, 
her response covered the following points. She seemed to suggest that it had been 
established that the leak was caused by the actions of As workmen. Specifically she said:
All the parties agree, that the problem in achieving a leak free installation was the 
misaligned hot and cold feeds to which the shower needed to be fitted. Attached email I think 
makes the point in regards to [A]. If the misaligned feeds already existed when..[As] plumber 
came to fit the new equivalent shower he had a professional decision to make as to whether 
to proceed. He proceeded, so in his professional opinion he could successfully connect to 
the existing pipework
In the alternative, Mrs B indicated that the pre-existing pipework had been in good order 
before A started work on the shower therefore the misaligned feeds had been caused by the 
work done by the first workman.
Moreover, Mrs Bs view was that A had accepted that it had caused the crack in the shower 
tray. Mrs B also indicated that the capping of the pipes caused additional damage. She did 
not agree that As offer went far enough and reiterated that from her perspective she was 
entitled to a settlement that was in line with the quotations shed obtained. She also asked 
for compensation for stress and inconvenience.
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
As I mentioned above I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Bs complaint. This is what I 
said about what Id decided and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B complains that she did not get what she paid for, she suggests that this is a breach of 
contract, and she looks to Lloyds Bank for a remedy.
Lloyds Bank does not agree that A did not deliver what it contracted to provide it follows that 
it does not agree there has been a breach of contract and therefore it declines to provide a 
remedy.
I recognise that one of Mrs Bs submissions is that A has accepted there has been a breach 
of contract and she suggested that this had been confirmed in an email from A. However, Ive looked at that email and nowhere in that does A mention it has breached the contract, 
indeed the opposite.
The crux of this complaint is whether A did not supply what it ought to have done and 
whether this was a breach of contract. The parties do not agree about this. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I mentioned above Lloyds Bank had two potential routes for returning Mrs Bs money to 
her. A claim against itself under Section 75 or a chargeback against A. Ill look at each in 
turn.
How Lloyds Bank responded when Mrs B complained about the contract it provided the 
finance for 
Mrs B relies on the rights she considers that she has under Section 75. Mrs B is correct to 
suggest that because she used her credit card to pay A she may have the protection 
provided by this provision.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs B has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against Lloyds Bank provided 
certain conditions are met.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Bs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mrs B pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts and operates differently from 
them.
It follows that if I found that there had been a breach of contract as Mrs B suggests I would 
find it fair and reasonable that Lloyds Bank take responsibility for this. I dont need to look 
into misrepresentation as Mrs B does not raise this as part of her complaint.
One of the qualifying conditions to bring a successful claim under Section 75 is that there 
must be a very particular relationship in place between Mrs B, Lloyds Bank and A. This 
relationship is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. For this relationship to exist, 
Mrs B would need to be the debtor, Lloyds Bank the creditor and A the supplier.
However, on the face of it this relationship is not in place because it was Mrs Bs husband 
not Mrs B who contracted with A based on the invoice for the supply of the service and 
goods. I note there is no [written] contract, or at least not one I have seen, therefore the 
invoice is the only contractual document Ive got.
At first glance, it looks like Mrs Bs husband is the sole debtor here as he appears to be the 
sole contracting party based on the invoice. That said, Im satisfied that in fact, the realities 
probably are, that Mrs B and her husband living together as they do in their marital home, 
share expenses in some way which suits them and that one operates as the agent for the 
other for the purposes of making contracts in relation to their joint home. On that basis I am 
satisfied that Mrs B was a contracting party too, in relation to the contract with A. It follows 
that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in this instance for the purposes of a 
claim under Section 75.
The next point is has there been a breach of contract? Where a consumer such as Mrs B 
makes a contract with a business for the supply of services and goods certain conditions are 
implied into the contract by law about the quality of those services and of those goods. In 
this complaint there is a mixed contract, that is one for the supply of a service, the installation of the shower, and goods, the shower. However, it appears that Mrs B is not 
complaining about the goods but the service. She is saying that the installation work fell 
below the standard she is entitled to expect. Therefore, I will focus on the implied term which 
applies to services. The law says, amongst other things, that the service delivered by A to 
Mrs B had to be delivered with reasonable skill and care.
Mrs Bs stance is that this implied term was breached because either a) A in the course of 
carrying out the work damaged the pre-existing pipework causing the leaks and or b) A 
should not have fitted the replacement shower to the pipework if it was not suitable because 
it was already damaged. In either case Mrs B suggest this is a breach of contract. Moreover, 
she suggests that As workmen damaged the shower tray in the course of the work which is 
either a) a further breach of contract because it would demonstrate that the work was not 
done with reasonable skill and care and or b) a consequential loss that flows from the earlier 
breaches of contract. Either way again she indicates she is entitled to compensation for this.
She adds that the capping off was not done properly i.e. with reasonable skill and care, and 
this too was a breach of contract which caused damage which ought to be remedied by 
Lloyds Bank.
As stance which Lloyds Bank appears to have adopted too (aside from the goodwill 
gestures) is that it was unable to successfully retrofit the shower because the pre-existing 
pipework was faulty. It is not responsible for this, Mrs B is. Moreover it does not accept its 
workmen broke the shower tray, but it was willing to make a payment for the replacement 
nonetheless but purely as a goodwill gesture. Ive not seen any response from it about the 
capping off point. In any event as it denies there has been any breach of contract its stance 
is it cannot be held to account for losses that flow from the breach, since there is no breach.
I think it is significant that the original shower had stopped working before A got involved. It 
seems to me that the reason that the shower had stopped working might have involved the 
condition of the pre-existing pipework. If the shower stopped working apparently due to wear 
and tear caused by the passage of time and through use. Then might the pipework too 
simply have reached the end of its working life? This possibility weakens Mrs Bs stance.
I do take on board that Mrs B tells us the pipework was not leaking before the installation. 
And it is implicit in what she is saying that the pre-existing pipework was in good working 
order before A came along. But I think the failure of the existing shower and the subsequent 
leaking of the pre-existing pipework are more likely to be linked. That is they both most likely 
failed at around the same time due to wear and tear. Rather than that the poor installation of 
the new shower caused prior to perfect pipework to leak. 
Further, Ive not seen anything that persuades me that in the course of fitting the new 
shower As workmen would likely have damaged the pre-existing pipework. On the contrary, 
from what Ive seen it was simply a case of a retrofit, that is installing the shower into pre-
existing pipework. That pipework being compatible with both the heritage shower that Mrs 
B had and the new shower that A supplied. I dont find it likely that such a seemingly 
straightforward and minimally invasive operation would have caused the damage Mrs B 
experienced.
In addition, there was a gap of a week between the installation of the shower and the leak. 
Which suggests to me that there was no causal link between the work and the leak. Mrs B 
has suggested it is as simple as she did not use the shower for a week and that is why she 
did not notice the leak. But she has put that forward as a notional possibility she has not told 
us that is what happened. And I find it difficult to place weight on a purely hypothetical 
scenario.
Alternatively, Mrs B suggests it was down to A to check the pre-existing pipework to make 
sure it was OK before installing the shower. But A makes it clear that it was not contracting 
on that basis. Rather it suggests the responsibility for this rests with the homeowner, as its 
role is limited to installation of the shower. Ive not seen the contract, but I think it is likely that the contract would contain this term. Moreover, I think the price that Mrs B paid for the 
supply and installation when compared to the quotes she got to deal with the pre-existing 
pipework (amongst other things) underlines that A was contracting with Mrs B on the limited 
basis that A suggests. It follows A did not breach its contract if it did not check out if the pre-
existing pipework was working correctly.
As to the shower tray. If it had been cracked by A in the course of carrying out the contract 
that might be a breach of contract. However, there was a gap of around a week between the 
visit of As workman and Mrs B complaining about this. If As workman had caused this crack 
Id have expected Mrs B to have noticed and to have complained sooner than she did. So on 
balance I dont think shes established a causal connection between anything A did and the 
crack in the shower tray. Even if I accepted, which I dont, that A caused the crack, Id not be 
satisfied that the remedy Mrs B suggests directly links to the loss suffered. I say this 
because it is unclear how the work to repair damage to a shower tray can run into the 
thousands of pounds in Mrs Bs quotes. I recognise that the quotes do not just cover the 
damage to the shower tray, but the costs of the remedy seem very out of synch with the 
actual loss namely a crack in a shower tray.
The capping off of the pipes serving the shower was meant to act as a temporary solution 
that seems to be undisputed. The main thrust of Mrs Bs complaint though has seemed to be 
about the work to install the shower not this stop-gap solution. She has not consistently 
mentioned it along with her other complaint points which impacts on the weight I feel able to 
give what she says about this. Moreover the state of the pipework before A started work has 
not been established and I cannot discount that this might have caused any damage Mrs B 
complains about now, In the circumstances, nothing Ive seen satisfies me that by simply 
capping the pipes that served the shower any damage was caused or that if it was caused 
this was down to A acting without reasonable skill and care.
As Ive not found that A most likely breached its contract with Mrs B it follows that her 
complaint points about consequential damages flowing from the breach now fall away. 
Therefore I need look at this point no further.
For all of these individual reasons I have no proper basis for saying that Lloyds Bank acted 
incorrectly in relation to this part of Mrs Bs complaint.
Chargeback
As Mrs B paid for the goods and services using her credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Lloyds Bank dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules and not the relative merits of a cardholder/ merchant dispute.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Lloyds Bank to ask for a payment 
Mrs B made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied or as described/misrepresented by the company Mrs B paid. A chargeback doesnt 
guarantee a refund. As bank could put forward a defence to any chargeback claim. If the 
chargeback is defended, Lloyds Bank could pursue the chargeback further and ultimately 
ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome.
However, in this instance Im not satisfied any chargeback attempt would have been 
successful. There was no valid chargeback reason as far as I can see. Moreover, in any 
event A had offered to refund the whole of the amount Mrs B paid it plus it added on an extra 
sum, as a goodwill gesture, for the shower tray. This offer by itself would have prevented any 
chargeback attempt from succeeding. In any event, the chargeback process would not have 
allowed Mrs B to reclaim any consequential losses.
For all of these individual reasons Ive no valid grounds for saying that Lloyds Bank acted 
incorrectly in relation to the chargeback.In summary, it follows from what Ive said above, I dont find that it is fair or reasonable to 
ask Lloyds Bank to take any further action.
My provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold the complaint.
I invited both Mrs B and Lloyds Bank to respond to my provisional decision as far as I am 
aware only Mrs B chose to respond.
Ill summarise Mrs Bs response. She sent us emails between herself and A discussing what 
had gone wrong from each of their perspectives and potential solutions.  She also sent us an 
inspection report dated November 2022. Although the report says the shower was inspected 
on 31 January 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs B for her response to the provisional decision.
The information she has sent in does not throw any further light on whether the initial 
installation was done with reasonable skill and care. Neither does it show that the 
subsequent attempt to fit the shower was not done with reasonable skill and care. Rather in 
relation to these points it merely repeats the arguments I already considered in detail in the 
provisional decision.
I can see that in the course of the correspondence A apologises at one point, for not coming 
back to Mrs B soon enough. Then it seems it stopped replying even though it said it would. 
But this is a customer service failing on the part of A, Lloyds Bank is not responsible for this, 
Ive no proper basis therefore to hold Lloyds Bank to account for this.
It is not clear why the experts report is dated November 2022, but the date of the inspection 
is noted as January 2022. It suggests that the report was not completed in January 2022 but 
was done from memory months later, and that impacts on the weight I feel able to give it. 
The report summary says:
To provide an inspection of the plumbing to the previously installedshowerprior to the 
removal of the bathroom for refurbishment.
This suggests to me that the expert also did the removal works to the bathroom. That being 
so I cannot treat this report as an independent experts report.
Even if I could rely on the report, as an independent experts report which I cannot, it focuses 
primarily on the capping off works blaming these for the leaks. However, according to Mrs 
Bs earlier stance the leaks started before the capping off so I find this new account 
inconsistent with her previous accounts, this inconsistency impacts on the weight I place on 
it.
The report says this about the crack in the shower tray by way of an observation:
It appeared that some damage may have been caused by the engineer to the tray, maybe 
dropping the shower valve onto it while trying to fit the valve and possibly covering the 
damage by leaving the replacement valve and packaging to cover it?
I dont find this observation phrased as a question to be a compelling reason for finding that 
A cracked the shower tray. Nor do I find anything else in the report to be persuasive on this 
point.
Ive not been persuaded by the information supplied in response to the provisional decision. 
It follows I have reached the same conclusions I reached in it, for the reasons set out in the 
provisional decision and in this final decision.My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman