DRN-3327093
The complaint
Ms S (on behalf of Mr Bs estate) complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund 
transactions on Mr Bs account that she says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. She is 
unhappy that TSB allowed a third party (Mr Bs carer) to make payments on Mr Bs account 
between roughly 2007 and 2019 that she said amounted to fraud. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 to explain why I thought the complaint of 
Mr Bs estate should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
give me. This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
Unfortunately, due to the time that has elapsed and Mr Bs passing, some information is not 
available but here is the background as I understand it from what has been provided. 
Mr B held a current account and a savings account with TSB. Ms S explained that prior to 
his death, Mr B had lived in a residential care facility because he was blind. He had to rely 
on care assistants to help with his day-to-day living. He had been completely housebound 
due to the decline of his eyesight from roughly February 2016 until he passed away in 
October 2019. 
When Mr B was in hospital in 2017, Ms S checked his post for him. She found bank 
statements and discovered that someone had carried out transactions on his account, and 
after further investigation she discovered this had gone on for many years. The account 
received his pension and benefits, which had been consistently spent. 
When Ms S initially contacted TSB in 2017, they said they couldnt discuss the relevant 
transactions with her. Ms S explained that she had to take Mr B into TSB when he was very 
unwell, and eventually had to get power of attorney in order to assist with these matters. She 
explained it had been very distressing for both of them, and that she had to provide food and 
everything he needed as he didnt have access to his account for some time. 
When TSB reviewed the matter after Ms S had received the relevant authority in 2018 they 
requested a list of the disputed transactions on the account. They said they needed this to 
properly investigate the matter further. They said that when looking at these kinds of 
complaints, the question of consent was key so they also needed to know: 
If and when Mr B gave consent for his card to be used
What the reason was for giving any consent for his card to be used
How much did he authorise the carer to transact for on each occasion 
When the authority ended. 
They were unclear as to what Mr B had or had not consented to on his account. So, whilst 
they didnt necessarily decline to refund disputed transactions in principle, they declined to 
refund any transactions without further information. So, the estate of Mr B came to our 
service. 
Ms S also contacted the police who have charged Mr Bs carer with fraud. They await trial 
which is currently scheduled later this year  and they have been charged with similar crimes 
against another resident of the residential care facility in which Mr B lived. Unfortunately, we 
have not been able to obtain a statement or transcript from the police interview of Mr B as 
they are concerned that sharing it before the trial could prejudice proceedings. 
Ive reviewed the file carefully and thoroughly to understand what information we have 
received in relation to which transactions are in dispute. In summary: 
Ms S said the police think the fraud went on for about 10 years but couldnt provide 
an exact or approximate start date. She provided the officers details to TSB and said 
for them to start by looking at anything over £50 as they looked fraudulent. She also 
suggested that any transactions that took place abroad, anything out of the area he 
resided in, and things that he wouldnt likely benefit from such as a television 
subscription package could be fraudulent.
Ms S also provided annotated bank statements across the period which denoted 
which transactions looked suspect  which I think is largely based on the criteria 
above but it wasnt always entirely clear. 
Ive thoroughly reviewed the evidence and testimony of Ms S on behalf of Mr Bs estate to try 
and understand Mr Bs personal and financial situation as well as possible. I have 
summarised this, as follows: 
Mr B hadnt always been completely blind  but during this time he could never see 
enough to read. Even before he lived in the residential care facility he had required a 
white stick. His eyesight problems progressed quickly to the point where he could 
see nothing from one eye and only colours from the other eye. His health 
deteriorated to the point that he was housebound after February 2016. 
Mr B had lived in a residential care facility with 24/7 care. He had carers who visited 
three or four times a day. He had one that he particularly liked who spent more time 
around him. Ms S wasnt aware of when the carer who has been charged with fraud 
was involved in looking after him.
With regard to his outgoings  Ms S paid weekly rent which included the care he 
received. Bills were communal so didnt come to much. He used to have a pay as 
you go mobile phone as he didnt make a lot of calls, but she had put him on a 
contract phone. So Ms S was shocked when she saw he had some very high phone 
bills during this period. Food wasnt provided by the residential care facility. His only 
other spending was every Christmas when he would buy a CD for her.
The only way Mr B could get around to get cash or food prior to being housebound 
would be by taxi due to his eyesight problems. He wouldnt have been able to do this 
alone. She wasnt sure how he completed day to day transactions such as shopping 
or food, particularly after he became housebound. When our investigator asked 
about this, Ms S said that she supposed he may have allowed someone to use his 
card to help him but she wasnt sure.
She explained hed been protective of his money so she didnt think hed hand over 
his card and PIN to a carer or anyone else. Ms S said that she thinks that Mr B at no 
time gave consent to anyone else to use his TSB account as he thought it was an old 
account with no money in it. Mr B thought he only had funds on another card which 
he kept next to him on a side table and was very protective of. She confirmed she 
didnt receive his statements whilst he was there. She said she thought the carer 
would have had the opportunity to take Mr Bs card, know his PIN and remove his 
statements without him knowing. She didnt find any statements in Mr Bs room when 
she looked.
TSBs records said that Ms S initially told TSB that he possibly could have shared his 
card and PIN with someone, but she told our service that he wouldnt have shared 
his card or PIN with anyone. She thought it was likely that the carer had used her position of trust to intercept Mr Bs post to obtain the card and PIN. She explained 
that she recalled Mr B had expressed that he hadnt given the carer permission to 
use his money during his testimony to the police. 
Ms S explained that due to Mr Bs sight problems, he wouldnt have been able to use 
an ATM for much of this period. 
Ms S didnt know which of the genuine transactions may have been completed by a 
carer at Mr Bs request. 
Mr B told his sister he didnt think his finances were safe. She said he thinks his CD 
player was missing because he said he couldnt listen to music. 
Ms S wasnt sure where Mr B stored his card when it wasnt in use. She said she 
didnt know if he kept is PIN anywhere, and thought he had relied on memory but that 
hed not been able to remember it by the time this all happened.
Our investigator looked into what happened and the information we had received from both 
parties. Unfortunately, by this time Mr B had passed away so they tried to work with Ms S to 
piece together what had happened. Our investigator understood that TSB hadnt known 
about Mr Bs vulnerabilities, and agreed that we werent able to specify which of the 
transactions were unauthorised on the evidence we had. They reviewed and analysed Mr 
Bs statements from 2007 until his death in 2019. They noted there wasnt always something 
suitably unusual in the transactions that Ms S had highlighted as fraudulent such that it was 
clear that they were indeed the fraudulent payments  nor was there a clear point when Mr 
Bs account spending spiked and continued to do so. But they did feel the account spending 
notably increased around April/May 2016. They noted it was also after this point that there 
were some international transactions  which the police and Ms S had highlighted as Mr B 
hadnt been abroad. So they recommended that TSB refund Mr Bs estate the difference 
between the monthly average spend between 2007 and 2016, and what was spent in the 
months from April/May 2016 until Mr B became aware of the fraud. 
TSB werent happy with our investigators recommendations. They reiterated that as our 
investigator had found, the difficulty in this complaint was that Ms S wasnt able to say which 
specific transactions were allegedly unauthorised. They said that they had asked for this 
detail when the matter was first raised with them, prior to Mr Bs death, but that it had not 
been forthcoming. They felt on balance it was likely Mr B had consented to a far higher 
number of transactions than our investigators suggested resolution takes into account 
because: 
From March 2016 Mr B had started to receive his pension, so his income increased 
and it was not unusual for him to spend what income he received. So, they didnt 
agree that April 2016 onwards looked particularly unusual. 
The spending across Mr Bs account history generally was that he spent what his 
income was, and mainly through cash withdrawals. This continued across the period 
from 2007 until the fraud was identified. 
They felt this demonstrated that he may well have consented to a higher proportion 
of the spend was likely to have been authorised with Mr Bs consent. So, they didnt 
feel that TSB should have been on notice that his spending was out of kilter with the 
account history. 
They said that Ms S had told them at the outset that Mr B gave the carer his card and 
PIN in order to carry out transactions on his behalf when he wasnt able to do these 
on his own. They said that this was a breach of their terms and conditions. So, they 
would consider Mr Bs estate liable for any unauthorised transactions by the carer 
due to negligence.
They said that as things stand, no finding has been made against the carer, If in due course they were to be found guilty, it is possible that they will be ordered to repay 
the estate fraudulent payments which could lead to double recovery. 
They questioned what evidence we had that Mr B was indeed housebound from 
2016. 
They didnt feel that they fell below the expected industry standards in safeguarding 
Mr Bs account. They werent aware of Mr Bs personal circumstances and had no 
reason to question the properly authenticated transactions. The estate had been 
unable to evidence which, if any, transactions were unauthorised. That is 
notwithstanding TSBs requests for this information whilst Mr B was still alive. They 
felt this failure to provide the information indicated that Mr B had not wished to 
pursue this issue. 
Ms S also disagreed with our investigators recommendations. She said she may not have 
been clear about what had happened previously but that she was adamant he wouldnt have 
shared his card and PIN with anyone. Mr B hadnt been out of his home. He hadnt realised 
the account was active  he had stopped using it. She wanted to defend him as he had been 
horrified when he found out the carer had done this, he had trusted them and found the 
matter devastating. He was vulnerable and this would have made it easy for the carer to 
dupe him. 
Because neither party agreed with our investigators recommendations, it has come to me to 
decide. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not currently 
minded to ask TSB to refund any transactions  Ill explain why. 
Id like to start by saying that I do believe that Mr B was the victim of a callous and cruel 
fraud. He was a vulnerable man who had to put his trust into others to provide care for him, 
and I was so sad to read of what he was put through. I can tell from the evidence we have 
and the many conversations Ms S has had with our service that this had a profound impact 
on not just Mr B, but Ms S as his sister too. The loss of Mr B and the continuing legal 
process no doubt continues to add to this distress for Ms S. So Id like to offer my 
condolences as well as my sympathy for this incredibly difficult ordeal. 
Generally, TSB can hold Mr Bs estate liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. I first need to 
look at whether the payments were authenticated. Authentication is the procedure which 
allows a bank to validate the use of a specific payment instrument and its security features. 
In this case, TSB havent been able to give us the technical evidence to show the 
authentication process took place due to the passage of time. However, on balance I am 
satisfied that proper authentication took place by chip and PIN for the cash withdrawals  
and by extension that it is likely proper authentication took place in the same way for point of 
sale transactions. I say this because the majority of transactions Ive been able to view from 
Mr Bs statements were cash withdrawals from UK cash machines. Transactions from UK 
cash machines require the chip to be read from the physical card, and the PIN code entered 
in order to be successful. There are also some transactions that are distance contracts  that 
is transactions made either online or over the phone. These would require the genuine card 
details and CVV to be processed, and I think it is likely these were used. 
But authentication alone is not enough to say that Mr Bs estate is liable for these 
transactions. So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that Mr B consented to these payments. And therein lies the difficulty. 
Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence to try and understand what, if any, 
consent Mr B had given the carer to use his card. To do this I have looked at the evidence and testimony of Ms S on behalf of Mr Bs estate to try and understand Mr Bs personal and 
financial situation as well as possible. Ive done this in order to try and gain an understanding 
about how the carer may have accessed his card and PIN. Having done so, I have identified 
a number of possible scenarios for how the carer may have been able to access Mr Bs card 
and PIN and make transactions on his account. Ill explore the most likely scenarios in turn. 
The first possible scenario is that Mr B allowed the carer to complete the transactions. He 
handed over his card and PIN, perhaps to help the carer that he liked with a small amount of 
money, but she abused her position of trust and completed excessive transactions. We have 
been told that Mr B did have a carer that he liked, and so I think there is a possibility that the 
carer could have used their position of trust to form a friendship with Mr B in order to exploit 
him financially. Alternatively, he knowingly handed over the card and PIN to her in order to 
assist him with his finances and they took more money for themselves. I do appreciate that 
Ms S said that he would have never done this, but this type of fraud on vulnerable people is 
unfortunately not unusual and would still meet the requirements for a charge of fraud. And 
he certainly would have required some assistance to withdraw money from what Ms S has 
told us about his vulnerability. But the relevant regulations say that where this is the case, 
payments can be considered authorised by Mr B even if he didnt know the extent of the 
transactions. This is because by informally asking someone to take cash out on your behalf, 
you are then bound by the acts of that third party. If Mr B had enabled his carer to appear as 
if they had his authority to make payment transactions, those transactions are considered 
authorised even where Mr B didnt ask his carer to make those payments, or didnt know that 
they had. So, if I were to find it was most likely that Mr B gave his carer his card and PIN for 
at least the first transaction and didnt end that authority by getting his card back or 
cancelling it and ordering a new one, it follows that the disputed transactions can be 
considered authorised even if it seemed clear Mr B didnt mean for his carer to take so much 
money from his account. So if this scenario happened, it would be likely that the estate of Mr 
B, not TSB, would be liable for the transactions made by the carer. 
Secondly Mr B could have at some point allowed the carer to use his card and PIN, perhaps 
for herself or in order to assist him with his finances, and they took the card again repeatedly 
without his knowledge whilst caring for him. This again could very plausibly be the case. Ms 
S has said that Mr B was unable to use cashpoints and was later housebound. If this 
scenario is what happened, it is likely that any transactions the carer made whilst Mr B had 
handed over the card would be considered authorised under the relevant regulations, even if 
the carer exceeded what Mr B had asked them to do, similar to what I have outlined in the 
previous scenario. But if the carer handed the card back to Mr B, the relevant regulations 
say that authority would end and so any transactions completed where the carer secretly 
took the card again would be considered unauthorised and therefore TSB would be 
considered liable in the first instance. However, due to the lack of testimony from Mr B about 
specific transactions  if this scenario was the one that happened it would be very difficult to 
know how often Mr B asked his carer to transact on his behalf in order to know which 
payments could be considered authorised or unauthorised. It would be impossible to say 
whether specific transactions were the carer withdrawing money on Mr Bs behalf, or doing 
so but then spending more than instructed, or whether they had stolen the card without Mr 
Bs knowledge. 
The final likely scenario I have considered is that the carer had been able to obtain Mr Bs 
card and PIN without his knowledge and completed the transactions without any consent to 
do so. The PIN could have been obtained from his home if it were recorded somewhere 
when she was meant to be caring for him, or perhaps from observing the PIN being entered  
when she took him to a cashpoint at some point. This is what Ms S said has happened and I 
do agree it is highly possible. If this scenario was what happened, then the relevant 
regulations would say that all of the transactions would be considered unauthorised and TSB 
would be liable for them. Though again, without a clearer idea of which transactions were 
completed by her, it is hard to calculate the total loss that TSB would be liable for. I understand that Ms Bs testimony is that he didnt use this card as he thought the account 
was empty  but I dont know when this is from to calculate the loss. And I do think it is likely 
he had some awareness of money being in this account as he was receiving income into the 
account. 
Having considered all of these scenarios and all the evidence we have on file, I dont think 
there is a fair and reasonable way to calculate any possible redress owed by TSB. I know 
this will come as a huge disappointment to Ms S  and I want to reiterate that I do believe Mr 
B was the victim of a cruel fraud by someone he had to trust. But the problem I have, as 
outlined in the three scenarios, is that all of these scenarios could meet the specific 
requirements for a charge of fraud. Further to this, all of these scenarios have evidence to 
suggest they could have likely been what happened. But it would be difficult to say which 
was most likely, and without testimony from Mr B regarding what consent he gave to the 
carer, when any consent was given, and when that consent ended the difference in the 
possible redress is anywhere between all transactions over a roughly ten year period, and 
TSB being liable for no refund at all. So I am very sorry to say, on the evidence that I have at 
the moment I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to refund these transactions as it is 
simply not possible to understand what refund, if any, is owed.   
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB didnt raise any further points after my provisional decision. But shortly after my 
provisional decision, Ms S got in touch on behalf of Mr Bs estate to notify our service that 
the carer had died before the trial took place. Given that the police no doubt had further 
information about what went on, including interviews with Mr B giving his account of what 
happened, we agreed that this information could be important to the case. We approached 
the police, and despite chasing them over many months we havent had any further 
information from them. They did explain that they had severe backlogs but couldnt say when 
we might receive the information. So, we continued to wait for a further few months  as we 
know how important this matter is to Ms S and was to her brother  but unfortunately no 
further information was forthcoming from the police. We wrote to Ms S and let her know that 
I would need to proceed with my decision  it had already been many months since the 
provisional decision expired, and we had done what we could to assist with getting further 
evidence from the police, to no avail. Unfortunately, we cannot keep cases open indefinitely 
and with no clear indication of if or when we may receive further information, I must make a 
decision on this matter. Ms S submitted a statement for my consideration. Ill summarise 
what she said to me. 
Ms S said she wasnt happy with my provisional findings. In summary, she said: 
Mr B would have started receiving his pension in 2010 not 2016, so it must have 
been paid out at the post office from 2010  2016. She believed this was the money 
Mr B received, and all he thought he had so this would be what he lived on. She said 
he didnt even know about the TSB card  so he couldnt have given anyone consent 
to use it. 
He wore a pendant around his neck for in case he needed care/assistance. He went 
to the flat in the care facility after he had a stroke which left him with disabilities, 
damaging one side of his body. He was vulnerable, and on meeting him you couldnt 
fail to see this. 
He lived a very basic life; his only pleasure was going to a local charity coffee shop in a taxi about once a week. As his health declined he was assisted on both ends of the 
journey to the coffee shop. He used to go the Post Office on the same day, to get his 
pension money out. 
Ms S explained she did take a stack of highlighted statements into a TSB branch 
which set out the transactions which Mr B didnt make or otherwise authorise. She 
said she also gave them to police who said they thought all the disputed transactions 
were suspect. She had no formal response from TSB after handing them the 
highlighted statements. She explained that someone had come over to her and said 
they were an assistant manager and that he would not be getting anything back as 
its his fault hes given out his card and PIN and to come back when someone has 
been charged, in an unfriendly way. At this point they hadnt seen or spoken to Mr B. 
She said she never said to TSB that he let someone use his card and PIN, and that 
this is a complete lie. She would not have said this as she doesnt believe it to be 
true. 
Ms S said the police officer in charge of the investigation had explained that the card 
could be easily stolen as the carer had access to Mr Bs room for work. He gave two 
interviews to the police and said he said he never gave permission to the carer to use 
his card. 
I want to thank Ms S for sending in her further statement detailing what she recalls of what 
happened at the time. I can tell from what she says that this, understandably, continues to 
cause her great distress. Mr B was clearly a vulnerable person, and it fills me with sadness 
that someone could take advantage of someone they are meant to be caring for. 
It is truly unfortunate that weve not been able to get any further detailed evidence from the 
police  and I am afraid to say I still dont think on balance we have enough to conclude that 
it would be fair to ask TSB to refund Mr Bs estate. Ill explain why. 
I think it is likely Mr B was aware of this account  the account does receive an income and it 
seems likely he would have been aware of this. This is particularly so from 2016 when his 
pension started being sent to the account  and I cant see how it would have started being 
sent to his TSB account if he hadnt previously known about it. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I do not doubt that Mr B was the victim of a cruel 
and callous fraudster who took advantage of him at his most vulnerable time. But I still think 
it is possible that any of the scenarios that I outlined in my provisional decision could have 
been what happened. I know Ms S disagrees, and says that he absolutely would not have 
given his card and PIN to anyone at any time  but am not persuaded that there is enough 
evidence to find conclusively that he never did. This is not to say I am finding that he 
definitely did this either  simply that I cannot reasonably conclude which of the scenarios 
was most likely to a sufficient evidential standard. Ive already outlined what this means in 
terms of the relevant rules and regulations  and I remain of the opinion that with such 
uncertainty around what happened, it would not be fair and reasonable to ask TSB to refund 
the disputed transactions. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms S, I know she has put a lot of time and energy into this complaint 
and will be unhappy with this answer.
My final decision
My final decision is that there is not enough evidence to fairly and reasonably ask TSB to 
refund any of the disputed transactions. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman