DRN-3709455
The complaint
Ms G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc has treated her unfairly by 
refusing to switch her mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only.
To settle the complaint Ms G would like NatWest to transfer the mortgage onto interest-only 
or provide a payment holiday on a temporary basis. Alternatively, Ms G would like a 
reduction of interest backdated to when the Standard Variable Rate (SVR) was applied.
Ms G is represented in the complaint by an advice agency, but for the sake of clarity, I will 
refer to Ms G throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence,  
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms G being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 31 July 2019 Ms G took out a mortgage with Nat West. This is in the joint names of Ms G 
and her husband, Mr G, from whom she is now separated and is in the process of divorcing. 
I see from what shes told us that Ms G has a number of health issues, and is considered 
vulnerable. 
Ms G contacted NatWest in early 2021 to explain that she and Mr G were separated and that 
shed been made redundant. NatWest granted a six-month payment holiday starting in 
March 2021, which ended in September 2021.
Ms G also asked if it would be possible to switch the mortgage to interest-only once the 
payment holiday ended. NatWest considered this, but wasnt able to agree. Ms G didnt think 
this was fair and complained to NatWest. Ms G also wanted the bank to offer her a new 
interest rate product, as the mortgage was now on SVR. The bank didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Ms G brought it to our service, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. 
The investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unreasonably. He noted that NatWest had 
offered a payment plan in August 2021, but Ms G had declined this because of the potential 
impact on her credit file. The investigator noted that making material changes to the 
mortgage contract affected all parties and so it wasnt unreasonable for NatWest to ensure 
that all parties agreed to any changes. But because Ms G didnt want a reduced payment 
plan, there were limited options available.
The investigator was satisfied NatWest had taken Ms Gs vulnerabilities into consideration, 
but overall he thought NatWest had done its best to help Ms G, within the scope of the 
mortgage contract and the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(MCOB).
Ms G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what shes told us that this complaint arises from very unhappy 
circumstances, and I have considerable sympathy for the situation Ms G is in. I will not 
breach her privacy by disclosing what shes told us about her personal circumstances, but I 
acknowledge this has been a very difficult time for her. However, I must put aside my natural 
feelings of empathy for her, and reach my decision impartially, based on the evidence.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
MCOB sets out what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in financial difficulty. A 
lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Ive looked at what Ms G has told us. It seems she has accepted that the property will need 
to be sold as part of the divorce settlement, but she is waiting for the court to determine the 
equity share she will receive. I think that is a reasonable stance for Ms G to take, because it 
is possible she will be entitled to more than 50% of the equity. However, if Mr G doesnt 
agree, then this may well be a protracted process, which may take a considerable time to be 
resolved. So although I acknowledge Ms Gs situation, I cant see that there is a definite 
point at which her financial situation will be resolved. 
A switch of the mortgage to interest-only, even on a temporary basis, would not, in my 
opinion, make a significant difference to this  because there is at present no end date when 
the situation might change. So notwithstanding that Mr G has consented to the mortgage 
being switched to interest-only, Im not persuaded NatWest is under any obligation to do so, 
either on a temporary or long-term basis. Putting the mortgage onto interest-only means the 
mortgage balance doesnt reduce. In addition, if her circumstances change and it transpires 
that the property is not to be sold as part of the divorce settlement, then there would be no 
repayment vehicle for the mortgage. So, taking all this into account, I dont think the bank 
has acted unreasonably.
The mortgage is now on SVR, and Ms G would like to put another interest-rate product in 
place. Generally, a new fixed rate product would come with an early repayment charge 
(ERC), which means that if the mortgage is repaid within the fixed rate period, NatWest 
would be entitled to be paid an ERC, generally a percentage of the mortgage balance. In 
addition, if there is a fee to pay for a new interest rate product, this is often added to the 
mortgage balance, increasing the debt.In Ms Gs circumstances, where there is an intended sale of the property at some point in 
the foreseeable future, switching the mortgage onto a new interest rate product would be 
more expensive, because the ERC would increase the balance owed on the mortgage. That 
is why I think it is reasonable for NatWest to ask for the signatures of both parties to the 
mortgage before putting a new product in place. 
However, if NatWest has an interest rate product that has a lower rate, that has no product 
fee nor any ERC, then I think it should consider whether to allow Ms G to switch to that 
product without Mr Gs signature. There would be no detriment to him in NatWest changing 
the interest rate on the mortgage if there is no fee or ERC arising.
I think NatWest has given careful consideration to Ms Gs circumstances, including her 
vulnerabilities, and has provided the support I would expect the bank to give. But NatWest 
isnt required to switch a mortgage to interest-only in every case, and it has to look at each 
case on its individual circumstances. 
I can understand why Ms G doesnt want a payment arrangement that would affect her (and 
Mr Gs) credit files. But given that a switch to interest-only isnt feasible, for the reasons Ive 
given above, I think there are very limited options available to Ms G. 
In all the circumstances, Im unable to find that NatWest has treated Ms G unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman