DRN-2725787
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund £75,000 she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam. 
What happened
What Ms M says
Ms M says she received an insurance payment of £150,778.75 on 1 October 2018 following 
a cancer diagnosis. The insurer wasnt part of the Lloyds banking group. Her cousin 
recommended an investment opportunity to her which appealed to Ms M, as she was keen 
to secure her childrens future. Her cousin explained that she knew the person who could 
arrange the investment, which involved paying money in to county court funds for a five-year 
period and receiving a good rate of return. 
Ms M made three investment payments which are set out in the table below. The first two 
were to the same payee and the third was to a different payee.
Date Amount Method
15/01/19 £25,000 Online banking
16/01/19 £25,000 Online banking
08/04/19 £25,000 Mobile banking
Total £75,000
Ms M had no direct contact with the individual who was investing her funds. All 
communication, including details of the investment, how payment was to be made and 
statements were sent to Ms M by her cousin. 
When Ms Ms cousin could no longer get in contact with the individual who was supposed to 
be investing Ms Ms money, she found out that Ms M had been scammed. Ms M reported 
the scam to Lloyds on 25 March 2020.
What Lloyds say
Lloyds said it was satisfied Ms M made the payments, which were in keeping with the type 
and value of previous transactions made by Ms M. Lloyds went on to discuss the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). It said it wasnt refunding Ms M under the Code 
because she ignored an effective warning and didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
she was buying legitimate goods or services and was grossly negligent. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Ms Ms complaint didnt uphold it. She said that the 
payments Ms M made werent unusual or suspicious in appearance given Ms Ms normal 
account and payment history in the period before it. Ms M had made larger payments shortly 
before the scam transactions, had made faster payments before and set up new payees 
previously. In addition, the account balance remained high, and Ms M received warnings 
from Lloyds. And as Lloyds wasnt aware that Ms M was having chemotherapy treatment at 
the time it couldnt provide additional support. The investigator went on to say that even if 
Lloyds had intervened further, she didnt think the scam payments would have been 
prevented as Ms M made an informed decision based on the documentation provided to her 
and endorsed by her cousin.
Ms M wasnt happy with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision, so her complaint has been passed to me to consider. She said she didnt recollect 
seeing any warnings before making the payments and believed the larger transactions shed 
made were to accounts in her name. Ms M commented that the outcome reached by the 
investigator was devastating to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.In its final decision letter Lloyds referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) but this doesnt apply to this case, as it came in to effect in May 
2019 and relates to payments made after that. So I will not be considering whether Ms 
M ignored an effective warning or had a reasonable basis to believe she was paying 
for legitimate goods or services as these relate to the CRM Code. 
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably in Ms Ms case?
Im sorry Ms M has had to contact us in these circumstances - I cant begin to imagine the 
impact of losing such a significant amount of money at a really difficult time for Ms M. I 
accept Ms M has been the victim of a cruel scam, but I need to decide if Lloyds did enough 
to protect her from the loss she suffered and what ought to be done to put things right if it 
didnt. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything further. I understand 
that Im delivering a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Ms M that Ive carefully 
considered her complaint before reaching this decision.
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Ms M made were out of character and unusual. Having 
reviewed Ms Ms bank statements for the twelve-month period before these scam 
transactions I dont consider the payments Ms M made were out of character and so I 
consider Lloyds acted reasonably in not asking Ms M questions about them. 
On 2 November 2018 Ms M made a payment of £54,829.16 and on 5 January 2019 she 
made another payment of £19,624.23. Both of these payments were transfers to new 
payees. So Ms Ms first two payments of £25,000 on 15 and 16 January 2019 were not so 
unusual that Id expect Lloyds to ask Ms M questions in order to be satisfied she wasnt at 
risk of financial harm. Even if the two payments made on 15 and 16 January 2019 are added 
together, they are still lower than a genuine payment made shortly before. Also, after the first 
two scam payments had been made Ms M still had an account balance of over £26,000. 
The third payment was made in April 2019. Although it was to a new payee it also wouldnt 
have stood out as unusual or suspicious given the payments referred to above and the fact 
that two payments of £25,000 were made in January 2019. Ive thought about the fact that 
after the first two scam transactions Ms Ms balance remained above £26,000, but after this 
payment it reduced to just over £60. This can be seen as one of many fraud indicators. But I 
note that Ms Ms account had a balance of £5 after a payment on 8 May 2017 and that 
during the period from February 2017 to 1 October 2018 (when £150,778.75 was credited) 
the account balance fluctuated between £5 and £1,694.18. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider the reduced balance and new payee would have been enough for Lloyds to be 
concerned that Ms M was at risk of financial harm. 
I appreciate that before receiving funds from her insurer Ms M didnt make large payments 
from her account. But its not unusual for significant deposits to be followed by higher than 
normal spending  which is what seems to have happened in this case. It is unfortunate that 
the scam payments followed these genuine payments and so didnt look unusual to Lloyds. 
Ms M has said that the payment of £54,829.16 was made to an account in her name so 
shouldnt be treated as normal account activity. Her statement shows a debit card payment 
to another bank, so I consider it fair to take this payment in to account when considering her 
normal account and spending history. The other larger payment of £19,624.23 related to a 
Lloyds mortgage not in Ms Ms name  so again I think Lloyds acted reasonably in taking it 
in to account when considering Ms Ms normal account and payment history. Im sorry to hear that at the time Ms M made the payments she was undergoing 
chemotherapy treatment. I accept this may have influenced her decision-making at the time 
but havent seen any evidence to say that Lloyds was made aware of this. Ms M had 
received payment under an insurance policy following her diagnosis but the insurer wasnt 
part of the Lloyds banking group so Lloyds would not have known about it. In the 
circumstances I cant reasonably say Lloyds should have provided a greater level of support 
to Ms M than Id normally expect. 
Recovery
The scam was reported to Lloyds on 25 March 2020 and Lloyds contacted the receiving 
banks the same day. Both banks confirmed that no funds remained. I consider Lloyds did 
what Id expect within a reasonable timescale. 
Overall
In spite of my natural sympathy for the situation Ms M now finds herself in Im unable to 
conclude that Lloyds acted unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman