DRN-1834031
 
The complaint
Mr R complained that Capital One (Europe) plc had recorded late payments on his credit file. 
He said hed have paid if Capital One had reminded him, but he didnt get the text alerts he 
expected to tell him his payment was due. 
What happened
Mr R said hed missed payments onto his Capital One account in March and April 2019. He 
said he didnt get any alerts to warn him that the payment hadnt been made, although his 
account is set up to send these to him. And he didnt get his post either, as he lives as away 
from his address. 
Mr R was very unhappy. He said Capital One had lied to him about why the alerts werent 
sent. Capital One told Mr R that alerts are a facility it no longer offers, but since then it has 
sent him alerts.  
Capital One wrote to Mr R three times about his complaint. 
The first time, in July 2019, it said it wouldnt remove the late payment markers. It said alerts 
are only there to help with account management, and ultimately it was Mr Rs responsibility 
to make his payments. It accepted it had given him confusing and wrong information about 
how his account went into arrears, and how it reports on credit files. It apologised for these 
mistakes, but it didnt think those meant that it had to remove the late payment markers.  
The second time, in early August, it said it had checked why Mr Rs manual payments were 
being declined, and it was a problem with his card issuer. Mr R would need to talk to the 
card issuer about this. It didnt think it had previously told him that a direct debit was set up 
on his account. It said it had told him that he would need to ring back to do that. 
Capital One said it had made efforts to contact Mr R about his late payments. It hadnt tried 
to contact him on 12 July, and it was sorry it had given him wrong information about that. It 
refunded £24 of fees to say sorry. But it had tried to contact him on 14 May, and wrote to him 
on 29 April, about his late payments. It still wouldnt take the late payment markers off his 
credit file.
The third time, in late August, it said it wouldnt look again at the response to Mr Rs 
complaint it had sent earlier that month. And it didnt think that there was anything wrong 
with the service it had provided on a call since then. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there were a number 
of ways that Mr R could manage his account. She knew he hadnt received the letters 
Capital One sent, but Capital One could only use the address it was given. It wasnt its fault 
Mr R was living somewhere else. She didnt ask Capital One to remove the late payment 
markers, and she thought that the payment Capital One had made to Mr R of £24 for some 
wrong information provided reasonable compensation.Mr R said hed put the contingency of alerts in place because it was a busy time for him, so 
he wanted those reminders in case he forgot to make his payment. He still thought Capital 
One had let him down. His credit file would be affected for six years because of an oversight. 
This meant he wasnt able to get a mortgage. He said hed told Capital One he had problems 
making payments through the app. He didnt think that Capital One shouldve been able to 
take away the alerts that he was relying on without telling him about it. And he didnt think we 
should let it do that. 
Our investigator said she did understand that sometimes things could happen in life to cause 
an oversight. And she appreciated the impact this was having. But Capital One has an 
obligation to record accurate information with credit reference agencies. Our investigator 
couldnt suggest that Capital One amend Mr Rs credit record because text messages didnt 
come through. Those messages were only supposed to be an aid. Management of the 
account doesnt just rely on them. 
Mr R still thought that Capital One had been unfair. Because he didnt agree with our 
investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I know what Mr R really wants is for late payment markers to be removed from his 
credit file. But I dont think it would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint to require Capital One to do that. It may not have sent him alerts that he 
was expecting. But it was sending him statements, and it tried a number of times to 
get in touch with him. 
I appreciate that Mr R has told us that this was a very busy time in his life, and the 
payments were just overlooked. But I dont think thats Capital Ones responsibility. I 
think Capital One did do enough to let Mr R know that those payments were due. Its 
not Capital Ones fault that its other attempts to tell Mr R about this debt didnt work, 
because he doesnt live at the address Capital One holds. So, although I know Mr R 
will be disappointed by this, I wont tell it to remove those late payment markers. 
I do though think that Capital One has to do a little more to make up for what has 
happened here. Its told Mr R it withdrew the alerts service, and he said he wasnt 
warned about that. Its given him confusing and wrong information on the phone, on a 
number of different calls. I still think its Mr Rs responsibility to make his payments on 
time, and I note that most of the problems hes told us about happened after the 
payments were missed. But I also think its fair to say that the service from Capital 
One has been poor at times. 
I think its reasonable to ask Capital One to pay a little more compensation than the 
refund of £24 it has made to Mr R. So Ill ask Capital One to pay £100 in 
compensation, to make up for the instances of poor customer service that Mr R 
experienced when he was trying to resolve this problem.
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr R wrote to object. Capital One didnt reply within the allotted time.                              
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr R said he was disappointed, because before this he hadnt missed one payment to 
Capital One. He thought what happened here wasnt any different to his setting up a direct 
debit to Capital One, and it removing that direct debit without telling him. 
Mr R said hed moved away for work and was living in rented accommodation with a 
communal mail box, so he didnt want to change his address for security reasons. He said if 
the alerts hadnt been offered he wouldve set something up himself to remind him to make 
the payments. And if the alerts werent intended to be used to manage his account then what 
was the point of them? If they were removed, surely a customer should be told? 
Mr R said that Capital One hadnt called him in May. He answers all his calls, or calls back. 
He thought this complaint was simple, removing the alerts was the main factor in him 
missing his payments, and if we looked at it like that wed agree with him. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr R that I still dont agree. I dont think that this is the same as a 
direct debit being removed without notice. Mr R usually made manual payments, in response 
to notification from Capital One that he owed it money. And in this case, I dont think Capital 
One had failed to tell Mr R that he owed it money.
Capital One was sending Mr R statements for his account, to the address hed given it. I 
know that Mr R doesnt live at this address, and hes explained why he didnt want to update 
his address to where he lives now. But that doesnt mean that Capital One hasnt alerted him 
to the need to make a payment. It had. If Mr R doesnt get his post, and doesnt have any 
arrangement set up to find out what has been sent to him in the post, then I dont think thats 
Capital Ones fault. I still think it remains primarily his responsibility to make the payment. 
Mr R said that Capital One didnt call him on 18 May. I noted in my provisional decision that 
it had told Mr R in a letter that it tried three times to call him. But I also noted that it accepted 
it previously made a mistake about when it said it had called him. 
I dont know if Capital One actually called Mr R in May or not. But even if it didnt, I still 
wouldnt say its got to take the late payment markers off his credit file. Thats because I still 
think Capital One had done enough to alert Mr R to the fact that he needed to make a 
payment. 
I do still think Capital One has provided Mr R with poor service at points, and thats why Ive 
asked it to pay Mr R £100 in compensation. But I dont think its responsible for him missing 
these payments.
I know Mr R will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind.
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc must pay Mr R £100 in compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman