DRN-3400158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complaint that National Savings and Investments (NSI) did not correctly 
process a transfer of a Childrens Bond to Premium Bonds, leading to the loss of 
opportunities to win up to £1 million.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs Ls son was born in 2005, they invested in an NSI Childrens Bond, with 
the intention that their son would receive a cash payment when he was 21. At the time, the 
Bond could be held until the beneficiarys 21st birthday. The bond was to be operated and 
managed by Mr and Mrs L until their sons 16th birthday.
NSI subsequently withdrew the Childrens Bond. A few months before Mr and Mrs Ls sons 
16th birthday, it therefore gave them the option of closing it and transferring the funds 
elsewhere. Mr and Mrs L decided to invest the money in premium bonds. 
Mrs L completed a form requesting the transfer on 14 July 2021. The following day, NSI 
asked that Mr L complete the form as well, as the bond was operated by both parents. When 
that form was received, however, NSI asked again for Mrs Ls signature. It acknowledges 
that was an error on its part. NSI has said too that the application was then sent to the wrong 
department, meaning that setting up the Premium Bond account was further delayed. NSI 
also wrote to Mr and Mrs Ls son about the transfer. They say that until then he did not know 
that they had invested any money for him.
NSI has offered £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. It says too that 
it has backdated the premium bonds to July 2021 and that they have therefore been eligible 
for prizes from September 2021  but have not won any prizes. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought that NSIs offer was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs L did not agree and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the concern that NSI wrote to Mr and Mrs Ls son about the Bond. The 
brochure about the Childrens Bond explains that, once a child is 16, they take responsibility 
for their own Bond and that, from then, any correspondence is sent to the child. In the 
circumstances, it does not seem unreasonable that NSI wrote to Mr and Mrs Ls son shortly 
before his 16th birthday. 
NSI accepts that there were some administrative errors and has apologised for that. Mr and 
Mrs L say however that the delays meant that opportunities to win up to £1 million were lost. 
NSI says however that the Premium Bonds were backdated to July. Its information about 
Premium Bonds includes: 
In most cases, youll need to hold them for a whole month before theyre eligible for the 
prize draw. For example, if you buy Premium Bonds any time in November, theyll be in 
the draw in January
Premium Bonds bought in July 2021, therefore, would not have been eligible for the prize 
draw until September 2021. NSI says that it has checked the draws back to September 2021 
and that no opportunity to enter the draw has therefore been missed. It says too that the 
Premium Bonds purchased did not win any prizes and that there has not therefore been any 
actual financial loss arising from its errors.
I accept that NSI did backdate the Premium Bonds and that there was no loss.  
Even if any prize draws had been missed, however, it would not be right to approach 
compensation on the assumption that a prize or prizes would have been won. It would not be 
right either to do so on the assumption that the Premium Bonds would not have won 
anything. In any given month, only a small percentage of Premium Bond holders win 
anything at all, and prizes range from £25 to £1 million. 
NSI says that, for each £1 held in Premium Bonds, there is a 1 in 34,500 chance of winning 
a prize. That is in line with independent information. The number of prizes of each value 
varies according to the total number of Bonds held. In May 2022, for example, there were 
two winners of £1 million, six £100,000 prizes, while over 3 million people won £25. 
In my view, the fair way to approach compensation here is to calculate an equivalent rate of 
interest based on the probability of winning a prize over the course of a year. The current 
equivalent rate is about 2.3% a year. That is, the mean average prize money won by 
someone holding £100 in Premium Bonds for a year is around £2.30. The fund in this case 
was a little under £800; interest at 2.3% a year on that is just over £18. 
I believe that NSI has acted fairly by backdating the Premium Bond and checking prize 
draws from September 2021. But, even if I took a different view on that, any likely losses  
calculated on the basis I have set out above  are no more than a few pounds and 
adequately covered by the offer already made.     
Putting things right
NSI has acknowledged that it made a mistake here and I agree that it should pay some 
compensation. I think however that its offer is fair. I will nevertheless make a formal award, 
so that it can be enforced if necessary.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, my final decision is that National Savings and 
Investments should pay £50 to resolve this complaint in full. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 Mike Ingram
Ombudsman