DRN-2410738
The complaint
Mr R complains about an annuity taken out through Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited. He says that when he contacted Prudential it didnt tell him about the open market 
option (OMO) or that he may be able to get a higher annuity elsewhere. He says he has lost 
out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr R had a pension plan with Prudential. On 4 February 2008, Prudential sent Mr R his 
retirement pack, following a telephone call with him the day before. A retirement date of 13 
February 2008 was used. 
This pack consisted of a covering letter, with enclosures, which amongst others, included a 
key features document and a form for Mr R to sign to confirm his retirement choices. The 
covering letter invited Mr R to call Prudential if he would like more information or help. It 
also recommended that he may want to seek financial advice about his choice. It gave him 
a helpline to contact if he wanted to find a financial adviser in his area. The covering letter 
specifically pointed out that he could use the OMO to choose another pension provider.
Mr R signed the choices form, dating it 6 February 2008, selecting an annuity through 
Prudential along with tax free cash. Prudential received this form back from Mr R on           
7 February 2008.
Mr R says he was told by Prudential to just complete the forms and return them. He says 
at the time, he was vulnerable because he was in financial difficulty, without a job and in 
substantial debt. And he was suffering from anxiety and depression. He says he told 
Prudential this. Mr R says he believed that he had received advice about his annuity 
from Prudential.
Mr R complains that Prudential didnt advise him properly about his annuity. In particular, 
he wasnt told about his right to shop around (otherwise known as the OMO) He also said 
Prudential didnt ask him about any medical conditions he had at the time. Mr R says that 
he has lost out because of Prudentials actions, because if he had been given clearer 
advice or information he wouldve shopped around and likely got a higher annuity. He said 
he intended to pay his debts using the pension fund and didnt feel Prudential had 
considered the full extent of his circumstances before setting up the annuity.
Mr R complained to Prudential in October 2019. Prudential said it no longer had a copy of 
the call recording from 2008. It said that it didnt provide Mr R with any advice, it simply 
acted upon his instructions to set up the annuity. It said it gave Mr R all the necessary 
information to make an informed decision, in its retirement pack, which included the key 
features booklet. The key features document contained information about enhanced 
annuities and the OMO. It said it had met the regulatory requirements for providing 
information.
Mr R complained to our service. Our investigator looked in to it and did not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. She concluded, in summary, that Prudential had not provided Mr R with any 
advice about his annuity at the time of sale. In her opinion, Prudential had provided him 
with information about his options, including details about the OMO and enhanced 
annuities, to enable him to make an informed choice. And that this information was in line 
with regulatory obligations.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr Rs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, I am not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Information that is clear, fair and not misleading
Prudential no longer has a copy of the call recording between it and Mr R from 2008. But, 
thats not surprising as banks often only keep records for six years. So, I cant know what 
was discussed between Mr R and Prudential at the time. Ive taken into account what Mr R 
says was discussed during this call. I have also looked at the paperwork from the time the 
annuity was purchased.
Mr R was sent a retirement pack before he opted to purchase an annuity through 
Prudential. The covering letter referred him to the enclosed booklet (the key features 
document), which gave more information about the different options available to him at the 
time. The key features document explained that if he wanted one of these, he could contact 
another insurance company or speak to a financial adviser.
I can see that information about the OMO and enhanced annuities was clearly set out in 
the key features document. I can also see that Prudential recommended that Mr R may 
want to obtain advice about his choices. 
I think it was made clear in the retirement pack that other options existed. So, it seems to 
me that Mr R was given clear, fair and not misleading information, in writing, about his 
choices, to allow him to make an informed choice about how to proceed. It seems to me 
the information that was included, and given to Mr R at the time, appeared to be in line 
with regulatory obligations.
Advice
The choices form Mr R signed to select the Prudential annuity, listed four other possible 
choices, these included transferring to another plan and taking his annuity through the 
OMO. It seems Mr R signed the choices form immediately after receiving the retirement 
pack from Prudential. The signed form was received back by Prudential a few days after 
the retirement pack was sent out.
The covering letter said Mr R could call could for help or more information and 
recommended he obtained financial advice. I cant see that Mr R obtained advice.
Ive seen a copy of a letter sent to Mr R by Prudential, on 14 February 2008. It was noted 
in that letter that it appeared that Mr R had not obtained financial advice. So, I think this 
document, from the time, shows that from Prudentials perspective it did not consider that it 
had provided Mr R with any financial advice about his choices, nor did it believe that Mr R 
had chosen to obtain financial advice. Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely that Prudential did provide Mr R with any 
advice in relation to the purchase of his annuity. I appreciate that Mr R may see it 
differently. 
As I have concluded that Prudential didnt give Mr R any advice about the sale, it wasnt 
responsible for the choices Mr R made or for considering his full circumstances to assess 
whether purchasing the Prudential annuity was the most suitable option for him, in his 
particular circumstances. Thats because Prudential was the administrator of his pension 
and wasnt acting as his adviser.
Taking all of this into account, I dont find that Prudential did anything wrong here and 
therefore I cant fairly uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman