DRN-1427121
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service HSBC UK Bank Plc provided him when he tried to 
withdraw money and when he called his telephone banking helpline. 
What happened
In September 2019, having lost his card, Mr A went into an HSBC branch to withdraw 
£1,000. He had his driving license and passport with him, along with his cheque book. 
Mr A says he was told he couldnt withdraw the money, and was then told to wait 15 minutes 
to be told the same thing. He says that the staff member also shouted at him.
Mr A says he told the staff member that he had autism, and he says the lady was nicer after 
this. But he says she told him to come back later that day.  He was then able to withdraw the 
money. Mr A also called his telephone banking and said the people he spoke to refused to 
help and disconnected the call three times causing him stress, anxiety and financial loss for 
calls he had made. 
Mr A would like £300 for discrimination and distress, and for compensation to cover the call 
costs. 
HSBC wrote to Mr A and explained that, while they hadnt been able to identify the staff 
member he spoke with when visiting the branch, they had passed feedback to the branch 
manager. They also said they couldnt find any evidence of calls that had been 
disconnected. 
They said they were pleased to see Mr A had been able to withdraw the £1,000 and, 
because of the distress caused they offered him £50 in compensation. They also explained 
that, if Mr A wanted to withdraw a large amount of money in the future, he could request a 
withdrawal limit increase. Alternatively, they said they could place a withdrawal request with 
a local branch so that Mr A could go and collect the money in person. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
She felt they had done all they could to investigate the matter and that the £50 offered was 
fair and reasonable.  
Mr A didnt agree and feels an amount of £300 is more reasonable. Because of this the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its always difficult to know exactly what happened when someone encounters issues in a 
branch. Because I wasnt there at the time, Im unable to know exactly what was said and 
why. Because of this, I must base my findings on the information I do have and what I think 
was most likely to have taken place. Mr A has explained he was yelled at by the branch staff member, and that when he called 
his telephone banking helpline, the call was disconnected. Mr A has explained he told the 
staff member about his autism and that she was nicer to him after this. 
HSBC have looked into Mr As allegations but cant find a record of who Mr A spoke to in 
branch. They have also tried to locate the call Mr A says was disconnected, however 
Theyve not been able to. 
HSBC apologised for the inconvenience caused to Mr A and credited his account with £50. 
Overall I dont disbelieve Mr A. It sounds like he had an unpleasant experience when visiting 
the branch and calling his internet banking helpline. However, while I note Mr As comments 
about what happened, I dont have enough for me to say that HSBC treated him unfairly in 
this case. Because of this, I feel the offer of £50 is fair, and so wont be asking HSBC to offer 
anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
HSBC has offered Mr A £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience of whats 
happened. I think this is fair compensation in these circumstances. So I wont be asking 
them to pay anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman