DRN-3392422
The complaint
Miss P complains that Skyline Direct Limited (Skyline) provided her with loans she couldnt 
afford to repay. She says, at the time she had multiple other loans with other lenders and 
until the final two loans she wasnt asked for any evidence of her income. 
What happened
Miss P took at least 14 home collected loans between April 2015 and November 2020. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £500.00 20/04/2015 02/11/2015 30 £25.00
2 £500.00 20/04/2015 12/11/2015 30 £25.00
3 £500.00 02/11/2015 09/05/2016 30 £25.00
4 £500.00 23/11/2015 09/05/2016 30 £25.00
5 £1,000.00 09/05/2016 24/10/2016 30 £50.00
6 £1,000.00 24/10/2016 08/05/2017 30 £50.00
7 £1,000.00 08/05/2017 27/11/2017 30 £50.00
8 £1,000.00 27/11/2017 04/06/2018 30 £50.00
9 £1,000.00 04/06/2018 19/11/2018 30 £50.00
10 £1,000.00 19/11/2018 20/05/2019 30 £50.00
11 £1,100.00 20/05/2019 25/11/2019 30 £55.00
12 £1,100.00 25/11/2019 18/06/2019 30 £55.00
13 £500.00 20/07/2020 11/02/2021 30 £25.00
14 £800.00 30/11/2020 outstanding 45 £28.44
Some of Miss Ps loans overlapped, and where that happened the weekly repayment will be 
more. For example, when loans one and two were running at the same time Miss P had a 
combined weekly commitment of £50 to Skyline. 
Following Miss Ps complaint Skyline issued its final response letter in July 2021. Skyline 
outlined the checks that it said it carried out during the lending relationship. But it concluded 
that further checks ought to have been carried out for loans 10  12 and it upheld Miss Ps 
complaint about these loans. It didnt uphold the complaint about loans 13 and 14 because it 
explained that further checks were carried out at this point in time. It didnt uphold Miss Ps 
complaint about any other loans. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss Ps referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Ps complaint and he partially upheld it. He hadnt seen 
enough to say that it was incorrect of Skyline to have advanced loans one and two. But he 
thought from loan three onwards the lending was now harmful for Miss P. He also 
concluded, that even if Skyline had carried out further checks when these loans were 
advanced it wouldve seen that Miss P was spending significant sums on gambling 
transactions. Overall, he upheld Miss Ps complaint about loans 3  14.  
Miss P acknowledged receipt of the assessment but didnt provide any further comments. 
Skyline disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, but its response focused on what 
happened when loans 13 and 14 were granted. At this time, it says it completed the checks 
which Ive outlined below.
Skyline carried out a credit check. 
Miss Ps income was verified. 
Credit commitments from the credit file were applied to the affordability assessment. 
An additional £25 buffer was applied for unexpected expenditure. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Miss P appears to agree with our adjudicators findings about loans one and two. So, I no 
longer think this lending is in dispute, and I no longer need to make a finding about them.  
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship 
between Skyline and Miss P.  
Skyline has also accepted that something went wrong when loans 10  12 were granted, 
and it offered to put things right for Miss P in the final response letter. So, like the loans the 
adjudicator didnt uphold, these loans are no longer in dispute, but for completeness Ive 
included what Skyline needs to do to put things right in the putting things right section at the 
end of the decision. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Skyline did anything wrong when it granted loans 
3  9, 13 and 14. 
Before I go into what has happened in this case and Skylines obligations to Miss P before it 
lent it is important to address the bank statements Miss P has provided. 
Miss P has provided both the Financial Ombudsman and Skyline with bank statements that 
show from February 2014 she was making regular repayments to Skyline.  This is evidence 
that Miss Ps lending relationship started sooner than Skyline has been able to provide 
evidence for. 
Skyline has told the Financial Ombudsman that it cant find any further information about any 
lending that occurred before loan one in the table above. This is because, Skyline has 
explained that it only keeps details of loans within the previous six years. As these loans fall 
outside of that window it doesnt hold any information about them.  
Equally, the bank statements dont show the start or end date of each loan or exactly how 
much was lent. This means, based on the evidence provided its not possible to accurately 
reconstruct Miss Ps entire lending history prior to April 2015. For example, I cant say exactly how many loans Miss P was advanced or whether there were any pervious 
repayment problems. 
All I can conclude is that Miss Ps lending relationship existed with Skyline in some form or 
another since at least February 2014  some 14 months before Skyline can show the full 
loan details and Ive kept this in mind when thinking about 
Before each loan application Skyline had to assess the lending to check if Miss P could 
afford to pay back the amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this 
in a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Skylines checks couldve taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Miss Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Skyline should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss P. These factors include:
Miss P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss P.
Skyline was required to establish whether Miss P could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss P was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ps complaint.
Loans 3 - 14
The loan being pounds and pence affordable is only part of the consideration that Skyline 
needed to consider. So, I havent felt the need to recreate individual, proportionate 
affordability checks for these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. 
I do accept that based on the information that Skyline gathered for these loans they wouldve 
looked affordable to it. But Skyline also needed to consider what had gone on in the lending 
relationship and to consider whether the loans were sustainable. I appreciate that Skyline, in the final response letter and in the information provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman, has pointed out that there is a four-week gap between Miss P 
repaying loan 12 and being advanced loan 13. But Im not persuaded that this gap 
materially changes the outcome of the complaint.  
Ive considered this gap, but, in this case, it wouldnt change my mind about whether those 
loans are upheld. This is because prior to this gap, there seems to have been an unbroken 
chain of lending of over five years. So, I cant fairly say that a break of four weeks is 
sufficient to think that either loan 13 is the start of a new lending relationship or was a sign 
that the final two loans were now sustainable for her. 
Equally, Skyline has, in response to the adjudicators assessment pointed out specifically the 
checks that it carried out for the final two loans. These checks appear to be more detailed, or 
at the very least more detailed information has been provided about the income and 
expenditure information from Miss P. Which as Ive said above wouldve shown Skyline 
these loans were affordable. 
Skyline has provided an overview of the credit check result it received about these loans. 
Skyline says that there werent signs of financial difficulties and while there were defaults 
reported these had been more than 12 months before the loans were approved. But, if that 
was the case, then these defaults may have been visible on or around the time loans 10 and 
11 were granted. 
As Skyline ought to be aware, a customer receiving a default on their credit file is usually a 
sign they are having problems meeting their existing credit commitments. So, Skylines credit 
check results for loans 12 and 13 indicate, that during the lending relationship 
Miss P was or likely having financial difficulties. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Miss P, Skyline also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Miss P. 
Having looked at the overall pattern of Skylines lending history with Miss P, I agree with our 
adjudicator that at this point in time, Skyline should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan three. I say this 
because;
At this point Skyline ought to have realised Miss P was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss P had taken out two loans in around 7 months. But, in actual 
fact, given Miss Ps bank statements it seems that Miss P had been indebted to 
Skyline for at least 21 months and she appears to have been indebted to Skyline for 
the entire time. So, Skyline ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss P 
was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Miss Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and her underlying financial situation 
didnt seem to be improving. 
Miss Ps first loan was for £500 and loan three was for £1,000.  At this point Skyline 
ought to have known that Miss P was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
By loan 14, Miss Ps weekly repayments were the highest they had been. She started 
repaying £25 per week for loan one (£50 when loans 1 and 2 were running at the 
same time), but loan 14 (when loan 13 was still outstanding) she was committed to 
paying Skyline £53.44 per week. So, Miss Ps weekly repayments were increasing 
which suggests that the loans werent sustainable for her and her borrowing hadnt 
decreased over the lending relationship.  Miss P normally took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid. 
Skyline ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss P, on these 
occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial 
need. To me, this is indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable.
Miss P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Skyline. While her 
final loan was smaller than some of her previous loans it was still larger than her first 
four. Loan 14 was taken out over five years after loan one, but in actual fact its more 
like six years given I know there was lending from February 2014. Miss P had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Skyline over an extended 
period.
I think that Miss P has lost out because Skyline provided her lending from loan three 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 3  14 and Ive outlined below 
what Skyline needs to do in order to put things right for Miss P. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Skyline should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent from loan three, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss P may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss P would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Skylines liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Skyline shouldnt have given Miss P loans 3 - 14.
If Skyline has sold the outstanding balance it should buy it back if it is able to do so. If 
Skyline cant buy it back, then it should liaise with the debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below. A.  Skyline should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Skyline have already refunded.
B. Skyline should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss P 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Skyline should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss P as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss P 
having made overpayments then Skyline should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Skyline should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any 
principal youve already written-off]. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus 
should be paid to Miss P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Skyline should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss P. Skyline 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Skyline have already 
written-off.
E. The overall pattern of Miss Ps borrowing for loans 3  14 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Skyline should remove these loans entirely from 
Miss Ps credit file. Skyline does not have to remove loan 14 from Miss Ps credit file 
until it has been repaid, but Skyline should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Skyline to deduct tax from this interest. Skyline should 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint in part. 
Skyline Direct Limited should put things right for Miss P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman