DRN-4033784
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral are unfairly pursuing her daughter (Mrs T), the named driver 
on her policy, for its outlay in relation to a claim it dealt with as the Road Traffic Act (RTA) 
insurer.
Mrs S and Mrs T are represented in their complaint by Mr S, who also represented them 
when dealing with Admiral.
What happened
Mrs T was involved in an accident when driving Mrs S car in April 2018. The accident 
involved two other cars, that Ill refer to as TP1 and TP2, and resulted in Mrs S car ending 
up on its side. 
At the scene Mrs T was too shocked to perform a breathalyser test and so completed one at 
the police station later. She was found to be over the legal limit to drive, and was charged, 
she later pleaded guilty to this at court. 
Mrs S policy has the following drink and drugs clause:
If an accident happens whilst you or any person entitled to drive under section 3 of 
your current certificate of motor insurance is driving your vehicle and:
is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
Fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason
no cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to 
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances we 
will recover from you or the driver, all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in 
settlement or under a judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.
Mr S reported the accident to Admiral, he explained the circumstances of the accident and 
said he thought TP1 was at fault for the accident. He said Mrs T claimed TP1 had been 
performing an illegal U turn which had caused the accident. He also explained that Mrs T 
had failed a breathalyser test and been charged. Mr S was told during this call that the claim 
for Mrs S car wouldnt be covered as Mrs T had breached the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Mr S asked what that meant if any third-party claims were presented and was told, Admiral 
would look to hold TP1 liable and refute any claims so as not to pay out something they 
didnt need to. Mr S did ask where they would stand if Mrs T were at fault and was told, 
Admiral would need to look into that further. But if it was found she wasnt at fault then they 
wouldnt pay out. Mr S was asked for and provided the third-party details he had, for Admiral 
to have on file.
Admiral received claims from TP1, TP2 and a passenger of Mrs Ts, they accepted liability 
for them based on the investigations they carried out. Which included sending an 
investigator to interview Mrs T and some of her passengers from the accident, about their 
recollection of events.
The investigator made some comments about the site of the accident being well known for 
cars making U turns. 
Mr S says Admiral never saw Mrs S car or asked for any photos of it when carrying out their 
investigations, and this would have helped prove that Mrs T wasnt at fault.
Admiral wrote to Mrs S explaining the claim wouldnt be covered under her policy and they 
also asked her to sign a consent form allowing them to act on her behalf when defending or 
negotiating any claims. They explained in the letter that under the Road Traffic Act 1988 
(RTA) they are obligated to deal with the third-party claims and the form allows them to 
negotiate, and hopefully bring down any costs. The letter also explains that they would be 
seeking to recover all claims associated costs from her. 
Mr S called to discuss this with Admiral and says he was given the advice that Mrs S didnt 
need to sign the form, and that the progression of the claim would be placed on hold while 
complaints were pending (at this time complaints had been made by Mr S about Admirals 
handling of the ongoing claim). So, the form was not signed.
Admiral went on to negotiate and settle the claims at a total cost of £46,091.68. They wrote 
to Mrs T explaining they were seeking to recover this amount from her. In the letter they said 
as she had failed to cooperate the third parties had signed forms of assignment and 
agreement, transferring the right of recovery from the third parties to Admiral.
There were a number of things throughout the claim that Mrs S was unhappy with, and Mr S 
raised various complaints throughout the lifetime of the claim. And to help him to navigate 
these complaints he made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to Admiral. The complaints 
broadly fell into the following categories:
Liability  including the investigation of this and the decision to ultimately hold Mrs T 
liable for the accident
Declining the claim for the drink and drug clause in the policy and not taking a 
commercial view on this 
Recovery of the costs of third-party claims from Mrs T and the reasonableness of the 
amount of those costs
Customer service - including communications (both written and verbal) and Admiral 
providing misleading information
Admirals handing of the SAR request.
There were multiple points under each of these areas  but broadly speaking these are the 
things Mr S complained about.
Admiral issued four final response letters on 21 August 2018 (FRL1); 7 March 2019 (FRL2); 
21 December 2020 (FRL3); 19 March 2021(FRL4). 
Mrs S brought a complaint to this service following FRL2, this was dealt with under a 
separate complaint reference. The complaint was brought out of time and an Ombudsman 
issued a decision saying the matters covered in FRL2 and prior to it were outside of this 
services jurisdiction.Mrs S brought another complaint to this service following FRL3 and FRL4. Our investigator 
said that some of the answers given in FRL3 and FRL4 were Admiral just restating their 
position on previous points raised and so would fall outside of our jurisdiction. After some 
back and forth between the parties it was agreed only the following points could be looked 
into by this service:
Admirals contact to police regarding the alcohol levels as Mr S believes there was 
reasonable doubt over whether the driver was over the legal limit.
Admirals questioning of its own investigator regarding his comments on liability.
Admirals request for photographic evidence relating to vehicle damage, which Mr S 
disputes receiving.
Admirals letter issued on 12 June 2018 being inappropriate.
Advice given by Admiral regarding coverage for third party claims.
Admirals payments in compensation, legal fees and hire costs.
Admirals contact regarding reasonableness of the claims costs paid.
Admirals settlement of the claim payments without consent.
Admirals agent misleading Mr S regarding not having to sign the consent form.
Admirals handling of chasers being sent to them and their failure to respond.
Admirals handling of their data subject access request.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs S complaint, in summary he said:
Admiral hadnt acted unreasonably when dealing with the claim, however he accepted there 
had been some service-related issues, but the £300 Admiral had already compensated for 
this was fair and reasonable. Mr S responded on behalf of Mrs S with a lengthy argument as 
to why they disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Both parties have sent this service a lot of 
information for me to consider during the course of the complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
And I have to tell Mrs S and Mrs T that, having considered everything, I wont be upholding 
their complaint, Ill explain why. 
Liability issues
While I wont be commenting on the liability decision made by Admiral Ive considered if 
Admiral should have questioned their own investigator about the comments he made when 
interviewing Mrs T. And I dont think they did, I say this because the investigator made a conversational comment to Mrs T along the lines of the area of the accident being known for 
taxis to make U turns. But the investigator was not present at the time of the accident, and 
his knowledge of the area isnt accident specific evidence and so wouldnt make a difference 
if Admiral were trying to defend a liability claim in court.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about never being asked for photographs of Mrs S 
car, which he feels would have supported their position on liability. While I havent been able 
to listen to the call recording, I have seen the notes on Admirals system relating to a call 
between Admiral and Mr S on 3 May 2018. The notes indicate there was a conversation 
around the car having already been scrapped but that there were images of it, which Admiral 
asked for Mr S to provide to the investigator that would interview Mrs T. I appreciate Mr S 
says he doesnt recall being asked for these, but as the notes are contemporaneous, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that Admiral asked for the photographs to be given to the 
investigator. However, I do accept that when the photographs werent provided Admiral 
never asked for them again, so I understand Mr S concern that they havent seen them. But 
Admiral have confirmed they wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome of the liability 
decision because of the weight of the other evidence, such as witness statements, they 
considered. So, I cant fairly say there was any detriment caused by the photographs not 
being considered. 
Drink driving clause 
Im satisfied that Admiral has fairly applied the drink driving clause in this case. I say that 
because Mrs T has been convicted of driving over the legal limit. And although Mr S says the 
arresting police officer and the judge at her trial said she was unlucky  this doesnt mean 
the clause shouldnt apply. Nor does it mean that Admiral needed to do any further 
investigation by contacting either of those parties for their personal opinions on Mrs T being 
over the limit or not. 
I appreciate that Mr S says Mrs T wouldnt have pled guilty, had she realised she wouldnt be 
covered for the third-party claims against her, as she was only a few milligrams over the 
limit. However, she did this on the advice of her solicitor for a lesser sentence, and there is 
no guarantee that had she pled not guilty she would have been able to successfully defend 
the charge. And in any event the policy clause wasnt reliant upon the conviction as it only 
needed Mrs T to be found to be over the legal limit for alcohol, which she was. So even if 
she was only just over the limit, Admiral still had the right to invoke the clause here.
Recovery rights, claim costs and service 
I have listened to the first notification of loss call between Mr S and Admiral and while 
Admiral didnt definitively say they wouldnt cover third party claims I think the call was clear 
enough for Mr S to know that it was unlikely. I say this as Admiral had pointed out that Mrs T 
had breached the policy terms and so the incident wouldnt be covered. They also informed 
Mr S that the underwriting team would be in contact to let him know if they would proceed 
with the claim. Even if I accept that Mr S was misled on this call, which to be clear I dont, it 
wouldnt mean Admiral would need to cover the third-party claims, as the policy terms are 
clear on there being no cover under the policy in these circumstances.
Once Admirals underwriting team confirmed to Mrs S they wouldnt be dealing with the 
claim, they asked her to sign a consent form to allow them to negotiate on any third-party 
claims, top help keep costs down. She didnt sign the form and in a later letter Admiral 
referenced Mrs S not signing the form by saying she hadnt cooperated with the claims. 
Given the fact that Mrs S didnt sign the form because of incorrect information they had given Mr S when talking to him about this on the phone, I dont think it was reasonable for them to 
say she hadnt cooperated with the claim.
Mr S has concerns that Admiral went ahead without consent and settled the claims and 
when doing so didnt keep Mrs S updated. He also has concerns about the cost of the third-
party claims. 
Under section151(2)(b) of the RTA 1988 an insurer is obliged to meet a third-party judgment 
against a person driving a car insured by them but who is not covered under the policy. In 
this case Mrs T wasnt covered under the policy because she had breached the terms of the 
policy by being over the legal alcohol limit when driving. Although not all of the third-party 
claims went to court and resulted in a judgement, I think it was fine for Admiral to carry on 
and deal with the claims as they did. As in doing so, they were mitigating any future costs. I 
can see Admiral challenged claim costs where they could. So, Im satisfied that Admiral 
worked in the interest of keeping the claims costs as low as they could. So, it follows I think 
the claim costs they paid were reasonable in the circumstances. Given this, I think its fair 
and reasonable that Admiral are now seeking to recover those costs from Mrs T.
Due to the large sum in question and Mrs Ts financial circumstances, I would suggest that 
Admiral and Mrs T work together to come up with an affordable payment plan that is suitable 
to both parties.
I agree Admiral should have kept Mrs S better informed about what was going on with the 
claims as they were being dealt with as either she or Mrs T was ultimately going to be 
responsible for meeting the cost of the claims. And I think Admiral let her down here, 
especially as there were times when Mr S was contacting them, and he wasnt being 
responded to.
Admiral have admitted the service failings mentioned above and awarded £300 for them, 
and I think thats fair, reasonable and in line with our approach.
SAR 
Admiral were late in suppling information to Mr S when he made a SAR, by a few days. And 
although this is frustrating, I can see they apologised for this, and Im satisfied thats fair in 
the circumstances, so I wont asking them to do anything more here. 
Mr S isnt convinced that he has been given all the information that Admiral holds, as he has 
requested. He has made reference to certain calls not being available. Admiral has told us it 
provided Mr S with everything they have, and I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. 
However, Admirals compliance to the SAR doesnt fall under the remit of this service and so 
if Mr S feels they havent complied he would need to take the matter up separately with the 
relevant organisation.
I understand Mrs S and her family will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision 
ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Admiral  can do for her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman