DRN-2738784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought a single trip travel insurance policy, through a broker, which was
insured by Great Lakes.
The policy was purchased on 28 November 2019, to cover a packaged holiday to the USA
that Mr and Mrs T were planning to take between 8 May and 28 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs T paid £285.70 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also
covered Mr Ts declared medical conditions of high blood pressure. The premium Mr and
Mrs T paid for their policy included a discount of £44.44.
On 16 March 2020, the US government imposed a travel ban on travellers entering the
country as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So Mr and Mrs T agreed with their travel
provider that their trip would be postponed with a view to travelling in 2021. On 11 April
2020, Mr and Mrs T cancelled their travel insurance policy. Due to the ongoing effects of
Covid-19, Mr and Mrs T ultimately cancelled their holiday on 10 July 2020.
Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs T pro-rata refund of premium in the form of a voucher. The
voucher amount was £42.16. Great Lakes said the voucher would be valid for three years;
could be put towards any future holiday and could be transferred to a third party.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with Great Lakes offer. They said they wouldnt use the
voucher. And that the premium theyd paid out was a lot of money to lose. They asked us to
look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be partly upheld. She thought the
relevant regulators rules stated that even if Mr and Mrs T had cancelled their policy within
14 days, they still wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of their premium. She noted
that the policy terms were more favourable to Mr and Mrs T than the regulators rules. But
she didnt think Mr and Mrs T were entitled to a refund of premium under the policy terms.
However, she thought that in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, it would be fair
and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay them a pro-rata refund of premium from the date they
cancelled their trip  which she took as 16 March 2020, rather than the date Mr and Mrs T
cancelled their policy on 11 April 2020. This would mean Great Lakes would need to pay Mr
and Mrs T a voucher for the amount of £89.06. She was satisfied though that a refund of
premium in the form of a voucher was fair and reasonable and she didnt think Great Lakes
needed to pay Mr and Mrs T a cash refund.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said the policy terms made it clear that a refund of premium would
be calculated from the date a request to cancel the policy was received. In this case, that
was 11 April 2020. It didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to pay anything
more.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Great Lakes offer was fair in the circumstances. I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs T took out have a cooling off period
of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 sets out payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event that
a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that relates to 
the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is material 
unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate method. The sum 
should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs T didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. They cancelled their
policy around three and a half months after itd been taken out. And, under the industry rules
Ive set out above, even if Mr and Mrs T had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they still
wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium they paid. I say this because
Great Lakes covered the risk of them needing to cancel their trip for reasons that were
covered under the policy during that time, such as ill health.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy with Great Lakes set out their
contractual cancellation rights. These say:
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical
conditions.Mr and Mrs Ts cancellation rights under the policy are more favourable to them than is
required by industry rules. But as Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs Ts policy was cancelled
more than 14 days after they took out the policy. Thats because they took out the policy on
28 November 2019 and it wasnt cancelled until 11 April 2020.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances Great Lakes has set out are
policyholder-specific  such as bereavement or a change in their medical conditions. I dont
consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means that on a strict interpretation of the contract with Great Lakes, I dont think Mr
and Mrs T are entitled to any refund of premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was unforeseen and outside
of their control, Mr and Mrs Ts holiday plans changed. This meant they no longer had a
need for their single trip policy to cover their specific trip dates. So Ive thought about
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and
the terms and conditions of the policy because of the exceptional and extraordinary
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. The pandemic wasnt foreseen or anticipated by either
party to the contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ts contract with Great Lakes to
be performed  cancellation cover began on the day they took out the policy. So the price
Great Lakes charged Mr and Mrs T also covered them for cancellation cover from 28
November 2019. This means the premium Mr and Mrs M paid covered the risk of them
having to cancel their holiday for one of the reasons the policy covered.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs T making a successful claim on the policy
from 28 November 2019 until their policy was cancelled on 11 April 2020. While Mr and Mrs
T initially decided to postpone their holiday in April 2020, they ultimately didnt cancel their
trip until 10 July 2020. So at the point Mr and Mrs T called Great Lakes in April 2020, it
seems to me that rather than deciding to cancel the policy; they had the chance to ask Great
Lakes to move it to a future date. This would have meant it potentially continued to carry the
risk of a claim.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had started bearing the risk of
a claim for however short a time  the premium a policyholders paid is not returnable. So,
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ts cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after the policy was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk
under Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy. The holiday had been postponed by this point and
Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason.In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I currently think its fair and reasonable for
Great Lakes to calculate the pro-rata refund from the date the policy was cancelled on 11
April 2020, rather than the date the US government introduced the travel ban. I say that
because at the point the policy was cancelled, Mr and Mrs Ts holiday hadnt been cancelled,
it had been postponed. The decision to cancel wasnt taken until around three months later.
And I think it was open to Mr and Mrs T to ask to move the single trip cover back to a future
date.
How the refund should be paid
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Ts
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts reasons for cancelling their policy, it was their choice to do
so. Mr and Mrs T entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for
Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a
future date.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Great Lakes should pay a pro-
rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs T. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and
limitations attached to that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary
refund in the circumstances.
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable,
so it can be used by either Mr and Mrs T or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip and put towards any future
holidays.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T feel that the voucher isnt suitable for them, because they
say they wont use it. But I do think the voucher gives them some flexibility as to how its
used and I think three years is a reasonable timeframe. This means I dont think the terms of
Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive. So it follows that I think the voucher is a
fair offer in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period
of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly or singled them out in any way.
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Ts unused period of standard
travel insurance cover.
The premium Mr and Mrs T paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 183 days
from 28 November 2019 to 28 May 2020. The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has
offered to Mr and Mrs T to the premiums is equal to 48 unused days of cover from 11 April2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 28 May 2020. Ive checked the calculation
Great Lakes has provided and it seems it calculated the offer fairly. And as Ive explained, in
this particular case, given the trip wasnt cancelled until three months after the policy was
cancelled, I think its fair here for Great Lakes to calculate the refund from the date of policy
cancellation.
Overall, based on all Ive seen so far, I currently think Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair
and reasonable. So Im not planning to tell Great Lakes to do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Neither Mr and Mrs T nor Great Lakes had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has sent me anything more theyd like me to consider, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings. 
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman