DRN-3259386
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a DNA test.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under s 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases 
of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the 
provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
It is agreed that the required chain is in place and the issue for me to deicide is if Barclays 
dealt with the claim that the merchant was guilty of either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
The difficulty I have is the lack of evidence to support Mr Rs claim. He says that he was told 
the test would be carried out by two nurses and he was unaware it would be processed in 
the USA. The current website for the merchant makes no such claims and Mr R has not 
supplied any documentation or a copy of the website at the time he entered into the 
agreement to support his complaint.
I appreciate the result of the test was not what he wanted and he thinks it is incorrect. It 
seems the court accepted the validity of the test and I cannot take a view on that without 
supporting evidence.
In short Mr R asked for a DNA test and this was carried out and the results were provided to 
the satisfaction of the court. I cannot conclude that number of nurses or the location of the 
laboratory had any significant bearing on the test. Nor can I say that this is what the 
merchant told Mr R.
 
I note he has also disputed the signature on the paperwork and the merchant has confirmed 
it was that of the sample collector.  Again, I cannot see how a signature can be said to have 
been the cause of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. The test he asked for was 
completed and accepted by the court which I gather treated it as acceptable. I cannot come 
toa different conclusion.
 
I note that Mr R says he wasnt given any invoice or documents including terms and 
conditions. I have noted that the current website does contain the merchants terms and 
conditions and I suspect these were available to Mr R at the time he entered into the 
contract. Clearly he was given the result of the test and he has had correspondence with the 
merchant since so I cannot see that this element of his complaint is one that I can uphold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman