DRN-2826575
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as B, complain that Covea Insurance plc declined their 
claim for business interruption. Mr P, a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on Bs business as they had to close. 
B held a business insurance policy with Covea. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Covea declined it. It said the policy primarily covered B for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the discovery of certain kinds of diseases at Bs premises. But 
Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. B complained to us, but 
our investigator thought the terms had been applied fairly. B disagreed, so Ive been asked 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on B had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Covea 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Bs circumstances below. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover in Bs policy is for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business carried on by You at the Premises in 
consequence of any Damage occurring at the Premises to any property used by You 
at the Premises for the purposes of the Business.
Damage is defined in the policy as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded. 
Mr P argues Covid-19 caused damage to his mental health, earnings, business and custom. 
But the policy requires there to have been damage to property. I havent seen anything to 
indicate Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to any property used by B for the 
purposes of their business, so I dont think cover applies under this term. 
Prevention of Access or Loss of Attraction
This extension covers B for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of Damage to 
property within 1 kilometre of the Premises:
(a) which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents access to the Premises
(b) which results in a reduction in Turnover directly attributable to a fall in the number 
of potential customers visiting the area and using the Premises. 
Ive equally seen nothing to indicate Covid-19 has caused damage by the policy definition to 
property within one kilometre of Bs premises. So, Im satisfied the claim isnt covered under 
this extension either. 
Compulsory closure
This extension covers B for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises
A definition is given in the policy terms for Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease which is:
Those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 
1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Legionellosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough, Yellow fever.
No other disease will be added to the above list without Our prior written consent. 
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in the list, Im satisfied this 
extension wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as a result of the restrictions 
introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Bs policy includes a list of notifiable diseases at a particular time. And theres 
nothing in the policy which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, 
including any new diseases which emerge, and / or become notifiable at a later date. 
Indeed, it says no other diseases will be added to the above list without Coveas written 
consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to discoveries of 
those notifiable diseases mentioned in the list. Furthermore, this extension requires there to have been a discovery of one of these 
diseases at Bs premises. To my knowledge, B havent suggested that Covid-19 was 
discovered at their premises, or that anyone was later found to have been suffering from 
symptoms of Covid-19 whilst at their premises. So, even if Covid-19 was covered, Bs claim 
still wouldnt be. 
B enquired about the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this only 
affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek to 
resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases that 
doesnt include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
B also made comments that theyve been sold a policy that isnt fit for purpose, and doesnt 
meet their needs. But the schedule suggests it was sold by a broker. Any complaint about 
the sale of the policy would therefore need to be raised with the business that sold it to B. 
I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to B, but I havent found that Covea 
ought to have accepted their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman