DRN-2933468
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined his buildings insurance 
claim.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr P made a claim to Tesco under his buildings insurance policy when 
the front boundary wall of his property collapsed following high winds during a storm. Mr Ps 
wall was brick built, with wooden posts inserted every so often which supported a small 
fence above the brickwork.
 
On 5 January 2021, Tesco sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Following the surveyors 
assessment, Tesco declined Mr Ps claim. It said the high winds experienced during the 
storm had simply highlighted existing damage to Mr Ps wall, and the cause of collapse was 
actually due to wear and tear (as the base of the wooden posts were rotten and hadnt been 
maintained) rather than from the storm itself. Further, it also suggested the fence and wall 
had suffered from poor design  which made it more susceptible to damage.
 
Mr P was unhappy with Tescos decision so, on 10 January 2021, he complained. He said 
that hed maintained the wooden posts and fence every year with wood preservative  and 
the brickwork was solid. Mr P went on to explain that he hadnt noticed an issue with the 
base of the wooden fence posts, and he was confident he wouldve done so given his 
profession. Mr P said the deterioration of the wooden posts was only evident after the storm.
 
Tesco sent its final response to Mr P on 13 January 2021. In it, Tesco said Mr Ps property 
looked to be well maintained. But it pointed out that the brickwork in the wall was only single-
skin, and the supporting wooden fence posts were found to be rotted. Tesco did 
acknowledge that Mr P wouldnt have known about the deterioration to the base of the fence 
posts, but it explained that having a fence attached to a wall  as in Mr Ps case  could act 
like a sail in strong winds, gradually weakening the whole structure. So, Tesco maintained its 
position to decline Mr Ps claim.
Next, Mr P brought his case to our service and an investigator here considered what had 
happened. He didnt think Tesco had fairly declined the claim because, in summary, Mr P 
wouldnt have known the bases of the fence posts had deteriorated. He also said one of the 
fence posts next to Mr Ps front gate was still standing, so rot wasnt the likely main 
contributing factor to the wall collapsing.
 
The investigator also concluded that faulty design wasnt the main cause of the damage. He 
said thats because Mr Ps side boundary wall  of the same design  was still standing. 
And, if faulty workmanship or design was the problem, its reasonable to suggest this 
wouldve suffered damage too. Given the investigator wasnt persuaded Tesco had fairly 
declined Mr Ps claim, he thought the claim should be settled and that Tesco should arrange 
the repairs. 
Mr P accepted the investigators findings, but Tesco didnt. It provided photos from 2016 and 
2020  which it used to argue that the fence posts had visibly deteriorated  and showed 
that the wall itself had some missing mortar. Tesco said this showed Mr Ps fence had 
suffered from a lack of routine maintenance, and this shouldve been visible. So, it still 
refused to pay the claim.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its important to explain that, when looking at a storm claim complaint, 
there are three key questions for me to consider: 
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Our investigator set out in his view that Storm Bella occurred during the time period in 
which Mr P made his claim. Further, the investigator also concluded that the damage 
sustained by Mr Ps wall was consistent with what could occur during a storm. So, he felt the 
answer to the first and second questions that Ive set out above was yes.
 
From what Ive seen, I agree with the investigators findings. Im satisfied that the wind 
speeds recorded at the time demonstrate storm conditions, and that the damage Mr P 
claimed for is consistent with that which can typically occur during such an event. In any 
case, Ive not seen anything to suggest Tesco disputes either of those points. So, I dont 
intend to cover them in any further detail. Instead, Ill focus on the remaining question. 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
To resolve this complaint, I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the wall 
collapsing  or whether the storm simply highlighted an existing problem with the wall.
 
Following Mr Ps claim, Tesco instructed a surveyor to assess the damage. In the surveyors 
opinion, the storm had highlighted existing problems with the structure  specifically that the 
wooden fence-supporting posts had rotted at the base. When the fence had been hit by high 
winds, the wooden posts had fallen away taking the brickwork with them. So, Tesco rejected 
the claim because it said the storm had highlighted gradual wear and tear to the wooden 
posts situated within the brickwork  rather than being the dominant cause of the damage.
 
I should say here that its not for me to question the surveyors professional opinion  and I 
can understand why Tesco would see fit to rely on such an opinion when deciding how best 
to settle Mr Ps claim. But my role is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances  taking into account all of the information it had available. And, having thought carefully about that, Im not persuaded Tesco made a fair decision to 
decline Mr Ps claim.
 
I say that because while its clear now  after the storm  that some gradual damage had 
occurred, before Mr P made his claim theres nothing to suggest he knew of any problems 
with the wooden posts. In his testimony, Mr P says he took steps to maintain the wood every 
year  and Ive no reason to doubt what hes said. So, if he had known about any 
deterioration to the base of the wooden posts, I think its likely he wouldve done something 
about it. But he didnt, and I think thats because the bases of the wooden posts were 
underground and inaccessible to him  so he wouldnt have seen any gradual damage. And 
it follows that, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr P to 
know of any deterioration to the bases of the wooden posts.
Tesco seems to accept this, Ive seen it acknowledged in its final response that it 
understands Mr P wasnt aware. So, if Mr P cant be expected to have been reasonably 
aware of any gradual deterioration  and keeping in mind that he acted quickly to report the 
claim as soon as he discovered the damage  it seems unfair for him to lose out because of 
Tescos general policy exclusion to not pay for damage thats been caused by wear and tear. 
In response to our investigators opinion, Tesco provided additional photos from a well-
known internet search engine  one from 2016 and the other 2020. It said the photos 
showed the fence posts had become visibly discoloured over the years, and this wouldve 
been noticeable to Mr P  demonstrating a lack of routine maintenance.
 
But, considering this point more broadly, I dont think its fair to say that the photos are 
conclusive of a lack of maintenance. Theres nothing in them to show the wooden posts 
were leaning or falling, nor do they show anything to suggest the wall was in danger of 
collapse before the storm. And I dont think it likely that discolouration of the wood wouldve 
caused Mr P any immediate concern, either that the bases had rotted away  or that the wall 
itself was unstable. Rather, I think there could be several reasons why the wood looks 
discoloured in the photos. For example, at the time they were taken, Mr P simply might not 
have gotten around to treating it. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that these photos allow 
me to safely conclude the wall suffered from a lack of maintenance and was already 
unstable prior to the storm.
 
Additionally, Tesco mentioned that Mr Ps wall was missing mortar in places. But that still 
doesnt persuade me the wall was already unstable before the storm. In fact, the surveyors 
report which Tesco relied upon states that Mr Ps wall seems to have been in average 
condition for its age. Which doesnt suggest to me that the wall was in any immediate risk of 
falling before the storm occurred. 
Further, Im aware Tesco also considered poor or faulty workmanship as part of its decision 
to decline Mr Ps claim. It mentioned the wall wouldve been weaker because the brickwork 
was only single-skin  but I dont think thats enough to be certain of existing instability in the 
structure before the storm. As the investigator pointed out, Mr Ps boundary wall to the side 
of his property  of the same design  was still standing and intact after the storm. Its 
reasonable to say that if single-skin brickwork was the issue, this wall would likely have 
suffered some damage too. But it didnt, so I dont think Tesco can fairly rely on poor or 
faulty workmanship as a reason to decline Mr Ps claim. 
To sum up  as I outlined at the start of this decision  the key issue here is whether it was 
wear and tear, or the storm, which was the dominant cause of the damage. And, given what 
Ive said above, I dont think Tesco has enough to conclusively show the dominant cause 
was wear and tear  rather than the storm. I think its more likely that the storm was the 
event which caused Mr Ps wall to collapse, and the gradual deterioration to the bases of the wooden posts was brought to light as a result. Im satisfied Mr P wouldnt reasonably have 
been aware of that gradual damage  so I dont think Tesco acted fairly when it decided to 
decline his claim.
Putting things right
Its important to note that Mr Ps policy doesnt cover losses to gates, hedges or fences as a 
result of a storm. Nor have I seen that Mr P bought accidental damage cover with his policy.
So, Tesco should:
settle Mr Ps claim for the damage to his wall in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman