DRN-3855178
The complaint
Mr S complains that Wirex Limited wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a scam. 
Hes also unhappy about its decision to close his account.
Mr S is being represented by a solicitor in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns eight transactions totalling around €26,850 (excluding transaction 
fees) which Mr S made using his Wirex card over a period of two weeks in July 2020. He 
thought he was paying a genuine fashion retailer, but it turned out to be a scam. Mr S is 
unhappy with Wirexs actions in relation to his chargeback request and its subsequent 
decision to close his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme operator to process 
settlement disputes between the card issuer (on behalf of the cardholder) and the 
merchant. It isnt a legal right that the cardholder has. And its the card scheme 
operator that sets its chargeback rules. 
Mr Ss card was issued under the Visa card scheme by Wirexs banking partner at 
the time, C. This means that although Mr Ss dealings were with Wirex, it was C 
that instigated the chargeback here.
Visas chargeback rules set out different reasons that it considers valid for a 
chargeback. Scam isnt one of them. In Mr Ss case, it appears that the most 
appropriate chargeback reason code would be merchandise/services not received. 
Looking at the available information, I can see that Wirex used that reason code to 
log the dispute with C. And while I appreciate Mr Ss frustration with being asked to 
provide specific documentary evidence, Wirex was simply following Visas 
requirements for supporting documentation for that specific chargeback reason code. 
Although Mr S didnt provide everything that was required, Wirex still went ahead and 
provided the information to C, who then initiated a chargeback for each transaction 
under the appropriate reason code. Im therefore satisfied that Wirex acted fairly in 
the steps it took.
The merchant, who Mr Ss payments went to, responded to the chargeback and 
defended it. This was on the grounds that it was a payment processor and the 
service requested  collection of the payment from Mr S and sending it on to the 
beneficiarys account  was provided. I can see that C relayed this information to 
Wirex and it informed Mr S accordingly. I can also see that Mr S was given an 
opportunity to provide further evidence, and Wirex was willing to forward that on to C 
for its consideration in whether to take the chargeback to arbitration. I cant see that 
Mr S provided further evidence. 
Mr Ss representative has asked to see the evidence that the merchant submitted to 
defend the chargeback. The investigator reached out to Wirex as well as to C, but 
unfortunately neither party held that information. The response weve received from 
C suggests that Visa would have the evidence in its archives. That may well be the 
case, but our service cant compel third parties like Visa to share information with us. 
Mr S and his representative are free to contact Visa should they so desire. 
Mr S submits that he was scammed and didnt know that the payments went to a 
payment processor. While I acknowledge his comments, theyre not a consideration 
under the relevant chargeback rules in whether the merchant thats been paid has 
provided the service. 
Ive been unable to independently verify that the merchant Mr S paid is indeed a 
payment processor. But both Wirex and C have told our service that it is. So, as far 
as my considerations go, Im satisfied that Mr S was informed of the merchants 
reasons for defending the chargeback and he had the opportunity to provide 
additional evidence if he didnt agree with those reasons. As he didnt, Im not 
persuaded that Wirex acted unfairly in the role it played in the chargeback process. 
Im satisfied that it did whats expected of it.
Ive gone on to consider Wirexs responsibility to protect Mr S from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud, as there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for an electronic money institution like Wirex to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment. An example of this would be if a 
payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the 
account. Looking at the account activity in the months leading up to the scam, I dont 
consider the transactions were that unusual or uncharacteristic such that I think 
Wirex ought to have intervened and made further enquiries. Given this, I dont 
consider Wirex acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made.
Ive also looked into Mr Ss concerns about the account closure. As a regulated 
financial business, Wirex has legal and regulatory obligations to monitor accounts 
and understand how the account is being operated. This can involve asking a 
customer for further information to confirm their identity and source of funds, as 
happened here. And if Wirex doesnt receive a satisfactory response to the required 
information, then its not unreasonable for it to place restrictions on the account and 
ultimately end its relationship with a customer. Wirexs terms and conditions entitle it 
to close an account under certain circumstances. Ive considered the reasons Wirex 
has provided for closing Mr Ss account immediately, and Im satisfied they apply in 
this case. So, I dont find that Wirex has acted unfairly this regard.
Overall, I dont find that Wirex has acted unreasonably in its handling of Mr Ss chargeback 
request and in its decision to close his account. I recognise that Mr S feels very strongly 
about his complaint and that this will come as a considerable disappointment to him. But I dont find that hes been treated unfairly by Wirex. As such, I wont be asking it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman