DRN-3075072
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him Select, Platinum and 
Premier packaged bank accounts, which were sold to him sometime prior to September 
2001, January 2005 and September 2006, respectively.
Mr M says that the packaged accounts were mis-sold because he requested an overdraft 
limit increase and was given no alternative but to upgrade his account to secure the 
increase. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the packaged accounts 
had been mis-sold. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I have to decide what I think was most likely 
to have happened, based on everything that is available. And having weighed everything up, 
I dont think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold.
Mr M says that when he went to increase his overdraft, he was given no alternative but to 
upgrade his account. Due to how long ago the Select account was sold, its not clear when 
exactly it was sold. I know it was first launched by Lloyds in January 1997. And the earliest 
statements that Lloyds has been able to provide show that Mr M held the Select account in 
September 2001. So it mustve been sold to Mr M at some point between 1997 and 
September 2001.
Looking at the evidence that Lloyds has provided, I can see that Mr M increased his 
overdraft multiple times before the Select account had been launched by Lloyds, and was 
increased at various times between 1997 and September 2001 too. So Mr M was able to 
increase his arranged overdraft limit multiple times before the Select account was sold to 
him. And I cant see anything to show that the Select account was necessarily sold at the 
same time as one of the overdraft limit increases. Therefore, I think its more likely that Mr M 
was aware that he did not have to have a fee-paying Select account, to increase his 
overdraft facility.
When Mr M took out the Platinum account, I can see that his arranged overdraft facility was 
increased to £1,500. However, I can see that Mr M had been able to increase his overdraft 
whilst he still held the Select account. This again makes me think that Mr M was aware he 
did not need to upgrade his account (again) to increase his overdraft facility. And when Mr M 
agreed to the Premier account, I cant see that his overdraft limit changed, and from what I 
can see, it stayed at £1,500 for some time. So I think its also unlikely that Mr M agreed to 
upgrade to the Premier account because he thought he needed to, to increase his overdraft 
limit.
All of the accounts in question included an interest-free and charge-free overdraft benefit  
which was £50 for the Select account, £250 for Platinum and £500 for the Premier account, 
with lower rates of interest charged on overdrawn balances above those amounts, up to the 
arranged limit. As these were key features of the accounts, and as his overdraft was clearly 
important to Mr M, I think its likely that these benefits wouldve been discussed with Mr M, 
during the sale of each account. 
Therefore, when taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr M agreed to 
upgrade his account because he was told about the benefits the packaged accounts 
provided and he was attracted to them - rather than because he thought he had no choice 
but to do so, to increase his overdraft facility.
I understand that Lloyds recommended the accounts to Mr M. This means that it had to 
make sure that they were a reasonably good fit for Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
In addition to the overdraft benefit, the Select account included breakdown cover as well as 
lower rates of interest on loans (compared to what wouldve been available to Mr M, if hed 
continued with a standard fee-free account). Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr 
M was driving at the time. So I think that Mr M wouldve been able to benefit from the 
breakdown cover - in addition to the banking benefits that the account provided. I therefore 
think Lloydss recommendation that Mr M upgrade to the Select account seems reasonable 
in the circumstances.
When the Platinum account was sold this included worldwide travel insurance (with the 
option to select either family cover, or winter sports cover for the account holders), airport 
lounge access and commission free travel money. It also included other features such as 
enhanced breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection.
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr M travelled to Asia a couple of months after 
the Platinum account was upgraded. And I can see that Mr M went on to use the breakdown 
cover a number of times whilst he held the Platinum account  this included using the Home 
Start cover, which was not available on cheaper packaged accounts at the time. Therefore, 
in the circumstances, Lloydss recommendation again seems reasonable, as Mr M was able 
to make use of the Platinum account breakdown cover, travel insurance and the overdraft 
benefits too. 
When the Premier account was sold to Mr M, this included the Platinum account features but 
also included cover for both family and winter sports cover under the worldwide travel 
insurance. It also included enhanced breakdown cover as well as Identity theft protection 
and home emergency cover. It also increased the amount of Mr Ms overdraft that was 
interest and charge-free to £500, and included lower rates of interest (compared to the 
Platinum account) on overdrawn balances above this amount, up to the arranged limit.
Again the account looks to have been a good fit for Mr Ms circumstances at the time as Mr 
M was able to (and did) make use of the various products that the account came with.
I appreciate that Mr M may not have been able to make use of, or needed, all of the benefits 
that the accounts provided. But as the accounts were sold as a package, Mr M was unable 
to pick and choose what they came with. So I dont think its the case that the accounts were 
mis-sold just because Mr M may not have needed, or been able to use, every product that 
the accounts came with.
In addition to making sure the accounts were a good fit for Mr Ms circumstances, Lloyds 
was also required to ensure Mr M was provided with all of the important information about 
the accounts. And from what I can see, it seems that Mr M was made aware of the main 
features of the account (as he went on to use them). And it seems he was aware of the cost 
of the packaged accounts too.
I accept its possible that Mr M was not given all of the important information about the 
benefits that came with the packaged accounts. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
accounts, had he been given more information about them.
It therefore follows that I dont think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I appreciate 
that Mr M may be disappointed by my decision, as I can see he feels very strongly about this 
matter. But Ive not seen enough evidence to say that its more likely than not that the 
accounts were mis-sold. 
As such, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay back the account fees that 
Mr M paid for the packaged accounts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman