DRN-3004995
The complaint
Mrs K complains Glow Green LTD hasnt compensated her sufficiently for an incorrectly 
installed boiler and subsequent poor service. She also says she was misled about the terms 
of her finance agreement.
What happened
 Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in her view letter so I trust 
both parties will understand if I keep this summary brief. I would add that I have considered 
all the information provided by both Mrs K and Glow Green. 
In November 2019 Glow Green supplied and installed a new boiler in Mrs Ks house. The 
following day Mrs K reported a leak and issues with the thermostat. In January 2020 she told 
Glow Green the boiler had stopped working and this had affected her health. The business 
sent an engineer a couple of days later and he made some minor changes which resulted in 
the boiler working again.
Mrs K says that the engineer told her the original setting of the thermostat had caused it to 
remain on continuously. 
She contacted the boiler manufacturer directly and it sent an engineer. He said the pipes to 
the boiler were not large enough and this caused problems with the pressure. He also 
notified Glow Green. It told Mrs K that the thermostat control wasnt part of the installation 
agreement and further work wasnt covered. 
An engineer was due to arrive on 9 February but failed to turn up. Mrs K says that she took 
food out of her freezer to allow it to be moved for access and this was lost.  She says she 
was stressed and lost her car key. Glow Green offered to inspect the work it had carried out 
and replace the thermostat. 
At this point Mrs K brought her complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Mrs K sought to resolve the problem with the boiler by engaging a third-party 
engineer who replaced the pipes at a cost of £333.43. Glow Green offered to cover this cost 
and to pay £50 compensation for the missed appointment. 
With regard to the contract Mrs K said that she believed her payments would be deferred by 
12 months, but Glow Green said that she didnt qualify for this regime but had signed up to a 
12-month interest free deal. 
Mrs K also asked about the terms of her warranty and the regular services. Our investigator 
explained this was not part of Mrs K complaint but she sought to assist in obtaining 
clarification.
Our investigator didnt consider Glow Greens offer was sufficient and suggested the 
compensation be increased to £250. She thought Glow Green should reduce the sum owed 
by Mrs K by £333.43 and £250. 
Mrs K thought Glow Green should write off her outstanding balance, pay for the pipe repairs 
and pay compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of my colleagues has considered if the agreement is regulated and he has confirmed 
that it falls within this services remit.
It is clear that there were some issues with the fitting of the replacement boiler and Mrs K 
has suffered distress which comes through in her correspondence and phone calls. I believe 
there has also been some confusion as to what was agreed with Glow Green not least about 
the terms of the agreement.
On the matter of the agreement I am satisfied that Glow Green offered Mrs K a 12-month 
deferment and while Mrs K may have thought it was something else I cannot say that the 
business was responsible for that confusion. I have noted that the agreement was verbal but 
I consider Glow Green has provided her with what she agreed and there is no basis for 
changing it.
As to the fitting of the boiler it seems that the pipes were not the correct size and this caused 
some of the issues Mrs K faced. I consider it only right that Glow Green pay for the cost of 
replacing the pipes.
I can see that the Glow Green engineer who was due to deal with the problem failed to arrive 
due to the death of a close family member, but regrettably Mrs K didnt accept this 
explanation. However, I am satisfied that his explanation was genuine. 
She says she had emptied her freezer and has sent us photographs to show that the 
contents had defrosted. I consider it was her decision to defrost the freezer in advance of the 
engineers visit and I cannot say that Glow Green can be held responsible for that. Nor can it 
be regarded as responsible for the loss of her car keys when she moved her car. I 
appreciate she may have been stressed, but I cannot ask that the business pay for the 
replacement key.
As for the issue of the warranty Glow Green has clarified how this works and while it may not 
be as Mrs K would want it is what is available. I appreciate she has lost trust in the business, 
but it offers the warranty subject to its terms and conditions and it offers servicing. It is up to 
Mrs K to decide if she wishes Glow Green to service her boiler. 
I understand Mrs K doesnt want to pay Glow Green any more, but the reality is that she has 
had a new boiler fitted and despite the initial problems I gather it is working satisfactorily. It is 
only right that she should pay for it. However, she has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience and for that some compensation is due. I consider the proposed £250 to be 
more than fair. 
Putting things right
 Glow Green should cover the cost of the pipe repair and pay compensation 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Glow Green LTD to cover the 
cost of the pipework of £333.43 and pay her £250 in compensation. These sums should be deducted from her outstanding balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman