DRN-3376861
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made an irresponsible 
lending decision when providing him with a personal loan.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W took out a personal loan with NatWest for £6000. The loan was to 
be repaid over a period of 60 months with a monthly repayment of £156.10, giving a total 
amount repayable of £9366. This loan was taken out after Mr W had recently increased the 
level of his overdraft facility with NatWest three times in short succession. This service also 
looked at the lending decision made on the overdraft under a separate reference. 
In February 2020, Mr W complained to NatWest about its decision to provide him the 
personal loan. He felt it was clear from his account usage at the time that he was spending 
more than his income and there was a number of gambling transactions on his account. He 
felt this should have given them cause to question if the loan was affordable. 
NatWest said the loan was applied for online and the checks carried out where automated. 
Mr W met its lending criteria when the loan was applied for and his application successful. It 
didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly or that it would have acted differently had other 
information about Mr Ws spending been available.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint and didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong.  He reviewed the checks carried out when the loan was taken out and didnt think 
these demonstrated anything to suggest the loan was likely going to be unsustainable for 
Mr W. The credit check information didnt show any signs of concern and the income 
expenditure completed  although based on estimated typical living cost values  showed 
that Mr W would have a disposable income each month after the loan repayment had been 
made.
As the income expenditure was based on typical values and not Mr Ws specific income and 
expenditure our investigator also reviewed the bank statements for the months preceding the 
application. He could see there was several gambling transactions on the account but this 
amounted to no more than 5% of the monthly disposable income spending, so he didnt think 
it was reasonable to expect this to cause concern or prompt further checks. He also noted a 
large number of cash withdrawals from the account and Mr W said this was primarily used 
for gambling as well. The investigator was grateful that Mr W was able to communicate 
honestly to him about the spending, but he didnt think it would have been fair to expect 
NatWest to be aware of the purpose of these withdrawals at the time. 
Overall he didnt think NatWest lent to Mr W irresponsibly due to the level of gambling 
activity visible on the bank statement so even if it had manually reviewed this information, he 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.   
Mr W disagreed. He thought the rate at which he spent his available overdraft limit ahead of 
the loan application should have been given more consideration and felt this demonstrated 
he was struggling to meet his financial commitments. 
Our investigator said that he had considered the use of the overdraft but didnt think it 
changed his opinion. He thought the fact Mr W had remained within his agreed overdraft limit 
showed his spending wasnt necessarily out of control. He also said the loan was taken to 
consolidate £2000 of the overdraft debt and because of this, he didnt think it meant NatWest 
needed to do more with its checks or that it was irresponsible when providing the loan.
Because Mr W disagreed still, the complaint has been passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr W, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
This service has an established approach to irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints 
which can be found on our website and Ive followed this approach when considering Mr Ws 
complaint.
The rules and regulations relevant at the time NatWest provided Mr W with the loan are set 
by the FCA in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules. These required NatWest to 
carry out an assessment of credit worthiness with reasonable and proportionate checks to 
determine whether Mr W could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
needed to be borrower focused, so giving consideration to whether making the repayments 
in a sustainable way could result in difficulties to Mr W.
There is no set list of checks defined as reasonable and proportionate and as these checks 
need to be borrower focused, it follows that this could be different from one person to the 
next.
NatWest feels the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and that from 
these, it was clear the loan was affordable to Mr W. So they believed hed be able to meet 
the repayments without it being likely to cause difficulties or harm. 
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by NatWest were reasonable and 
proportionate based on the size of the loan and its duration. Mr W was looking to borrow a 
relatively large amount over a period of five years  so it was a significant commitment. But 
this was also taken with a view to reduce the overall balance of Mr Ws overdraft and had the 
benefit of doing this with a set monthly repayment.
NatWest relied on its automated checks to determine whether it was prepared to lend to 
Mr W, reviewing his application against its lending criteria. It had the benefit of being able to 
apply what it new about his account management as well as the credit score information 
returned with the check and this all fed into the answer. But it didnt manually review any of 
the information and this was all done with automated checks. Even the income expenditure 
was based on typical estimated values. But I think based on the size of the loan, the 
reduction in the overdraft debt and term of the borrowing, that the checks carried out where 
reasonable and proportionate. Mr W points out that his spending behaviour prior to the loan application being made should 
have been a flag to the loan not being affordable. He feels with three successive overdraft 
balance increases in this short space of time, it was clear he was spending more than his 
income. As Ive said the application and its checks were automated with the loan agreement 
being taken out online and I think these were reasonable. But for completeness, as our 
investigator did, Ive considered whether further with the checks would have shown the loan 
wasnt affordable. 
I cant know what checks NatWest might have decided to do if it felt this was needed, but as 
it had access to Mr Ws bank statements, it feels reasonable to have reviewed the 
information on these too. But I think even if NatWest had gone further and reviewed the 
information on Mr Ws bank statements manually, it would have shown the loan was likely 
affordable to Mr W.
As our investigator has said, there was some transactions on Mr Ws account which related 
to online gambling. But the value of these compared to the overall available expenditure was 
small with less than 5% of the monthly disposable income being spent on these. And 
although there was a considerable amount of cash withdrawn from the account over this 
time, I dont think it would have been clear what the purpose of these withdrawals was. I 
understand Mr W has said the majority was used for gambling transactions and Im grateful 
for his honesty here, but I dont think NatWest would have been aware of this at the time.
Overall the statements showed that Mr W was able to stay within his agreed overdraft limit 
and pay his bills with a disposable income left over. The loan was taken to reduce his level 
of overdraft as well as fund a number of other things and he wasnt increasing his level on 
debt by the full amount.. So together with the credit check information and income 
expenditure information gather by NatWest, I think further checks would have supported the 
loan was likely affordable. And NatWest hasnt acted irresponsibly when providing the loan.
I appreciate Mr W has later found himself in financial difficulties and NatWest has helped 
with this by arranging repayment plans as well as providing details for support with gambling 
and problem spending. I think its acted fairly here and I dont think it needs to do anything 
else in relation to the loan application.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman