DRN-3408411
The complaint
Mr D complained that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow acted irresponsibly when it gave 
him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr D took out three cash4unow loans as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
Repayment
1 11/03/2015 27/03/2015 2 £200 £124.14
2 27/03/2015 24/04/2015 2 £300 £206.18
3 05/10/2016 28/10/2016 3 £200 £96.39
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and cash4unow told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ds 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
cash4unow to ask Mr D for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think cash4unow had any information which shouldve prompted it to 
check what Mr D had said in his loan applications.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr D had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from cash4unow shouldve alerted 
cash4unow to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr D mainly said that during loan 1 and loan 2 hed made cash4unow aware he 
was in no position to make repayments, yet they continued irresponsibly to provide finance 
to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr D that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator.
Cash4unow provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow agreed to Mr Ds applications after carrying out affordability checks and it relied 
on information Mr D provided about his monthly income and expenditure, including what he 
was spending on his existing credit commitments. 
Keeping in mind everything that Mr D and cash4unow  have said, I've looked at each loan in 
turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan Mr D didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve 
alerted cash4unow to any underlying money problems and I think cash4unow was 
reasonably entitled to rely on information Mr D provided. From what I can see, Mr D declared 
an income of £1,500 and after paying his declared outgoings (which included an amount of 
£300 that Mr D said he was spending on other credit) it still looked as though Mr D should 
have had around £375 left over. As cash4unow had also allowed for a £100 buffer to 
provide a safety margin for variations in income and expenditure or emergency spending, 
this shouldve comfortably been enough to cover the cost of the repayments on this loan. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr D applied for a more substantial loan this time which he used 
to pay loan 1 and provide him with some extra cash. But I cant fairly say that, at that stage, 
Mr D had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay for loan 1 and I dont think 
cash4unow had any reason to think that his borrowing pattern suggested he was in serious 
financial difficulty. 
The figures hed declared and the information cash4unow had collected appear to support 
cash4unows lending decision. Although the monthly repayments on this loan were 
significantly more than hed paid for loan 1, they still looked comfortably affordable for Mr D.
Cash4unow took into account his spending on other credit  £200 according to Mr D  along 
with this other declared expenses which came to £520. His income was unchanged since 
loan 1.So I think the information cash4unow had gathered suggested Mr D had ample disposable 
income to be able to pay the monthly repayments for loan 2. 
Despite what Mr  D has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that cash4unow had recorded for Mr D, or anything else that it 
shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made cash4unow think this loan wasnt affordable 
for Mr D when he took it out. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
I dont think cash4unow had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for him when he took it out.
On the figures hed declared, it wouldve appeared to cash4unow that Mr D should still have 
had more than £400 left over after paying for all his other financial commitments and ample 
to cover the £96 or so needed for the monthly repayments for this loan. And although this 
was the third time hed borrowed from cash4unow, there had been a 6 month gap since hed 
paid loan 2 and this was a smaller loan amount. I dont think this pointed to Mr D having 
serious money problems. 
So I dont think cash4unows lending decision was unfair or unreasonable in these 
circumstances.   
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about whether cash4unow shouldve asked 
more searching questions or done more to verify Mr Ds financial situation as Mr D believes 
it ought to have done. But I think the checks it carried out were a proportionate given the 
loan terms and amounts and given what Mr D had told cash4unow about his finances. And 
I think that cash4unow gave Mr D fair opportunity to provide relevant information about his 
spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to rely on the information 
he provided. The information it gathered didnt reveal anything that shouldve prompted 
cash4unow to probe more deeply into Mr Ds reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify 
what he was saying. 
Overall, Cash4unows lending decisions dont seem irresponsible or unreasonable to me 
looking at the information cash4unow relied on. And I think what I've said about its approach 
to lending is borne out by the fact that cash4unow offered Mr D a smaller loan than the 
amount he applied for when he took out loan 2 which suggests to me that it did carefully 
consider affordability in a responsible way. 
Im very sorry that Mr D found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Ds financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided 
or the other information cash4unow obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to 
be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that cash4unow 
did anything wrong in deciding to lend these loans to Mr D. I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr D but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman