DRN-2827015
The complaint
Miss B complains about AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AC) and their decision to approve her 
high interest loan.
What happened
In January 2016, Miss B applied for a high interest loan with AC. This application was 
approved and Miss B was given a loan of £7,900 with a monthly repayment of £369.28 over 
36 months. This meant Miss B would repay £13,294.02 in total.
But Miss B struggled to meet this monthly repayment and had to agree a repayment plan 
with AC to make smaller payments over a longer period of time. Miss B was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss B thought AC had acted irresponsibly when approving the loan. She explained she was 
already in financial difficulty when the loan was approved and because of this, she was 
unable to meet the monthly repayments. So, she needed to take further credit to ensure she 
and her children were able to live day to day. She thought AC shouldve done more to 
ensure the loan was affordable and that if they had, the loan wouldnt have been approved. 
So, Miss B wanted AC to close the account, waive the outstanding balance and repay her 
any interest and charges that shed paid. She also wanted AC to remove any negative 
markers reported to her credit file.
AC responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks to 
ensure the loan was affordable, taking into consideration Miss Bs declared income, the 
income shown on her bank statement and the information shown on her credit file at the 
time. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. But they did offer Miss B the 
chance to discuss her options with them if she was struggling to meet the payments of her 
existing agreement with them. Miss B was unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought AC had completed 
proportionate checks before approving Miss Bs loan. And he thought AC had assessed the 
information these checks provided fairly when decided the loan was affordable. So, he didnt 
think AC needed to do anything more.
Miss B didnt agree. She questioned how AC had decided upon the income she was 
receiving at the time as she didnt think information was correct. She also didnt think all of 
her expenses had been taken into consideration as she paid most of her bills using a cash 
card rather than through a bank account. She maintained her view that AC had approved her 
loan irresponsibly and so, she wanted to be compensated for this. As Miss B didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss B. I recognise Miss B 
finds herself in financial difficulty and this has been made worse by a change in her personal 
circumstances. I appreciate Miss B has children to provide for and I understand how this 
would create even more pressure for her when trying to stabilise her finances. So, I can 
understand why Miss B would look back at the loan provided by AC and feel this played a 
large part in the situation she finds herself in as she struggled to maintain the monthly 
payments very early into the term of the loan. But for me to say AC have done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied that checks they completed before approving the loan failed 
to be proportionate to the amount Miss C received. Or, if I think the checks were, Id need to 
be satisfied AC failed to assess the information these checks provided fairly meaning their 
decision to approve the loan was irresponsible. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Ive first thought about whether the checks AC completed were proportionate to the loan 
Miss B was provided, based on her income at the time. Im aware Miss B disputes the 
income information AC used and shes made several comments about this.
Ive seen the initial application Miss B made. And Ive seen in this, she initially declared her 
monthly income as £2,948 after tax. And Ive seen based on this amount, AC initially 
intended to provide Miss B with a loan of £9,000. But Ive also seen that following this, AC 
completed checks using an income specialist based on Miss Bs credit file which determined 
her average monthly income to be £2,518.76. 
Ive seen ACs system notes which confirm they discussed this with Miss B at the time and a 
new loan agreement was sent to her based on this new income, this time providing a loan of 
£7,900. Miss B signed the documents relating to this loan, and it was approved. So, Im 
satisfied Miss B was aware of the income information AC were using to determine the 
affordability of the loan and was happy for AC to proceed on this basis.
But I do recognise Miss B has disputed this with our service. And Ive seen Miss Bs payslip 
the November before the loan was approved, which shows her income from paid 
employment was £2,037.28. So, I understand why shed disputed this. But crucially, paid 
employment wasnt Miss Bs only source of income. I can see in the same month, Miss B 
received £471.04 in child tax credit and £192.40 in child benefit. So, in November 2015, Miss 
Bs income was £2,700.92. And in December, Miss B received £2,841.78 for the same three 
sources of income. So, I think AC actually considered Miss Bs application based on a lower 
income than she received.
Ive seen AC considered this income information against Miss Bs credit file and her existing 
commitments reported on this. They also considered Miss Bs employment and residential 
status. Considering the total loan equated to around three months average income for Miss 
B, I think these checks were proportionate to the loan Miss B received. So, I dont think I can 
say AC acted unfairly here.
Ive then thought about whether AC considered the information these checks provided fairly. 
Ive seen ACs search of Miss Bs credit file actually calculated her gross annual salary to be 
over £48,000 a year. Im aware this wasnt Miss Bs annual salary but this was a calculation generated by a computerised system and in any event, this wasnt the salary or monthly 
income AC used to decide whether the loan was affordable. So, I dont this this impacts the 
decision Ive reached.
ACs analysis of Miss Bs credit file showed her monthly repayments equated to £819 a 
month. Ive looked at the credit file Miss B provided and this is the exact amount of her 
monthly payments to her other loan and car finance at the time. So, I think AC analysed Miss 
Bs credit file accurately to understand her existing financial commitments. So, when AC 
factored in Miss Bs monthly repayment for their loan, Miss Bs monthly commitments 
totalled £1,188.28. This mean, based on the information AC had available to them, Miss B 
had over £1,300 disposable income remaining. Because of this, I think AC were reasonable 
when assuming the monthly loan repayment would be affordable to Miss B.
I appreciate Miss B disputes this disposable income and says she needed to pay rent as well 
as extensive childcare costs. But I dont think AC wouldve been aware of this at the time. 
And Ive seen from Miss Bs application that she stated she was living in rented 
accommodation but wasnt paying towards the rent. Ive seen nothing to suggest AC 
shouldve challenged this at the time. And if this was incorrect, Id have expected Miss B to 
correct this when she spoke to AC before she agreed to the lesser loan and I cant see that 
she did.
I can see AC also considered the way Miss B had maintained her open accounts. And I can 
see there were no defaults reported to her credit file at the time and shed managed her 
existing accounts well, with no late or missed payment markers. Her credit file also showed 
shed taken out no pay day or short-term loans in the six months before the application. So, I 
dont think there was any information shown on Miss Bs credit file that shouldve suggested 
to AC that the loan was unaffordable or that Miss B was struggling financially. And so, I dont 
think there was anything shown in the information AC had available to them that shouldve 
led them to decline the loan application.
I appreciate Miss B had a Country Court Judgement made against her in July 2015 and 
shes provided me with this judgement to consider. This related to unpaid rent arrears. And I 
understand why she feels this judgement is relevant to this investigation and why this shows 
the loan was unaffordable. 
But crucially, Ive seen no evidence to show this judgement was reported to Miss Bs credit 
file. Its not unusual for this to be the case as rental agreements arent usually reported. And 
Ive seen no evidence to show Miss B made AC aware of this judgment when she applied for 
the loan. So, I dont think AC couldve been aware of this judgement, and the impact this had 
on Miss Bs financial situation, at the time they decided to approve the loan. So, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to say AC lent to Miss B irresponsibly because of this judgement as they 
werent able to consider it.
So, because of the above, I think AC assessed the information they had available to them 
fairly when deciding to approve Miss Bs loan. And because of this, I dont think they need to 
do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for. And I recognise this wont help 
address her current financial situation which I recognise has been affected by a change in 
her personal circumstances. But Im only able to direct AC to do something if I think theyve 
acted unfairly. And I dont think they have in this situation.
Im pleased to hear AC have offered Miss B repayment options which consider her financial 
situation. Id expect AC to continue to act positively and sympathetically to Miss Bs situation 
while a balance remains outstanding.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman