DRN-3270938
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) has 
unfairly declined their home insurance claim. Reference to Ocaso will include those who 
acted on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S made a claim with Ocaso under their home insurance policy when their house 
suffered an escape of water. Mrs and Mr S are represented here by another person, but for 
simplicity I will refer only to Mrs and Mr S.
Mrs and Mr S had purchased the house to live in, but at the time of the loss they still lived in 
another property which they intended to rent to tenants once they had moved into their new 
home.
Their house was purchased on 7 January 2021 and shortly after this their family was 
affected by covid. Mr S moved into the house so that he could self-isolate and he says he 
lived in the house with a minimum of personal items as he was following government 
guidelines about moving belongings and using removal companies.
On 13 February Mr S left the house to visit his family and when he returned, on 15 February, 
he discovered a significant water leak. He dealt with the immediate water leak and contacted 
Ocaso to make a claim. Ocaso sent a loss adjuster who visited the house with Mr S on 18 
February. 
In Ocasos report the loss adjuster details how the escape of water probably happened and 
shows pictures of considerable damage to the house. It estimated a total claim in the region 
of £20,000. The report also says that the house had a single mattress, bedding, minimal 
crockery and cutlery and that there was no evidence of the property being resided in and no 
items of furniture or possession[s] at the property.
Mrs and Mr S paid for some work to be done to mitigate their loss, including renting 
dehumidifiers and having walls and ceilings stripped at a cost of around £1,900.
Ocaso then declined the claim. It said that the following section of the policy wording applied 
to Mrs and Mr Ss claim: 
PERILS COVERED
ESCAPE OF WATER from and FROST DAMAGE to fixed water tanks, apparatus or 
pipes.
EXCLUSIONS
This Insurance does NOT cover: c) Loss or damage whilst the Buildings are 
insufficiently furnished for normal habitation.
Ocaso declined the claim because it said that the house wasnt sufficiently furnished for 
normal habitation.
Mr S has said that his personal effects and clothing had been stored in a cupboard and that 
food had been kept in the fridge. The water damage had affected the electrical system in the 
house and he had been advised to not use it, so he had removed most of the food and 
personal belongings before Ocasos visit.
Mrs and Mr S were unhappy with Ocasos decision so they complained. Ocaso issued a final 
response letter on 16 August restating its position, so Mrs and Mr S brought their complaint 
to this service. Mrs and Mr S would like Ocaso to deal with the claim, get the repairs done, 
refund their expenses incurred and pay for loss of rent on their existing property that they 
were unable to let out as they were still living there.
Our investigator issued a view that upheld most of Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. He said Ocaso 
had used an exclusion that was unfair and unreasonable. He said that Ocasos loss adjuster 
had confirmed that there was some evidence that the house was being lived in, and he 
agreed that Mrs and Mr S were following government guidelines. He said that the lack of 
furnishings in the house meant that the claim amount would be lower than what would be 
otherwise expected.
He said that the exclusion was unfair and unreasonable so Ocaso should handle the claim 
and refund Mrs and Mr Ss costs theyd incurred mitigating the loss. He also said that Ocaso 
should pay £250 compensation to Mrs and Mr S for its poor handling of the claim.
Our investigator didnt think Ocaso should pay for Mrs and Mr Ss loss of rent on their 
existing property as there was no guarantee that the property would actually have been let 
out.
Mrs and Mr S agreed with the view, but Ocaso didnt respond. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
In this case I have to consider whether Ocaso declined the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it came to a fair and reasonable decision. The exclusion 
applied by Ocaso is mentioned above and its clear from the description and photos Ive 
seen that the house was sparsely furnished at the time. But Mrs and Mr S were dealing with 
illness in their family at the time due to the impact of covid. They said to Ocaso that they 
originally planned to move into the house in mid-January but that the move was disrupted by 
the illnesses and government guidelines at the time.
The purpose of an exclusion like the one Ocaso use is generally to prevent claims 
happening while a property is empty and unoccupied, usually for a significant period of time. 
This is because losses that happen in empty houses might not be discovered for some time, 
meaning that the damage caused would be much greater than if someone was resident. 
But Ocasos wording is different from a standard exclusion of this type because it says that if 
the property was insufficiently furnished then an escape of water claim wouldnt be 
covered. This makes Ocasos exclusion an unusual one compared to other insurance 
companies. So I think Ocaso would need to show that this exclusion had expressly been brought to Mrs and Mr Ss attention if it wanted to rely on it.
For Ocaso to be able to rely on a policy exclusion it needs to demonstrate it has been fairly 
applied and in this case I dont think it has. 
I have read Mrs and Mr Ss evidence to this service and I find it persuasive and plausible. I 
think its clear that Mr S was living at the house as best he could at the time and the lack of 
furnishings in it is not material to the escape of water that happened. The lack of furnishings 
would in any case have reduced the size of the potential loss.
Mr S had left the house for the weekend to see his family and I dont think its unreasonable 
of him to have done so. So it follows that I think Ocaso have acted unreasonably in applying 
the exclusion and I think they should deal with the claim without applying it.
When Mr S discovered the water leak he acted swiftly to deal with the situation and Mrs and 
Mr S have incurred significant costs to mitigate the damage. These costs would normally be 
paid under an escape of water claim so I think Ocaso should refund them to Mrs and Mr S, 
plus 8% interest from the date the costs were incurred.
There have been various delays in Ocaso handling Mrs and Mr Ss claim and complaint 
which I can see have caused them considerable distress and inconvenience, so I agree with 
our investigator that Ocaso should pay them £250 compensation.
Mrs and Mr S have also asked that Ocaso pay for loss of rent on their existing property as 
they were unable to let it out to tenants as they were forced to still live in it. I cant ask Ocaso 
to pay for this loss of rent as theres no certainty that the property would actually have been 
rented out for the period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
Deal with the escape of water claim without applying the exclusion for insufficient 
furnishing.
Refund Mrs and Mr Ss mitigation costs, plus interest at 8% a year simple from the 
date the costs were incurred.*
Pay compensation of £250 for Mrs and Mr Ss distress and inconvenience.
Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mrs and Mr S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.*
*If Ocaso considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 Richard Sowden
Ombudsman