DRN-3520723
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.s (Mapfre) settlement of their travel insurance claim and about its service. 
My references to Mapfre include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N were due to go on holiday abroad from 15 to 22 March 2019 but had to cancel 
due to Mrs Ns back pain. They had a travel insurance policy, insured by Mapfre which they 
had renewed by phone. They claimed on the policy for the cost of the holiday and for a 
nights accommodation near a UK airport.
Mapfre paid some but not all of the costs claimed. It said:
The policy didnt cover the Air Passenger Duty (APD) or ATOL fees charged with the 
booking so it hadnt paid those costs. 
It only paid 90% of the holiday costs because Mrs and Mr N should have cancelled 
sooner and if they had done so they would have received a 10% refund from the 
holiday provider.
Mrs Ns medical history was misrepresented when the policy was renewed. She 
didnt tell it about her back pain and if shed done so it would have charged an extra 
premium. Mapfre said the premium Mrs and Mr N had paid was 83% of what they 
should have paid so it was only paying 83% of the costs covered.
It had deduced an excess of £60 per person.
Mrs and Mr N complained to us, they said:
Theyd answer the questions they were asked at the policy renewal truthfully. 
Anyway they had subsequently done a dummy application on the insurers website 
and there had been no additional premium if they had declared Mrs Ns back pain.
They initially hoped to minimise their losses and rebook their holiday for a later date, 
which would only incur an administration fee. But Mrs Ns consultant then made clear  
he couldnt give a timeframe for when Mrs N would be able to travel.
They thought it was unfair for Mapfre to charge two policy excesses when the claim 
was only due to Mrs Ns medical issue.
Mapfre took too long to deal with the claim and had caused them a lot of stress and 
upset.
As Mapfre had sent us an incomplete file our investigator asked Mapfre several times for 
further information, which we didnt receive. On the available evidence our investigator 
recommended Mapfre pay the full costs claimed plus interest but he said it had fairly 
deducted the two excesses. He also said Mapfre should pay Mrs and Mr N £100 for their 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Mapfre sent us a screen shot which it said would have shown a medical charge if Mrs N 
had declared a medical condition in the renewal call. It said it would send the policy 
documents and policy renewal phone call. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr N dont have the policy documents. Weve asked Mapfre several times to 
provide the policy documents and the policy renewal phone call where it says Mrs N was 
asked medical questions. At the time of making this decision I havent received that 
evidence. Im satisfied weve given Mapfre reasonable time to provide that information and 
I think its fair for me to make my decision on the evidence I have.
The relevant insurance industry rules say that insurers should act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customers. And that insurers 
should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I think Mapfres settlement of the claim and its service wasnt fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
I havent received the policy documents and Mapfre hasnt shown that under the policy terms 
it can deduct the APD and ATOL fees from the claim. I think its reasonable for Mapfre to pay 
those costs.
The cancellation invoice from the holiday provider is dated 2 March 2019. The cancellation 
information shows that as the cancellation was within 14 days of the planned start of the  
holiday no refund was due. If Mrs and Mr N had cancelled within 28 to 15 days from the 
planned start date the provider would have refunded 10%.
The medical certificate from Mrs Ns GP says she was first advised to cancel the holiday on 
21 February 2019, which is nine days before they cancelled. Mapfres letter to Mrs and Mr N 
said it allowed three days for policyholders to cancel a trip once it becomes known they need 
to do so. If they had cancelled within three days the provider should have refunded the 10%. 
But Ive not seen the policy document to show cancellation within three days is required by 
the policy terms. So I think the issue is whether Mrs and Mr N cancelled in a reasonable 
timescale. Mapfre didnt respond to our investigators comments on this issue. Im persuaded 
by what Mrs and Mr N say about wanting to rebook a holiday, which would have minimised 
their lost costs, until they knew that wasnt possible. In the circumstances I think they 
cancelled the holiday in a reasonable timescale. So Mapfre should reasonably pay the full 
holiday costs claimed and not deduct the 10%. 
There are some circumstances, in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012, where I may say that Mapfre could fairly only pay a proportion of 
a claim if Mrs N hadnt told it about her back problem. But I havent seen any evidence from 
Mapfre to show that at the policy renewal Mrs N was asked clear questions about her health 
that she failed to take reasonable care in answering. So Ive no basis to say Mapfre fairly 
applied the proportional payment. On the evidence I have Mapfre should pay the balance of 
claim so that it pays 100% of the costs.
However, I think Mapfre did fairly deduct two excesses. Although Ive not seen the policy 
documents I think its highly likely that the policy says the excess is payable per claim per 
person. It doesnt matter that the claim is only due to Mrs Ns ill-health. She and Mr N are 
claiming for both their costs and its fair for Mapfre to apply an excess for both of them.
Mapfre also didnt comment on our investigators recommendation that it pay £100 to 
Mrs and Mr N for their distress and inconvenience for its delay and handling of their claim. 
I think thats a reasonable amount in the circumstances. Putting things right
Mapfre must pay the balance of the claim so that it pays the full costs Mrs and Mr N claimed 
(less the two excesses already deducted), plus interest as Ive detailed below. It must also 
pay Mrs and Mr N £100 for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.  
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
Mrs and Mr N:
The balance of the claim so that it pays the full costs Mrs and Mr N claimed (less the 
two excesses already deducted). Interest* should be added to the balance at 8% 
simple a year from the date of the claim to the date of settlement of the balance, and 
£100 for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
*If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell 
Mrs and Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr N a certificate showing 
this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman