DRN-2378515
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with Union Reiseversicherung AGs decision to decline her claim.   
What happened
Miss J was unable to catch her flight home from South America because of adverse weather 
conditions. She claimed on her travel insurance policy with URV because she had to book a 
new flight home at an additional cost. She also incurred costs for an additional nights 
accommodation.
URV declined her claim and said that Miss J hadnt purchased the travel disruption element 
of the policy and so there was no cover available in the circumstances.
Our investigator said that was unfair because Miss J had no option to add that benefit at the 
point of sale. She also thought the policy should cover Miss J because of the curtailment 
clause. Our investigator said there was no cover for the additional nights accommodation 
and so she didnt uphold that part of the complaint. 
Miss J accepted our investigators view, but URV didnt. In summary, it said that Miss J didnt 
cancel or curtail her trip, rather, it felt the trip was disrupted and so there was no cover. Its 
now for me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Js complaint. I say that because I believe there 
is cover available for Miss J in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
The policy says;
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for your proportion only of
any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges which
you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable
additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation of the whole trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b. cancellation of a pre-paid excursion booked in your home area up to £250 is
necessary and unavoidable or
c. the trip is curtailed or interrupted before completion  
The relevant part here is C because Im satisfied Miss Js trip was interrupted before 
completion. A hurricane prevented her from taking her original return flight home as all flights 
were cancelled. I understand the argument URV is making about her trip being disrupted 
rather than interrupted, but I think its an unreasonable one. Further, URVs argument for not 
paying her claim is arbitrary. Whether Miss Js trip was disrupted or interrupted doesnt make 
much of a difference here because the fact remains that the hurricane prevented her from 
getting home. This is typically something Miss J should reasonably be able to expect would 
be covered by her insurance. In any event, Im satisfied her trip was interrupted because of 
adverse weather and so the claim should be covered in these circumstances. 
Miss J received a refund from the travel operator for her original flight and so URV should 
pay the difference between that and the new flight, with 8% simple interest, because its 
declined her claim unfairly.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Union Reiseversicherung AG should now pay her claim in 
line with my directions set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman