DRN-3255093
The complaint
Mr B complains Zenith Insurance Plc (Zenith) settled a claim made on his car insurance 
policy and recorded it as a fault claim against him following an accident in July 2019. 
All references to Zenith include its agents.
What happened
Mr B was in a car accident in July 2019. About the accident, he says:
- He was travelling at a slow speed when passing a horse and rider. He wasnt doing 
anything wrong. The rider acknowledged this by raising her hand to thank him for his 
patience and didnt signal for him to stop. This gave him confidence to carry on.
- If hed gone any slower or stopped, he wouldve been a hazard to vehicles travelling 
at 30mph or more behind him.
- The horse was spooked not because of his car but because of seeing its reflection in 
a puddle. This led to the horse rider losing control of her horse and the horse 
damaging the front of his car. 
- The accident was fully captured on his dashcam.
Mr B made a claim to Zenith. Taking everything into account, Zenith considered this to be a 
fault claim against Mr B. It said this was due to the speed he was driving at and so it wouldnt 
pursue the horse rider for any expenses related to the claim. This meant Mr B was asked to 
pay the full excess and the claim would be recorded as a fault claim. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and complained to Zenith, further explaining the accident and 
why he wasnt to blame. He considered the speed he was travelling at to be reasonable in 
the circumstances, particularly where theres no rule on how slow you should travel when 
passing a horse and rider nor a rule that youre required to stop. Further, if hed stopped, he 
felt he wouldve needed to put on his hazard lights which wouldve been a danger to all as 
this can spook a horse. They communicated about these matters. Zenith responded that itd 
considered the dashcam footage but didnt find it supported a claim being pursued against 
the rider. It said the onus is on the car driver to act responsibly to avoid potential harm being 
caused to a horse and rider. In this case, it considered Mr B was going too fast and this 
caused the horse to spook. And, as horses and horse riders are considered vulnerable road 
users, Mr B should have slowed or stopped when he was able to see the horse and allowed 
it to be clear from the junction it had just crossed from. So, Zenith considered itd made the 
correct decision on liability. 
Mr B came to our service. Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold this 
complaint. He explained Mr Bs policy stated it was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit 
and it wasnt our services role to make a decision on liability. Instead, it was our role to 
consider whether Zenith had fairly considered everything in reaching the decision it had. And 
he thought it had. 
Mr B disagrees. He feels hes proved he followed the Highway Code in the dashcam footage 
and so he doesnt consider hes been treated fairly. He says both Zenith and our service 
have failed to make rational decisions. This matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
I know Mr B has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the third 
party was to blame. Hes also given submissions which he says support his view. But its not 
our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a court can 
determine. What Im deciding here is whether Zenith has acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between 
Zenith and Mr B. Terms like this arent unusual as they are a feature of all motor insurance 
policies. This allows Zenith to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. This means it doesnt 
need Mr Bs approval of any decision to admit liability or settle a claim. Zenith isnt obliged to 
take a case to court even if its mentioned the possibility of doing this or the policy holder 
wants it to. Its also allowed to consider the potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. 
That might mean it makes a decision the policy holder disagrees with, as has happened 
here. 
Taking everything into account, I think Zenith handled the claim reasonably by considering 
all the available evidence. And Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when it decided not to pursue the rider for the claim. It considered the dashcam footage and 
what Mr B said, it made contact with the riders insurer and took into account the statement 
Mr B gave. Also, Zenith will have experience of how courts view such matters, and the 
likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. Having done so, it considered Mr B was going 
too fast when passing a vulnerable road user  required to be treated as a hazard  and this 
is more likely to have been what caused the horse to damage his car. 
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
at fault for what happened. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. 
What Ive looked at is whether Zenith has followed the policy terms and handled the claim in 
a fair and reasonable way when deciding to settle the case, as it has done here. And Im 
satisfied it has. It follows that its entitled to require Mr B to pay the excess for this claim. So, 
I wont be asking Zenith to do anything further in relation to this matter.
I accept Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Zenith  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman