DRN-2006211
 
The complaint
Mr P and Ms T complain Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance
(PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 2003.
What happened
On 5 June 2020, I issued a provisional decision in this matter in which I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I said:
 
As things stand, I think this complaint should be upheld, but for different reasons to those
given by our adjudicator.
Barclays told us that it recommended this PPI policy to Mr P and Ms T. So it had to make
sure the policy was suitable for their needs. If it wasnt suitable, then Barclays had to tell Mr
P and Ms T about the unsuitable aspects of the cover.
PPI was sold during a meeting between the parties and Ive been given a copy of the
Barclays record of that appointment. I can see from the discussions between the parties that
Mr P and Ms T already had what appears to have been a freestanding PPI policy. Their
existing mortgage repayments were covered, which were lower than their likely repayments
with their proposed new Barclays mortgage.
However, in spite of Barclays being aware of the existing policy, it still recommended Mr P
and Ms T bought PPI to cover all of their mortgage payment. I cannot see they were told
they would be insured for the same eventuality twice. The evidence before me doesnt
suggest Mr P and Ms T intended to cancel their existing policy.
I appreciate Mr P and Ms T didnt agree to take the PPI policy out straightaway. But I think
they must have changed their mind very shortly afterwards because the cover was effective
from the mortgage start date, during which time Mr P had seemingly submitted two
application forms. I havent seen anything to suggest Barclays amended its advice in that
time.
So I dont think Barclays advice to buy this PPI policy and cover 100% of their mortgage
repayments was suitable when Mr P and Ms T already had some cover in place. Its unlikely
Mr P and Ms T would have thought the cover was good value for money if Barclays had told
them that. It follows that I dont think they would have bought the PPI policy if theyd been
told it wasnt wholly suitable for their needs.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider. Mr P and Ms T did not respond. 
Barclays did reply. It acknowledged it was aware Mr P and Ms T had a mortgage protection 
policy in place. However, it said it would expect a mortgage protection policy to commence 
12 to 24 months after the onset of a medical condition. It said that reference to a shortfall in 
the documents was a reference to the likely shortfall in cover over that deferral period. It said 
there was no evidence to suggest Mr P and Ms T had any short-term mortgage cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive looked at that again before deciding this case. 
 
Having done so, I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld.
 
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays said. Looking at the demands and needs 
statement dated 8 July 2003, it does not refer to a shortfall caused by a deferral period, but 
in the amount of cover. I can see that the value of the new mortgage is listed as £80,000 and 
the value of Mr P and Ms Ts existing cover is said to be £43,000, which reflected their 
existing mortgage balance. The shortfall was then said to be £37,000. It is abundantly clear 
to me that the shortfall referred to the how much cover they had  not the length of time they 
were covered for. 
Barclays also states that it would expect Mr P and Ms Ts existing mortgage protection 
insurance policy to defer payment for 12 to 24 months. But I dont think thats right. I would 
expect such a deferral period in respect of a permanent health insurance or income 
protection policy  not a mortgage protection policy. If Mr P and Ms T fell behind with their 
mortgage repayments, their home could be at risk. For that reason, I would not expect such 
a lengthy deferral in a mortgage protection policy.
 
So, as I said in my provisional decision, Barclays advice to buy this PPI policy and cover 
100% of their mortgage repayments was not suitable when Mr P and Ms T already had 
some cover in place. Its unlikely Mr P and Ms T would have thought the cover was good 
value for money and I dont think theyd have bought this cover if Barclays had told them 
that. 
Putting things right
Barclays must put Mr P and Ms T in the position they would be in now if they
hadnt taken out PPI. It must:
Pay Mr P and Ms T the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P and Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must
give Mr P and Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC must comply with the above putting 
things right section.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman