DRN-3359901
The complaint
Mr A complains Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his claim 
on his home emergency insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Mr A had a home emergency policy with RSA. On 13 October 2020 he contacted it to report 
two blocked toilets on the first floor of his house. 
RSA sent an appointed drainage engineer to his house to unblock the toilets. The engineer 
tried unsuccessfully to remove the blockage with a plunger and high-pressure water jet. The 
engineer said the toilet needed to be removed by a plumber to enable him to get to the 
blockage. 
The following day Mr A said he began to have water coming into his kitchen from a leak from 
the toilet. He said whilst trying to unblock the toilet the engineer had got a plunger tool stuck. 
He said it had made the toilet leak, which made his kitchen ceiling collapse in part and 
damaged the floor and oven. 
Mr A made a complaint to RSA. He said the drainage engineer caused the leak that caused 
the damage in his kitchen. He wants replacements for his oven, light fitting and kitchen floor. 
And further plumbing work, kitchen decoration and compensation. 
RSA referred Mr A to his building and contents insurer if he wished to continue to pursue a 
claim for damage. Mr As home insurance policy accepted his claim and the repairs were 
completed.
Mr A said his home emergency policy should have accepted this claim. He said its engineers 
had caused damage that had caused the leak and the subsequent damage to his kitchen.
RSA did not uphold his complaint. It didnt believe the work completed by its contractors was 
the cause of the leak, so it wasnt liable for the damage in his kitchen.
As Mr A was not happy with RSA, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said there was 
not enough evidence to safely say that it was likely the RSA drainage engineer had caused 
the damage. So he couldnt fairly hold RSA responsible for the leak and the subsequent 
damage.
As Mr A is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has confirmed he made a claim to his home insurance policy and the work to repair the 
damage in his kitchen was accepted and completed. This complaint is regarding liability of 
fault of the cause of the leak, that subsequently caused the damage in his kitchen. Mr A 
complains that RSA should accept fault under his home emergency policy and settle his 
claim.
I reviewed the reports from the RSA appointed professionals that attended Mr As property 
and the points made by Mr A.
I have looked into the sequence of events in this case
On 13 October 2020 Mr A reported the blocked toilets to RSA. An RSA appointed drainage 
engineer attended but was unable to clear the blockage with a plunger or high-pressure 
water jet.
 
The next day Mr A reported a leak coming through the ceiling in his kitchen to RSA. It sent a 
plumbing and heating engineer to look at the leak. The plumbing and heating engineer said 
the leak was not coming from the toilet. The engineer identified it was likely coming from a 
water supply pipe and not the toilet. It would require further tracing. The engineer advised Mr 
A to refer the matter to his home building and contents insurer as his emergency policy did 
not provide cover for tracing leaks. 
During this visit the plumbing and heating engineer found the toilets were still full of waste. 
They were not removed to avoid spillage.
A plumbing and heating engineer and a drainage engineer attended Mr As house at the 
same time. The waste was removed from the toilets and the toilets removed. The drainage 
engineer was still not able to clear the blockage. Another machine was required, and it was 
booked for 20 October 2020.
After this visit Mr A reported to RSA that he was left with no hot water. 
RSAs plumbing and heating engineer went back to investigate the issue. An airlock was 
found in the hot water system and was removed. Hot water was reinstated. 
On 20 October 2020 the drainage engineer attended with machinery to clear the blockage 
but there was no blockage located.
The plumbing and heating engineer attended to refit the toilets and the en-suite toilet was 
reinstated. The bathroom toilet was not able to be reinstated as it was cracked, and further 
damage would be caused if it was refit. RSA said Mr A said he was due to replace this toilet.
I reviewed the photographic evidence submitted by both RSA and Mr A which include
A plunger in both the en-suite and bathroom toilets
Cracks in the bathroom toilet 
Pictures of the damaged kitchen ceiling
Mr A said the leak was caused by the drainage engineer damaging the toilet pan connector 
in the toilet when it attended the first appointment to remove the blockage. Mr A also said the leak from the toilet pan was a slow leak, causing the ceiling to fill up with fluid until it 
collapsed.
RSA say the leak was not caused by its drainage engineers. It said it was unlikely the leak 
was from the toilet pan connector in the bathroom as the water levels in the toilet had not 
dropped from its first attendance on 13 October 2020 to removal on 16 October 2020. It 
added that if the leak was from the pan connector there was not enough water to go through 
a tiled floor and the ceiling below and for it then to collapse.
RSA said the leak could have been from the hot water pipes. It had found an airlock in these 
pipes and removed it. And the leaking stopped when the airlock was removed. 
RSA engineers said there were other contractors working at the property when they 
attended. These were not organised by RSA. Mr A said there were no other contractors.
Based on the information and evidence available on file, theres not enough evidence for me 
to say with certainty exactly where the leak came from. 
If it was confirmed the leak came from the bathroom toilet, there is no conclusive evidence 
that the RSA drainage engineer caused damage to the toilet pan connector. Mr A confirmed 
there was a slow leak from the toilet pan causing the ceiling to fill up. As there was already 
damage caused by a slow leak before RSA engineers attended, I cannot hold RSA 
responsible for the damage caused to his kitchen.   
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman