DRN-3718876
The complaint
Mrs F says that she suffered financial losses due to The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) 
applying interest and charges to lending she couldnt afford. She is also unhappy at the time 
it took RBS to respond to her request for bank statements dating back to 2001. 
What happened
Mrs F complained to RBS that its lending over the years 2001- 2011 was irresponsible and 
as a result she suffered financial hardship. Mrs F also complained about the level of service 
she received regarding a request for obtaining information about her accounts. 
RBS said all applications for lending were fully credit scored and the information Mrs F 
declared at the time of the applications matched or exceeded what was being received into 
her account and that it had no concerns about the affordability of her overdraft. It said all 
charges applied to her account were applied fairly and consistently in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
However, RBS agreed the level of customer service Mrs F received when requesting 
historical information regarding her accounts wasnt good enough and compensated her 
£100.
Mrs F was dis-satisfied with this and so brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Fs concerns and didnt think RBS had lent 
irresponsibly on the information they had. Furthermore, they thought that given information 
Mrs F was requesting was over six years old it was difficult for the bank to get this 
information quickly and thought the £100 compensation was a fair way to settle her 
complaint. 
Mrs F disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly let me clear that due to the passage of time it hasnt been possible for RBS to provide 
me with Mrs Fs loan or overdraft applications and as such my decision relates solely to the 
overdraft lending based on Mrs Fs historical bank statements and internal records which I 
have been able to review.  Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
RBS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
RBS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs F 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether RBS did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mrs Fs overdraft. Mrs F was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks RBS carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mrs F would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
I can see from RBSs records that in 2004 Mrs F had an overdraft limit of £1,500 raising up 
to £1,921 at the end of that year and then reducing to £400 in June 2006 where it remained. 
It is worth noting that RBS declined Mrs F for an increase in her overdraft limit to £600 prior 
to this.
RBS says all the overdraft applications were fully credit scored taking into account 
information Mrs F provided about her income and outgoings as well as information held by 
other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information RBS 
was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility and limits 
she requested.
I accept that Mrs Fs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to RBS at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told RBS this. But RBS was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit checks it carried out. Given the amount of credit being advanced was on a reducing 
basis and the final limit agreed (£400) was relatively low and her credits matched or 
exceeded the income declared, I think RBSs checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. And going by Mrs Fs statements I dont think it did. Mrs Fs statements show 
that while Mrs F did use her overdraft facility it was used more regularly when it was at its 
lower limit of £400. Indeed, she spent the majority of time in credit up until 2006. And 
following this there were regular credits being paid in which at times reduced her overdraft 
significantly. 
So, I dont think there was anything in the statements themselves that would indicate that 
Mrs F was in financial difficulty prior to her informing RBS of this. And so in these 
circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with adding the 
interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mrs Fs account was being used and I 
dont think it acted irresponsibly in continuing to allow her an overdraft at the reduced limit of 
£400 based on the information I have seen. 
Mrs F also complains about the amount of time it took RBS to provide her with bank 
statements dating back to 2001. It might help by me explaining here that where a business 
accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the 
consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may 
award modest compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs F had to wait two years to receive the information she requested and that has no doubt 
inconvenienced her. But the information she requested dated back almost 20 years and 
despite RBS not being required to hold on to this information for more than six years it did eventually provide Mrs F with the information she requested and compensated her £100 for 
the service received. 
So, bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what RBS has already done for Mrs F is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already done is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and I do not uphold 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman