DRN-3359518
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(BMW). 
 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. There was 
an engine management light on the dashboard when Mr B went to collect the car, and the 
dealership carried out repairs to the ad blue pump before Mr B could take possession of the 
vehicle. 
Mr B says the issue wasnt fixed properly, so he took the vehicle to a manufacturer garage 
for investigation. The garage said that as the ad blue pump had already been replaced, there 
was likely to be an ECU fault. Mr B paid £813.60 in June 2021 for repairs to be completed. 
In July 2021 the manufacturer garage said there was pressure in the ad blue system after 
the ECU replacement, but it wasnt building up pressure in time. They said the parts should 
be replaced as a full module and gave Mr B a quote for this. 
Mr B complained to BMW about the quality of the car in July 2021. BMW sent Mr B their final 
response to his complaint in October 2021. They said they didnt think the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr B, and so he was able to reject it. They 
said Mr B had a payment deferral in place on the agreement until June 2021, but they hadnt 
received payments for July, August or September. So, as Mr B had use of the vehicle, he 
would be required to make three monthly payments before the rejection took place. They 
also said that they wouldnt remove the late payment markers from Mr Bs credit file as it was 
an accurate representation of Mr Bs account. 
Unhappy with BMWs response, Mr B brought his complaint to us for investigation. He said 
he stopped making payments because the car wasnt driveable. He didnt agree to the 
rejection of the vehicle because BMW wouldnt provide a new finance agreement for a new 
vehicle. 
Mr B took the vehicle to the manufacturer garage in January 2022 because the ad blue 
countdown kept coming on. He paid £988.20 to strip, clean and replace the ad blue tank, but 
this didnt resolve the problem. 
Our investigator gave their view that along with rejection of the vehicle, BMW should refund 
Mr Bs deposit, the £813.60 that Mr B paid to attempt to repair the vehicle and pay Mr B 
£150 compensation. She didnt think BMW were responsible for the cost of repairs after they 
had made the offer to reject the vehicle. She said Mr B should pay his monthly payments for 
the time hed had use of the vehicle, and any excess mileage that hed travelled as Mr B had 
exceeded the annual mileage allowance on the agreement. Our investigator said BMW 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file once the payments had been 
made. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he shouldnt have to make monthly payments for the car when it 
was faulty. 
BMW didnt confirm if they accepted our investigators view. But they said the dealership 
replaced the part initially under warranty, and so it wouldve been covered under the parts 
guarantee if it failed. They said Mr B didnt pay the full deposit to the dealer, only £1,000 of 
the £4,000, and they said Mr B had travelled over 18,000 miles over the agreed mileage 
allowance, so they didnt think Mr B had been unable to drive the car. 
Mr B confirmed he paid £1,000 of the deposit, and our investigator said BMW would only 
need to return to him that portion of the deposit hed paid. 
In March 2022 Mr B said hed accept the investigators recommendation. He said hed make 
the three missed payments and reject the vehicle. BMW disagreed, they said Mr B had 
never made a monthly payment, and as so much time had passed, they wouldnt now accept 
only three payments. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. BMW as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
BMW have accepted that Mr Bs vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied, so Ive focussed on what BMW should do to put things right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. There has been an opportunity to repair Mr Bs vehicle, undertaken by the 
dealership. This has failed, and Mr B has made further attempts to repair the vehicle, but it 
hasnt been returned to a satisfactory condition. So, Im satisfied that Mr B should be allowed 
his final right to reject the vehicle, and BMW agreed to this in October 2021. 
This means that the car is collected from Mr B, the finance agreement is brought to an end, 
and Mr B has his deposit refunded (plus interest). The agreement shows a deposit of 
£4,000, but Mr B has confirmed he only paid £1,000 of this. BMW arent responsible for 
refunding a sum that Mr B hasnt actually paid, so BMW should refund the £1,000 plus 8% 
simple yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Mr B said he didnt want to accept the rejection because BMW wouldnt give him a new 
finance agreement. BMW dont have to provide a new agreement as part of the rejection 
process, and it would be for them to decide if they wanted to enter into a new agreement 
with Mr B, in the same way as any proposed finance agreement. 
Following the repair by the dealership at the start of the agreement, Mr B continued to 
experience a fault with the ad blue system. Ive seen evidence that the vehicle entered limp mode around every 500 miles, and Mr B said he kept having to take it to be reset so that he 
could drive it. He took the vehicle to the manufacturer garage and paid £813.60 to have the 
ECU repaired. I think this was reasonable action for Mr B to take. He was being 
inconvenienced in having the car reset every 500 miles, so I find it was reasonable to try and 
prevent this occurring. BMW should refund Mr B for these repairs, plus 8% simple yearly 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Our investigator recommended that BMW pay Mr B £150 compensation. Mr B has been put 
to inconvenience in trying to have repairs completed on multiple occasions and taking his car 
to be reset regularly. Overall, Im satisfied that BMW should pay Mr B £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
BMW said in October 2021 that Mr B would need to make his monthly payments for July, 
August, and September 2021 as hed had use of the vehicle. Mr B said he shouldnt have to 
make any monthly payments because the car was faulty. Our investigator said Mr B should 
pay for the use hed had of the vehicle and should pay his monthly payments for the months 
hes had use of the car. 
Mr B has continued to use the vehicle with the fault present and past the date of BMWs final 
response. Ive seen evidence that the car had covered around 63,500 miles in February 
2022, so Mr B had travelled around 18,500 miles in the 14 months hed had the car and has 
continued to use the vehicle past this date. If Mr B didnt have use of this vehicle, hed have 
needed to pay for another means of keeping mobile, so I think Mr B should pay for the use 
hes had of this vehicle, and his monthly payments reflect a fair cost for this use. So, Mr B 
should pay his monthly payments for the months hes had use of the car.  
I appreciate that Mr B drove the vehicle with a fault present, and that he had to have the car 
reset on a number of occasions. Ive considered whether Mr B should be entitled to a 
reduction from his monthly payments for impaired use. The agreement between Mr B and 
BMW has an agreed mileage of 6,000 miles a year. Mr B has exceeded this mileage 
considerably, so I dont think the fault impaired the use that Mr B intended to have of the 
vehicle when he entered the agreement. So, I dont think BMW need to reduce the monthly 
payment amount. 
Our investigator said that Mr B should be responsible for any excess mileage charge. BMW 
agreed to enter the agreement for the monthly payment based on Mr B travelling no more 
than 6,000 miles annually in the vehicle. Mr B has significantly exceeded this, and so I find 
that BMW are able to charge for the excess mileage Mr B has covered when the car is 
collected. 
Mr B had an obligation to make his payments on time under the agreement. As he didnt 
make the payments,  BMW recorded missed payments on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B didnt 
make his payments because of the problems with the car, and I havent seen any evidence 
that suggests that Mr B wouldnt have made his payments otherwise. So, once Mr B has 
made the outstanding payments, BMW should remove the agreement and any adverse 
information from Mr Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services must: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr B. 
Refund Mr Bs deposit of £1,000 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. Refund Mr B £813.60 for the repair costs, plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the agreement and any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file once the 
outstanding payments have been settled. 

BMW are able to charge Mr B for his use of the car, which includes his monthly payments 
from the end of the payment deferral date until the vehicle is collected, and any excess 
mileage charge. They can deduct any refund due from the outstanding amount. 
If BMW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman