DRN-2774907
The complaint
Miss E complains that she didnt receive a default notice from TSB Bank plc.
What happened
Miss E had a current account and overdraft with TSB. In July 2017 the balance went above 
the overdraft limit and the last transaction Miss E made was at the beginning of August 
2017. The final credit received into the account before it was closed was in the middle of July 
2017. Charges continued to be applied and TSB says it sent Miss E letters about the 
outstanding balance, including its intention to default the account, throughout October and 
November 2017. TSB says it took the decision to close the account in December 2017 and 
report a default to the credit reference agencies because the balance remained outstanding 
and no contact from Miss E was received. 
At the beginning of 2020 the debt was told a third party. 
Miss E complained to TSB and has said she didnt receive its letters so wasnt aware her 
account was due to close and default. TSB didnt agree any errors had been made and 
didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. The case was referred to this service and passed to an 
investigator. They thought TSB had dealt with Miss Es case fairly so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Miss E asked to appeal and said TSB should be able to retrieve copies of the 
letters it claims to have sent and that when she became aware of the debt she repaid it. As 
Miss E asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has told us she wasnt aware of TSBs intention to close and default her account 
because its default notice wasnt received. But TSB says it wrote to Miss E on a number of 
occasions about the position of her account and what would happen if no payments or 
contact were received. TSB says it didnt retain original copies of its letters but has sent us 
templates along with systems information it says shows they were sent as claimed. 
I understand Miss E feels TSB should be able to provide copies of the specific letters it sent 
her. But as TSB hasnt got those, Ive looked at the other information available. Where the 
circumstances of a complaint are disputed or unclear, Ill make my decision on the balance 
of probability. That is what I consider most likely to have happened based on all the available 
information and evidence. 
In this case, Im satisfied TSB most likely wrote to Miss E about her account and its intention 
to close and default it. I say this because the account balance was in excess of its agreed 
overdraft limit for an extended period. TSBs standard approach in that situation is to contact 
the customer and ultimately close and default the account if no agreement can be reached. 
TSB has sent us systems information that shows it wrote to Miss E during the period in 
question and sent her important letters like the default notice. Ive looked at the address 
information and can see it is correct and in line with the details we hold. Ive also reviewed 
the templates for the letters TSB sent and can see they wouldve explained what was 
happening and why. Taking all the available information together, I think its more likely than 
not that TSB did write to Miss E before it closed and defaulted her account. So Im unable to 
agree it failed to follow the right process before it closed Miss Es account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss E but I havent found that TSB made an error or treated her 
unfairly when it took the decision to close her current account and report a default to the 
credit reference agencies. As Im satisfied TSB has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman