DRN-3662718
The complaint
In brief summary, Ms H complained about what happened when she opened a new account 
with AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ). She said AJ was responsible for misleading 
advertising which suggested certain funds could be purchased via its platform although that 
proved not to be the case when Ms H attempted to place an order. She then had various 
problems when she decided to apply for a different investment instead.
What happened
Ms H said she was prompted in January 2021 to open an account with AJ as it offered the 
opportunity to invest in a fund in which she was particularly interested, not offered via other 
trading platforms. 
Ms H opened a new account (the Dealing Account) taking £1,300 funds out of investment 
elsewhere in order to do so.
Ms H thought she would be able to benefit from buying into the fund she hoped to invest in 
but was greatly disappointed to find it was no longer being sold by AJ.
However, having already moved her money to AJ, Ms H decided instead to open a savings 
account offered on AJs platform. An email exchange followed between Ms H and AJ about 
the process for funding the savings account which required her to send money from her AJ 
Dealing Account to a specified bank account in order that it could be paid into the savings 
account. Ms H said this wasnt advertised when she opened the account. After a couple of 
unsuccessful attempts to transfer the £1,300 that Ms H wanted to invest, this money ended 
up being automatically returned to her.
Ms H was then asked to make a £1 deposit, which she understood was for the purpose of 
confirming identity, and after doing so, she was subsequently able to successfully pay the 
£1,300 into the savings account. 
This left the £1 deposit payment with AJ in an account Ms H said she didnt any longer want 
to use so she attempted to arrange for it to be transferred back into her nominated bank 
account. 
Ms H was concerned to note that a week or so later the £1 still didnt appear to have been 
credited back to her bank account. She sent further emails about this and spoke to AJs 
customer services department on the phone. 
Ms H was told that the £1 transfer had been blocked for security purposes. She felt this was 
perplexing and concerning, given that the £1,300 was transferred from the account. 
Ms H was particularly worried that the missing £1 suggested the possibility that she had a 
wrong account linked to her AJ account and so her identity and money could be abused. 
She said her entire experience with AJ had been stressful and uneasy so she escalated a 
complaint.
AJ sent a final response letter dated 26 May 2021. AJ said its Withdrawals Team received 
her withdrawal request of £1 on 28 January 2021 and as there had been no dealing on her 
account, the payment required additional verification checks before AJ could complete the 
request. 
AJ said it appreciated her frustration that it had to verify this small payment amount but as a 
regulated entity it was required to do this  and it took security of its customers accounts 
seriously. 
AJ confirmed it aimed to process withdrawal requests as soon as possible, and this sort of 
request was ordinarily processed within five working days  as happened here. It said the 
payment was made by CHAPS on 4 February 2021, which it believed was reasonable.
Ms H wasn't happy with this response. She felt it focused solely on the delayed £1 payment 
and she said AJ had missed the deadline set by the ombudsman for dealing with a complaint 
by about a month. 
So she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and sent his view letter on 30 December 
2021. He understood Ms Hs concerns were:
about AJs process around authorising her new account, and 
not being able to purchase the specific investment that AJ had advertised once she 
had opened her account for this purpose, and
AJs lack of communication and email responses 
Our investigator thought, in brief summary, that AJ had acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Ms H  its emails had accurately explained what Ms H needed to do and whilst 
he recognised it had been a frustrating and anxious time for Ms H, he was satisfied that AJ 
had correctly followed its internal processes within a reasonable timescale.
In response to her complaint about being misled by AJs advertisement, our investigator 
explained that AJ hadnt addressed this in its final response as Ms H hadnt raised this with 
AJ. 
It had however pointed to the relevant part of its terms and conditions which stated that it 
could alter the range of investments offered on its platform at its discretion and without 
notice.
So our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
In response to the investigators view, Ms H said she didnt accept it answered her main 
concerns about AJs operational deficiencies and unclear process of account funding, as 
well as deceptive advertisements that certain funds could be purchased via their platform. 
And she didnt think the investigator had accurately understood that her complaint about 
what had happened with the £1 payment concerned AJs failure to send it back to her 
account and its failure to respond to her. 
There was a further exchange of emails. Ms H still didnt feel the investigator had addressed 
her concern that AJ had advertised on its website investments it was unable to offer  which 
she said was misleading and unethical. And she sent screenshots which she said showed 
the fund was still being advertised.
Our investigator went back to AJ for some further information. This prompted AJ to send a final response letter to Ms H on 10 February 2022 setting out its 
formal response to complaints that she had been unable to invest as she hoped and that AJ 
had failed to make clear to her that she would be unable to do so.  
AJ confirmed what it told our investigator. In summary, AJ said the same day that Ms H 
opened her Dealing Account on 6 January 2021 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
imposed a ban on the sale to retail clients of cryptocurrencies and broader investments that 
track performance of such investments. Prior to this announcement, investors had been 
permitted to purchase these investments. AJ said that as it wasnt responsible for the FCA's 
decision it didnt accept it was responsible for the issues that Ms H had experienced.
AJ pointed out that information Ms H had seen on its website (which she had relied on in 
making her plans to switch some of her investment funds to AJ) was provided for research 
purposes, as whilst there is a ban on the purchase of these investments, existing holders 
were permitted to retain such investments.
Our investigator sent a second view letter on 29 April 2022 explaining why he still didnt think 
this was a complaint we should uphold. Whilst he was sympathetic to Ms Hs position and 
could appreciate why the information she had seen led her to feel that shed been misled, he 
didnt consider that AJ acted unreasonably by allowing these pages to show on its website. 
He said that if Ms H had spoken to AJ before opening the account, he was satisfied that she 
wouldve been made aware of the ban on the fund. 
Also, the ban was announced by the FCA in October 2020  three months prior to coming 
into action. So he felt this information wouldve been available to Ms H to enable her to make 
an informed decision about where to invest before she opened her AJ account. As our 
investigator couldnt say that AJ misled Ms H, he said he wouldnt be asking it to do anything 
differently.
Ms H was dissatisfied with this response. Its my understanding that she mainly felt the 
response didnt properly address the issue of wrongful and misleading advertising, that 
quoting from terms and conditions didnt answer her particular concerns, and she was 
unclear on the chronology of communications she had received from us. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Im sorry Ms H feels our investigator didnt investigate the complaint thoroughly or address 
all her complaints in the way she expected. I am aware that this has been the subject of 
separate correspondence. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant to the outcome. 
As there have been a number of complaint issues, I think it might be helpful if I consider 
these, broadly speaking, in chronological order. I have first considered Ms Hs complaint concerning the information she saw on AJs website 
that prompted her to transfer £1,300 to AJ in order to invest in the specific investment she 
hoped to buy into. 
I understand her complaint is that the information on its website was misleading  and that 
she was misled by it.
Id like to assure Ms H that I have independently reviewed all the available information 
before reaching my conclusions. And having done so, I agree with our investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons, that this isnt a complaint we can uphold. 
I accept that the sole reason Ms H opened a Dealing Account with AJ was to enable her to 
invest in the particular product that was of interest to her. It seems she had relied on 
screenshots showing the performance overview for the particular fund alongside a 
screenshot showing the option to buy or sell the fund. So I can completely understand why it 
was frustrating to discover that this investment opportunity wasnt open to her. 
But I cant fairly hold AJ responsible for the fact that regulatory changes by the FCA, which 
took effect the same day that Ms H applied to AJ to invest, meant that AJ could no longer 
offer this product to new investors. 
Its terms and conditions make clear that customers can only place orders for permitted 
investments  and that AJ can alter the range of permitted investments at any time without 
notice. So I cant say that AJ did anything wrong when it didnt allow Ms H to invest in her 
product of choice as it was no longer a permitted investment given the FCA ban and AJ no 
longer offered it.  
Although AJ said the FCA had previously given notice of its intention to ban dealings of this 
sort some three months earlier, I dont think there was any particular requirement on AJ to 
include this information on its website. Nothing I've seen suggests to me that AJ was actively 
seeking to solicit new business of this type. It explained that the pages which Ms H seems to 
have been influenced by were licensed to AJ by a third party and the market information they 
showed was intended to enable customers to research the investment. 
That seems a fair response to me. 
AJ didnt advise or recommend this investment to Ms H. She acted on her own volition when 
she chose to open a Dealing Account with AJ. Im mindful that Ms H felt that AJs processes 
constituted wrongful advertisement. But, based on all the information I've seen and been 
told, I havent seen enough to persuade me that AJ misled Ms H in any respect when she 
decided to open a Dealing Account with it.  
Ms H mentioned in one of her responses to our investigators view that these pages were 
still on AJs website after the ban took effect. But thats not a reason for me to uphold her 
complaint.
I think its fair for AJ to say that these pages show information of interest to customers who 
had already invested in the product ahead of the ban. So I cant fairly or reasonably say this 
affects the outcome of Ms Hs complaint.
A significant part of Ms Hs complaint related to what happened when she next decided to 
buy into a different investment product AJ offered  the savings account. Ms H told us that 
she transferred money to AJ needlessly and invested in a low paying cash account that did 
not meet her needs as she already had a reasonable amount of cash investments. She said 
the cash account that she placed the money in is providing a substantially lower return than the investment that she wanted to use the account for. To put things right Ms H said she 
wanted an apology and compensation for the lower return she is getting on her cash 
compared to the fund she wanted to invest in.
Ive considered what she told us about this and how upsetting she found what happened. 
I am sorry that Ms H didnt feel that our investigator properly got to grips with this part of her 
complaint. To be clear, its my understanding that Ms H feels AJ is responsible for delays 
that occurred, first when she was trying to move money into her savings account and then 
when she was attempting to recover the £1 deposit payment.  
Ive reviewed everything. I can see why AJs requirements might have seemed confusing 
and I appreciate why Ms H felt concerned about the security of her ID and her money. But 
I understand why AJ needed to ask Ms H to go through the steps she had to take in order to 
get her new savings account set up. Its emails explained what she needed to do. And its 
literature explained that moving money out of the Dealing Account was potentially subject to 
delay as customers would be asked to pass authentication checks each time when 
withdrawing cash. Those checks were required to meet compliance requirements and 
designed to protect customers money.  
Its unfortunate that things seemed to get muddled when she tried to recover the £1 
payment. But whilst things didnt happen as quickly as Ms H would have liked, the savings 
account was set up in line with her instructions, the £1 was returned to her bank account, her 
account security was not put at risk and everything was sorted out within what I consider 
was a reasonable time frame. 
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that AJ delayed unreasonably in 
dealing with Ms Hs emails or queries. I've also carefully listened to the call recording when 
Ms H discussed her concerns with AJs customer services agent. 
Ultimately, in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that AJ did something 
wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H  and I havent seen or heard enough 
to make me think that happened. 
I havent overlooked the fact that Ms H also complained that AJ missed the deadline for 
responding to her complaint by about a month. In its final response letter sent on 26 May 
2021 it explained that a high volume of correspondence received had, on occasion, led to 
increased response times. AJ apologised for not responding to Ms Hs initial email sent on 
1 February 2021  it said it did however meet its usual timescale for responding to an email 
she sent on 3 February 2021. 
I can understand why AJs priority at the time was putting into effect what Ms H wanted to 
achieve  getting her new savings account set up and sorting out the return of her £1 deposit 
 which AJ did. And although its final response letter was sent late, I cant see that this has 
resulted in any financial loss or otherwise disadvantaged Ms H. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider AJs failure to send a more timely final response letter on that occasion warrants 
any further redress. 
I also dont think it was initially made clear to AJ that Ms H had wanted AJ to respond to her 
complaint about being misled into opening the Dealing Account  when it became clear this 
was an ongoing complaint issue AJ sent a further final response letter covering this. 
So this is why Im not upholding any part of Ms Hs complaint. This means I cant fairly and 
reasonably award Ms H any redress as she has asked.   If I havent commented on everything Ms H has said during the course of this complaint, 
thats because I dont feel theres anything more I can usefully add to what has already been 
said by the investigator or commented on elsewhere. But I hope that setting things out as 
I have done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions and that Ms H will at least feel 
that her complaints have been given serious consideration even if this isnt the decision she 
was hoping for.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms H is unhappy with what I've said in my provisional decision. She is concerned that I may 
not have correctly understood the sequence of events and the issues she is complaining 
about. She said AJ took the £1 just fine and set up the account correctly - there was no issue 
with this. The problem happened when she tried to withdraw the £1. She is concerned that 
AJ was able to accept the money without any difficulty but had issues refunding it.
AJ told me it had responded to all complaints received from Ms H, it agreed with my 
provisional decision and has nothing to add.
As I have now heard from both parties in response to my provisional decision, I think its 
reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms H feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. Ms H hasnt provided 
me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already 
considered the main points she has mentioned above when thinking about my provisional 
decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome.
I can understand that Ms H is disappointed in the outcome of her complaint. But, as no 
further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that change 
what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman