DRN-2074956
The complaint
Mr H has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI)s 
decision to cancel his policy for not paying the premium on time.
What happened
Mr H bought a policy with UKI under a credit agreement  so he paid a deposit and agreed 
to repay the balance in monthly instalments. 
In September 2019 Mr H contacted UKI as his circumstances had changed and he asked to 
postpone payments. UKI agreed for Mr H to pay the next premium on 21 October 2019 and 
pushed back his premiums by one month. The agent said that if Mr Hs circumstances hadnt 
changed by October, to call UKI and it would see what it could do.
On 17 October 2019 - three working days before the October payment was due, Mr H called 
UKI to ask if he could postpone payments by a further month. He said this is what the agent 
told him he could do in September when he called.
As the payment was already in the clearance period with the bank, UKI advised Mr H that it 
couldnt do anything until the payment either cleared or was rejected. So the agent 
suggested Mr H call back the following week to discuss his options. 
Mr Hs Direct Debit instruction was cancelled and so UKI was unable to collect payments 
and wrote to Mr H. On 20 November 2019 Mr H called UKI to set up a new Direct Debit 
Instruction (DDI). It was agreed that UKI would change the collection date from 21st to 29th of 
each month and would attempt to collect the November payment on 29 November, the 
outstanding October payment on 13 December, and the December payment on 29 
December. 
On 12 December 2019 Mr H called UKI. He said the agent in September agreed he could 
waive two months payments which could be added on at the end of the policy.
At this stage the payment due on 29 November had been rejected by the bank. So Mr H 
owed the premium for October and November. 
The agent said UKI intended to apply again for the 29 November payment the next day. And 
it would apply for the December payment on 29 December. It was agreed that Mr H would 
need to contact UKI by 10 January 2020 to pay the outstanding October payment by card. 
Mr H asked if UKI would remind him, but UKI said Mr H would need to ensure he contacted 
it. 
UKI received Novembers payment after it reapplied for it. However, Decembers payment 
failed. And Mr H didnt contact it on 10 January 2020. So Mr H owed two months payments. 
UKI wrote to Mr H each time his payment wasnt successful. On 13 January 2020 UKI wrote 
to Mr H to give him notice of cancellation. As Mr H didnt contact UKI, it cancelled his policy 
on 27 January 2020. 
On 30 January 2020 Mr H called UKI. He said he discovered through a database that he 
was no longer insured. He said he didnt receive UKIs letters notifying him of the 
cancellation. Mr H complained to UKI. He said it should have done more to alert him before 
cancellation by contacting him by phone, email or registered post. Mr H wanted UKI to 
reinstate his policy.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it had correctly followed its cancellation process. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He said UKI gave him conflicting information in the 
calls he had with it.
Our investigator listened to the calls and didnt find that UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary he says:
He wasnt told in September that if he needed help in October he would need to call 3-5 
days before the payment was due. 
He doesnt understand how the agent could change the date for the November payment on 
20th November  the day before  but this couldnt be done three working days before in 
October. 
The payment date was changed from 21st to 29 November but UKI didnt attempt to collect 
the payment on 29 November and instead applied for it on 4 December which he didnt 
agree to. 
He doesnt feel its his fault that the payments werent made successfully for October and 
November and so isnt a fair reason to use for cancelling his policy. 
Due to his working hours changing as a result of an injury  and the loss of a relative  he 
cant remember why he didnt call UKI on 10 January and he physically couldnt do his 
second job. He feels UKI should have helped him more and allowed him to reinstate his 
policy. 
He wants UKI to remove the cancellation record as it has had an impact on the premium he 
pays for future insurance. Mr H feels he isnt the only one who got things wrong as UKI 
made mistakes too.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all of the call recordings provided by UKI and Mr H. I didnt find that UKI 
agreed that Mr H could postpone paying two months premiums in the call he had in 
September 2019. The agent agreed to push back the premiums by one month from 
September to October. He said if Mr H was still in the same position in October, to contact it 
and it would see what it could do. 
In each call I think UKI tried to help Mr H to keep his policy in force as it agreed to change 
the premium collection dates. Ultimately the onus is on Mr H to ensure his premiums are 
paid when due to prevent his policy from being cancelled. The reason why UKI wasnt able to do anything about the October premium when Mr H 
called on 17 October 2019 was because it was already in the clearance period. But that isnt 
the reason why his policy was cancelled. And UKI agreed with Mr H that he could pay the 
October premium by 10 January 2020 by card to bring his policy back up to date, which I 
think was reasonable. 
The November premium wasnt in the clearance period when Mr H called on 20 November 
because the DDI had been cancelled. The purpose of Mr Hs call was to reinstate the DDI. 
Mr H says he didnt receive UKIs letters: to give notice of cancellation or confirmation of 
cancellation. But Im satisfied that UKI correctly followed its cancellation process by giving 
notice by letter. UKIs policy says it can give notice of seven days to cancel the policy by 
letter to the last address it holds for the customer. As this is what UKI did, I cant say it did 
anything wrong because it didnt also contact Mr H by email or phone, or sent the letters by 
recorded delivery. 
I understand Mr H will be very disappointed. And I appreciate that his circumstances had 
changed. But overall I think UKI was flexible in order to help Mr H meet the payments due 
under the policy. So Im satisfied it has treated Mr H fairly and as it would any other 
customer in the same circumstances. And so this means I think the cancellation stands. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman