DRN-4048849
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
treated them unfairly by restricting access to their account and then applying a default notice 
to their credit file. 
What happened
B held a business current account and business loan with NatWest.
B told us: 
NatWest had negatively affected their credit rating by chasing the partnership for loan 
repayments which werent due and unfairly applying a default in May 2022. 
The bank had restricted their account without reason in October 2021 and returned 
the payments which had been credited to it. 
They couldnt make payments to the loan (or receive refunds on overpayments if 
due) as their business account had been closed.
Theyd been caused distress and inconvenience as a result of the banks actions. 
NatWest told us:
It needed to undertake a customer due diligence review to ensure the information it 
held for B was accurate, however it had written to B on several occasions between 
August and October 2021 - but hadnt received a response. 
It wrote to B in December 2021 giving sixty days notice that their account would be 
closed if it didnt receive a response. As B didnt reply, the account was closed which 
meant any credits received were returned and regular payments werent paid as the 
account wasnt active.  
B hadnt made loan repayments as expected and in May 2022, they were around 
£34,000 in arrears so it had fairly defaulted the loan and recorded this on the credit 
file. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that NatWest had 
undertaken a review of Bs account and requested further information which hadnt been 
received within the required timescales. He also said that NatWest had applied a restriction 
and then closed Bs account in line with the account terms and conditions, and that the 
partners had been given a reasonable opportunity to make the loan repayments using an 
alternative method. However as they hadnt done so, the default had been fairly recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
B says that NatWest has treated them unfairly by restricting and then closing their account 
as a result of the due diligence review. But I dont agree. NatWest has regulatory obligations 
to ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of its customers, and that it is also protecting its 
customers adequately. Ive seen that NatWest contacted B three times over a three-month 
period to obtain the information it needed - but it didnt receive a response. As the bank 
wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory obligations, it gave B warning that it would restrict 
and then close their account. Ive also seen that in December 2021, NatWest gave B sixty 
days notice that it would close the account which was in line with its terms and conditions. I 
think this was reasonable.
B told us that as a result of NatWests actions their loan monthly payment was cancelled and 
the funds returned, so they werent able to make their monthly repayments as planned. 
However, Ive seen that when the bank wrote to B in August, September, and October it said 
that if it didnt receive the requested information before the deadline given, it would restrict 
access to the account which meant, amongst other things, that any standing orders wouldnt 
be processed. NatWest also explained in the December letter, that when the account was 
closed this would mean any direct debits or standing orders would be cancelled and B would 
need to make alternative arrangements. So I think B ought reasonably to have been aware 
that from October 2021, their loan repayment wasnt being paid from their NatWest account 
as they hadnt provided the requested information to the bank.  
B also says it was unfair that NatWest had defaulted their loan as they had tried to speak to 
the bank about the outstanding balance - but hadnt received a response. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case. Ive seen case notes which show NatWest called B four times in 
December 2021 to discuss the loan, it then sent further letters in December 2021 and 
January 2022 asking B to make contact and providing a specific business management 
person for the partners to speak to. I havent seen any evidence that B attempted to contact 
the bank at this point despite the letters saying it would take further action to recover the 
outstanding debt. 
B also says that it attempted to make repayments to the loan and contacted the bank before 
the default had been applied to say they wanted to do so. However I havent seen any 
evidence that they tried a manual payment or set up payments from another account to 
ensure they were meeting their contractual loan payments after they became aware the 
NatWest account was restricted and that funds had been returned. And it wasnt until March 
2022 that the partners first contacted the bank about the repayments, by which point the 
account was already nearly six months in arrears.  
I acknowledge B says that they didnt receive the letters from NatWest. However, thats not 
something I can hold the bank responsible for. I can see the bank sent at least six letters 
(not emails as B has asked us to confirm this) asking the partners to contact it, and all were 
sent to the address it held on file  which is the same address provided on their 
correspondence to the bank. Ive also seen that NatWest repeatedly tried to call B on both 
the business and mobile numbers and left messages but didnt receive a response. 
I understand that B may also not have received these calls as their contact numbers may 
have changed, however its the responsibility of the account holder to keep their details 
updated. Furthermore, even if B wasnt aware the account was restricted due to not 
receiving the letters, they have told us they received the loan repayments back due to the 
account closure, so I think they ought reasonably to have been aware that there was an 
issue with the loan repayments and contacted the bank sooner. So based on what Ive seen 
I think NatWest did make reasonable attempts to contact B to discuss their loan before the 
default was applied. 
I recognise that Bs partners feel strongly about this and will be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in 
closing Bs account or the actions it took in both making and as a result of that decision. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman