The complaint
Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly said he was underinsured 
and would only make a proportionate settlement when he made a claim.
What happened
Mr A insures a property he owns with UKI. When the property was damaged by a fire in 
2018 he made a claim. After investigating, UKI said that when he took out the policy in 2014 
Mr A had given a cost to rebuild the property which was significantly less than it would 
actually cost. The premium it had charged was based on the lower value. So it said it would 
only pay a proportionate amount in settlement of the claim. 
Mr A was unhappy about this and complained to UKI. He said he hadn't been asked what 
the property would cost to rebuild when he took out the policy. 
UKI rejected the complaint, so Mr A brought it to our service. Our investigator didn't think 
UKI had done anything wrong. She considered UKI had shown it hadn't been provided with 
an accurate rebuild cost and that it was entitled to make a proportionate settlement based on 
the policy's terms and conditions.
Mr A didn't accept our investigator's opinion. He's asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has said that Mr A's property was underinsured. In other words, the maximum amount it 
would pay under the policy to rebuild the property was less than it would actually cost. And 
so it argues that the terms and conditions of the policy allow it to pay a proportionate amount 
in settlement of this claim. 
There's no dispute that the terms and conditions of Mr A's policy refer to UKI reserving the 
right to make a proportionate settlement in the event of a property being underinsured. The 
terms and conditions state that, where the premium charged was less because of an 
inaccurate disclosure of facts when the policy was taken out, UKI may "reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim arising out of events after the alteration. We 
will pay on such claim a percentage of what we would otherwise have been liable to pay 
(whether on the original terms, or as varied), based on the total premium actually charged 
compared to the original premium charged. " What this means is that if the sums insured on 
the policy are inadequate, and the premium would have been higher if the accurate sums 
had been insured, UKI may pay a percentage of a claim
DRN-1783512The terms and conditions also state that if the property is damaged, "the maximum amount 
payable... is the sum insured stated in the schedule." It's fair to assume that this amount will 
represent the total rebuild cost of the property. This is because fully rebuilding the property is 
the most expensive form of reinstatement after an insured event.
The sum insured is "index linked as a protection against inflation and at each renewal the 
premium will be revised in accordance with the index adopted by us. Index linking will help to 
ensure that sums insured stay more in line with increasing costs and prices. However, this is 
dependent on the sums insured at inception being adequate. Please check these to
ensure they are adequate and advise us if any alteration is required."
Finally, the policy says "Your schedule provides details of the insurance protection 
provided... and the levels of cover you have. Please examine your schedule to ensure it 
meets your requirements."
I've also looked at the statement of fact which accompanied the schedule of insurance, and 
this says "tell us immediately if any details are incorrect, incomplete or have been omitted. 
Failure to do so may mean that your insurance policy is not valid or that we may not pay all 
or part of your claim."
I'm satisfied that the information in the documentation UKI sent Mr A about the policy made 
clear the maximum it would pay in the event of a claim, the importance that the cover was 
adequate and that part of a claim may not be paid in the event that any information was 
incorrect.
I'm also satisfied that UKI has fairly identified that the property is underinsured. The agent 
appointed by UKI carried out enquiries and established that the rebuild cost of Mr A's 
property was around 25% higher than the sum insured which appears on the schedule of 
insurance. I haven't been provided any evidence to show that the estimate relied on by 
UKI is inaccurate. 
There's a significant difference between the sum insured by Mr A and the actual cost of 
rebuilding the property. The premium charged by UKI was based on the sum insured. If an 
accurate rebuild cost had been provided, and a higher sum insured, then Mr A would have 
paid more for the policy.
Mr A says he wasn't asked about the rebuild cost when he initially took out the 
policy. Unfortunately, due to the length of time since he took out the policy, Mr A's phone call 
to UKI  win 2014 isn't available. The policy has been renewed annually since then, and the 
rebuild cost has increased each year on an index linked basis. This is why the initial policy is 
important. If the value was too low initially, it will have remained that way at each renewal.
While the phone call isn't available, UKI has been able to supply the sales script from the 
period when Mr A took out the policy. And this shows that its advisors were asked to request 
the rebuild cost from customers who were obtaining quotes. The script also provided details 
for how potential customers could establish this value.
So I think that it's more likely than not that UKI asked Mr A what the cost of rebuilding the 
property would be, and that the cost which appeared on the schedule was given by Mr A. I 
haven't seen anything to suggest that the advisor would not have stuck to this script about a 
point which is so fundamental to the policy and the premium charged.
The policy documents sent to Mr A highlighted the importance of checking that the 
information was correct and suitable for his needs. The documents issued in 2018 also 
include this. So I'm satisfied that the information available to Mr A in 2018 was sufficient to show that UKI had entered into the contract of insurance with Mr A on the basis that the 
rebuild cost of the property was a specified amount, which it's shown to be much lower than 
the actual cost. 
UKI is clear that it doesn't have the ability to work out rebuild costs out when it sells the 
policy. The questions which are in the script indicate to me that UKI is asking the 
policyholder to give this information. The questions advise where this information can be 
found and how the figure can be established. I don't think there's any suggestion that UKI 
can establish the rebuild cost itself when it sells the policy. It asks the policyholder to do this, 
and bases the premium charged on the information provided.
So I'm satisfied that UKI would have asked Mr A for the rebuild cost of the property when he 
took out the policy. And it sent him policy documentation which made it clear that it was 
important that the sums insured were adequate. The same documents also made it clear 
that in the event that the sums insured were inadequate, a proportionate settlement could be 
made. UKI's also shown that the sum insured was inadequate. I consider it's fair and 
reasonable for UKI to apply a proportionate settlement in this case.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman