DRN-2197849
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt send him important confidential data by 
secure e-mail as it said it would.
What happened
Mr W says HSBC sent him a large amount of confidential personal information via e-mail. He 
says HSBC told him it would be sent by secure e-mail but when he received it was not in that 
format and was not encrypted or restricted. Mr W says that was a serious breach of General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and that shortly afterwards his e-mail account was 
blocked by his e-mail provider following a hacking attempt. He says there must be a link 
between the two events and would like £5,000 compensation for what took place and the 
stress and anxiety he was caused.
HSBC says it sent the e-mail containing the information by secure e-mail. It says when the 
secure e-mail system has been previously used or downloaded then the e-mail may not 
require additional information such as a password and may appear unencrypted.
Mr W says he cant say if he has used secure e-mail in the past but says HSBC ought to 
know that and in any event, he didnt need to do anything to read the e-mails. He brought his 
complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought that Mr W 
couldnt be sure if he had set up the secure e-mail in the past and thought HSBC had 
provided evidence the e-mail was restricted. The investigator didnt think it possible to 
conclude the account hacking attempt was due to HSBC.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and in summary says HSBC ought to provide an audit trail 
which includes the registration of secure e-mail. And says the HSBC e-mail he has seen just 
says the e-mail should be encrypted not that it was. Mr W maintains HSBC has breached 
GDPR rules and should pay him compensation and apologise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, and I also appreciate how 
strongly he feels about it.
I make clear to Mr W that its up to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide if 
there has been GDPR breach. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that there has been a 
GDPR breach here.
I have looked at HSBCs records and can see the e-mails it sent to Mr W clearly say they 
are restricted or encrypted. I appreciate that Mr W says they simply say they ought to be 
rather than they are. But I think on balance it more likely the e-mails were restricted, and I 
can see that Mr W cant rule out the possibility that he may have previously downloaded the 
secure e-mail facility which may explain why he was able to open them without restriction. I 
appreciate Mr W would like HSBC to provide evidence of that previous use, but I dont think 
the secure e-mail facility is provided by HSBC but by a different business.
I dont think in any event there was any impact on Mr W regardless of how the information 
was sent. I dont think it possible to say the later problems Mr W experienced had anything 
to do with how the information was sent to him by HSBC.
Overall, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or made a mistake, but in any event, I dont 
find there was any real impact on Mr W regardless of how the information was sent. I hope 
Mr W understands that I cant fairly comment on the main part of his complaint which is if 
HSBC breached GDPR. For those reasons I cant fairly order HSBC to pay Mr W the £5,000 
compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman