DRN-3284333
The complaint
Ms N complains that Ald Automotive Limited imposed unfair charges for damage to a car at 
the end of her finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I believe there are three issues I need to address, firstly the charges for damage, secondly 
the low mileage covered and this not being taken into account and thirdly the scratch repair 
cover.
Ms N entered into an agreement under which she agreed to pay for any damage which went 
beyond fair wear and tear. Ald provides a booklet setting out what is deemed to be fair wear 
and tear. This is broadly in line with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) Fair Wear and Tear Guide. This service relies on the BVRLA guide regardless of 
whether the business makes use of it.
I have looked at the inspection report and the photographs which I am satisfied show 
damage which went beyond fair wear and tear.  Our investigator has explained this in some 
detail and I wont repeat that here, but I am satisfied that under the agreement Ald is entitled 
to impose the charges it has made. 
Ms N has suggested that since she covered fewer miles than she had agreed to this should 
be recognised by Ald and it should forgo the charge for damage. I appreciate why she has 
taken this view, but the contract does not provide for this. It is not unusual for people to 
cover fewer miles than stated in an agreement, but hire or lease contracts do not, in the 
main, allow for any form of rebate. I understand that the reduced mileage came about as a 
result of the Covid lockdown and it is open to Ald to take this into account, but that would be 
a goodwill gesture and it is not something I can require it to do.
Ms N also took out scratch repair cover which was provided by a third party. Ms N has said 
that she didnt make use of this, in part due to the dealer not making it easy and dealing with 
the scratches didnt seem to be pressing. However, she had booked the car in for the 
scratches to be dealt with on 8 April 2021, but she arranged for the car to be collected before 
the MOT expired and so the scratches were not repaired. Ms N has said she tried to speak 
to Ald about the scratches before setting up the collection date, but without success.
On the third point I cannot say that the scratch repair cover was mis-sold. The services of 
the third-party provider were available for Ms N to use and the fact she found their 
processes, inconvenient or time consuming does not mean they were not available to her. It 
is unfortunate that she didnt have the scratches repaired, but I cannot say that Ald are 
responsible for this. 
I understand that the limitations imposed by Covid made it more challenging for Ms N, but 
that does not make Ald responsible. It didnt prevent her from making use of this service. I 
cannot say that it should be responsible for covering the cost of the repairs.
I can understand Ms Ns frustration with the situation, but I cannot safely conclude that Ald 
did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman