DRN-3793314
The complaint
Mr N complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty & 
General) have unfairly declined a claim he made on a pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ns dog, which Ill refer to as E, received treatment for digestive issues. Mr N made a 
claim to Casualty & General to cover the cost of the treatment, however it declined to 
provide cover.  
Casualty & General said the policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It referred to the 
veterinary history for E which states hed previously suffered episodes of vomiting and 
diarrhoea, Because of this, Casualty & General thought E had showed signs of digestive 
issues previously and therefore the claim wasnt one it would cover.  
Casualty & General also said Mr N misrepresented Es health when he took out the policy, 
therefore it said under the relevant law it was entitled to add an exclusion to the policy 
covering digestive issues. Mr N complained but Casualty & General didnt change its 
position.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and explained she didnt think Casualty & General 
had declined the claim fairly.  She didnt think it could be said E had a pre-existing illness or 
that he had showed symptoms previously. She said the single episodes of diarrhoea and 
vomiting that had been referenced in the veterinary history occurred when E was a puppy, 
the first occasion being when he was around 6 months old.  And, no further episodes were 
noted within the history over the next seven years. She commented on the fact the treating 
vet had remarked they were isolated and unlinked to Es current illness. 
The investigator also explained that the question Casualty & General asked when the policy 
was purchased by Mr N only concerned whether he wanted cover for pre-existing conditions 
 which he didnt. So she didnt think hed made a misrepresentation when taking the policy 
out and as such, Casualty & General wasnt entitled to add a backdated exclusion to the 
policy. 
The investigator said Casualty & General should deal with Mr Ns claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And it should pay Mr N £75 compensation as it 
was clear the decline of the claim had caused him trouble and upset.
Casualty & General disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It 
maintained it was entitled to add a backdated exclusion to Mr Ns policy and that it was 
correct to decline the claim based on the veterinary history and the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant law relating to misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out remedies an 
insurer has where a qualifying misrepresentation has been made at the point of 
application. 
Mr N was not asked a question about E that led him to make a qualifying 
misrepresentation  i.e. one which have led to the insurer taking different action 
regarding the terms on which it would provide cover. 
The question Mr N was asked was a factual one about if he wanted cover for pre-
existing medical conditions  he didnt. So he answered this question correctly. This 
question did not ask Mr N to detail Es veterinary history or provide any further 
information about it. So Mr N did not make a misrepresentation about Es medical 
history and as such Casualty & General is not entitled to add a backdated exclusion 
to the policy. 
The definition of a pre-existing condition within the policy is ..any diagnosed or 
undiagnosed  Condition and/or Associated Condition which has happened or has 
shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start 
Date or within the Waiting Period.
The singular episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea Casualty & General have referred to 
happened around seven years prior to the illness the current claim relates to. These 
are so far removed from the current illness; I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to say they are linked to the current claim. And Casualty & General havent provided 
any evidence which suggests they are so. 
The treating vet, who I would usually find more persuasive as they have assessed 
matters first-hand, also says E has not showed any signs of Vomiting or Diarrhoea as 
part of the illness so far. 
Overall, Im satisfied Es veterinary history referred to by Casualty & General does 
not meet the criteria of a pre-existing condition. And so, I dont think Casualty & 
General have fairly declined the claim. I think it should now deal with the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
For completeness, the policy also contains a term which says Casualty & General 
can add an exclusion, if at the point of claim they find out about a pre-existing 
condition. For the same reasons as set out above, I dont think this term has been 
met so Casualty & General cannot apply an exclusion to the policy on this basis 
either.
 
Mr N has been caused some trouble and upset by the decline of the claim and 
therefore Casualty and General should make a payment of £75 to him to reflect the 
impact its actions have had. For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Casualty and General should do the following:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
If the claim is successful, Casualty and General should meet the cost of the claim. If 
Mr N has made any payment towards the cost of treatment, Casualty & General 
should make a payment to Mr N equivalent to this amount plus interest at 8% simple 
per annum from the date Mr N made the payment to the date the matter is settled.
Pay Mr N £75 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint against Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman