DRN-2410858
The complaint
Miss K complains that, in 2015, National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Miss K had had a bank account with NatWest since 2011. This was a free account which 
started when she was a child. In July 2015, when she was almost 19, the account was 
changed to a Select Silver Account. This cost £10 a month and came with some benefits, 
such as European travel insurance and mobile phone insurance. 
Miss K says she wasnt told she would have to pay for the account, and only realised she 
had been paying some years later. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss K didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss K originally said, when she complained to us, that she had been transferred from a 
childrens account to the Select Silver Account a month before her 18th birthday. She said 
she was unemployed then. She said that, at the time, she was made aware there were no 
fees.
However, Ive seen the application form that Miss K signed for the account, and this was 
dated about 11 months after her birthday  and it was soon after that the account fees 
started to be deducted. And there is evidence of a salary being paid in, by the time the 
account was changed. 
So that does illustrate how its often difficult to remember the details of what happened 
several years ago. Its possible that Miss K had some other discussion with the bank, just 
before her 18th birthday, and she is remembering that. Or simply that she has 
misremembered the dates. But it does show why it can be unfair to rely just on someones 
memories of what happened. 
If NatWest did mislead Miss K and make her think there were no fees, that would be 
wrong. But I would need some supporting evidence of this, especially as Miss K may not 
have remembered the details accurately. And there is in fact evidence the other way  the 
form she signed does say she would be charged £10, and also it points out that there 
were other accounts available without a fee. So it doesnt seem NatWest was trying to 
mislead her, and I think it more likely than not there was mention of the fee during 
discussions  even though Miss K clearly doesnt now remember that. 
Ive thought about other ways in which NatWest might have mis-sold the PBA. But I dont 
think they apply in this case:
I dont think NatWest recommended the PBA, in the sense of telling Miss K it had 
assessed her circumstances and thought the account was a good fit for her needs. 
It seems instead it told her about the PBA, and no doubt set out its advantages, 
but it would then have been for Miss K to decide if it was what she needed. 
Its hard to know exactly how well NatWest set out all the information that might 
have been relevant to Miss K. But, as Ive said, I think it likely it told her about the 
monthly cost, and I think its also likely it would have told her at least about the 
main features of the account and insurance. I dont think its likely that fuller 
information would have changed whether she took the account  I dont see that 
there were other aspects of the account, including the benefits, that were likely to 
have significantly put her off. 
Overall, I dont have good enough evidence to fairly say the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman