DRN-3484050
The complaint
Mr H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) decision to 
decline his claim for the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Hs car was stolen from his driveway. He reported the theft to the police and 
made a claim to LV. He says he was interviewed by a company appointed by LV about the 
circumstances of the theft. Concerns were raised that he had supplied a spare key to LV to 
examine. But Mr H says he has only ever had one key, and this is the one he provided. 
LV arranged for the key to be examined. Its specialist determined the mileage data saved to 
the key didnt match the mileage reportedly covered by the car. It also says the key didnt 
show the expected physical signs of a key that was in use and also that the battery was flat.
LV declined Mr Hs claim. It says based on its specialists findings the key sent by Mr H isnt 
the key that was last used to drive his car. It says the car has a number of security features 
that make it very difficult to steal without a key. It also says there was no evidence of broken 
glass, from thieves breaking a window to gain access. LV believes Mr H supplied a spare 
key, and that the car was likely stolen using the other key, which it thinks couldve been left 
in the car.
Mr H says that hed changed the ECU in his car, which might explain the mileage 
discrepancy with the key. LV says its key specialist and in-house engineer didnt think this 
was a likely cause of the mileage discrepancy. 
LV says it contacted the car manufacturers approved garage Mr H had been in touch with to 
ask for evidence that the key hadnt been updating with the correct mileage for some time. It 
says the garage wasnt able to provide this information. So, it based its decline decision on 
the opinion of its specialist and in-house engineer. 
Mr H didnt think this was a fair outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. He thought Mr Hs testimony was feasible. He says it was 
possible the key mileage discrepancy was caused by another issue rather than it not being 
used. And that there was a myriad of possibilities for how the car couldve been stolen. Our 
investigator didnt think LV had treated Mr H fairly when declining his claim based on the 
evidence and investigations it had carried out. 
Our investigator thought LV should reconsider Mr Hs claim. LV disagreed. It says the car 
couldnt be stolen other than by placing a key in the ignition. Cloning the key would only 
allow the thief to get inside the vehicle, it wouldnt start it. It also says relay theft wouldnt 
work as a key is still required in the ignition to start the car. And that lifting the car onto a 
transport wouldve been noisy, and Mr H had reportedly heard nothing on the night of the 
theft.
Because it didnt agree, LV asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain. 
LV declined Mr Hs claim as it wasnt satisfied that the theft of his car happened as hed 
reported. In considering his complaint I need to be satisfied that LV carried out a thorough 
investigation, that it obtained appropriate evidence and that this supports the decision it 
reached.
LV arranged for Mr H to be interviewed about the theft. The report says he appeared happy 
to assist and answered all questions put to him in a fair and reasonable manner. The main 
concern LV had was with the key Mr H provided for it to inspect. More specifically that the 
mileage data stored on the key was around 15,750 miles less than the last recorded 
odometer reading. The last reading was taken when the car was MOTd in July 2020, which 
was around ten months prior to the theft of Mr Hs car. 
I have read the report from LVs key specialist. It highlights the mileage discrepancy. It also 
says the blade of the key is largely dull, suggesting it hadnt been used in some time. The 
report indicates this could have been for over a year based on its appearance. Although it 
does say the key blade shows evidence of light abrasion. The report states that the battery 
in the key is dead. And the battery is soldered to the PCB, which meant the battery couldnt 
be changed and the remote functions couldnt be tested.
The report explains that the key blade has to be in the ignition to start the car. The head of 
the key contains a transponder that uses a shortwave transmitter that has to be in close 
proximity to the ignition for it to be read. The report states this is more secure than newer 
wireless proximity key fobs as the key has to be cut to the correct pattern for the key to turn, 
and the transponder programmed correctly for the engine to start. It says the turning of the 
key releases the steering lock and the transponder disables the immobiliser allowing the 
engine to fire. The report says unlike newer proximity keys/vehicles Mr Hs car cannot be 
stolen using the relay method and it cannot be hotwired.
In his report LVs specialist says:
Traditionally, in order for any new keys to be programmed, an existing key blade, or the key 
cut tab (issued when new) is required to physically cut the correct pattern to a blade. The 
transponder and remote then have to be programmed to the vehicle ecu, which requires 
access to the vehicle and on-board diagnostic port and takes some time. In order to access 
the on-board diagnostic port without a key, the window would likely have to be smashed, 
leaving debris at the scene of the theft and causing the alarm to sound. If the alarm didnt 
sound and there was no glass at the scene of the theft, its highly likely that a programmed 
remote was used to access the vehicle.
In his witness statement Mr H says he didnt hear anything during the night of the theft to 
alert him to any problems. He also says there was no smashed glass, no drag marks in the 
stones and he wouldve heard it had the BMW been driven away. 
Based on its experts opinion and the circumstances described by Mr H, LV concluded it was 
unlikely the car could have been taken without the individual who took it having access to a key. In its final response to his complaint it says, we feel your car was more than likely 
stolen with a key still in it. Whereas Mr H says on the night of the theft he remembers 
locking the car using the remote key. He says he heard the doors lock and saw the 
indicators flash. 
Mr H told LV that he had swapped the ECU from another car to the insured car around the 
time he bought it. He thought this might explain the discrepancy with the mileage showing on 
the key. He explains that he is a trained and chartered vehicle technician and does all his 
own work and maintenance. 
LV asked its in-house engineer if this couldve affected the reading on the key. Its engineer 
didnt think it would. 
LV contacted the manufacturers approved garage that Mr H had been in touch with respect 
to the mileage data on his car key. Its email says:
He [Mr H] says he has discussed the key and the mileage with you. He said they can see 
that the key has not been updating the mileage and evidently for some time. Would this just 
mean it has not been used? Or are you stating there was something wrong with the key? If it 
is the latter can you present any supporting evidence of this?
The garages operations director responded to say:
Hi, being honest it could be either of the reasons you have listed but could also be a 
problem with the car reading the key, I would be unable to supply any evidence to confirm 
what the problem could be.
I think this shows there was another possibility for why the key data didnt match with the 
known mileage.
   
Mr H disputes that the key battery was flat. He says the battery charges when its in the cars 
ignition. He says he tested the battery once it was returned to him and found it had a 2.28v 
charge despite it not having been used or charged in over a year since the theft. He has sent 
a video of him testing the key battery, which shows the battery has a charge. Mr H says the 
battery is welded in place, as referred to by the LVs key specialist. But he says this was 
done when the key was manufactured. 
LV says Mr H didnt provide the sellers details he bought his car from, which meant it 
couldnt make enquiries with them. In response Mr H says he contacted the seller who was 
initially cooperative with him but became less so further down the line. He says its illegal to 
hand out details without consent. And says even V5C documents dont display previous 
keeper details for this reason. The notes from LVs interview detail Mr Hs response that he 
was concerned about GDPR rules and wasnt willing to hand over contact details for the 
seller until he had confirmed he was happy for this to happen.
   
I have considered in detail the investigations LV carried out, and the basis on which it 
decided to decline Mr Hs claim. But I dont think its done enough to fairly decline the claim 
based on the reasons it gave.  
There is a discrepancy with the mileage data stored in the key compared to the mileage Mr 
Hs car is known to have covered. But the manufacturers response confirms there could be 
a problem with the car reading the key. My understanding is that this issue cant be verified 
further without access to the car, which isnt possible. But I think this reasonably identifies 
doubt that the mileage discrepancy must be the result of the key not being used. In its response to our investigators view LV says:
The main issue, that we think is being missed is that Mr [H] has provided us with a key that 
doesnt work. As the key doesnt work were not sure how he would have been able to drive 
the car only hours before, the car is then stolen and then the key stops working for no 
apparent reason. Our concerns are with the validity of the information presented by Mr [H].
I have seen evidence more recently that shows the key battery had a charge when tested by 
Mr H. He also points out that the key battery is charged when inserted into the car ignition. I 
note that LVs key specialist reported that, the remote buttons in the head arent working, 
likely due to a dead battery.  
This information is conflicting. I think this raises doubt that the battery was flat at the time 
leading up to Mr Hs claim  preventing him from using this key to drive his car. 
I acknowledge LVs view that the car couldnt have been stolen without a key. But I dont 
think its shown that its an impossibility for this type of car to be taken without a key. Its not 
for Mr H to show how his car couldve been stolen he only needs to show that he has 
suffered an insured loss. Its for LV to demonstrate why its policy doesnt provide cover. 
I have read Mr Hs policy terms. LV has declined his claim relying on the following policy 
exclusion:
Loss or damage to the insured car by theft or attempted theft if the ignition key or other 
ignition device is left in, on or attached to or left in the immediate proximity of the insured 
car.  
For the reasons I have given, I dont think LVs investigations has reasonably shown Mr H 
had possession of two keys. Or that he left a key in the car, which allowed it to be stolen. 
Its not my role to determine how the theft occurred. My role is to consider whether LV 
behaved fairly when investigating the claim and that the evidence obtained supports its 
conclusions. For the reasons I have discussed here I dont think LV has investigated 
sufficiently or that it can reasonably decline the claim on the basis it has. 
Because of this I think its fair that LV reconsiders Mr Hs claim based on the remaining 
policy terms. For clarity, this doesnt mean LV must accept the claim, only that it should 
consider it without relying on the policy exclusion it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited should now:
reconsider Mr Hs claim based on the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman