DRN-1924557
The complaint
Mr T says that he was not informed by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) when 
extended warranty protection was removed from his Flex Plus Account (FPA) benefits and 
he lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr T took out an FPA with Nationwide in 2013. Its benefits included family travel insurance, 
car breakdown service, family mobile phone insurance and extended warranty protection.
Nationwide changed the FPA benefits in September 2017, including removing the extended 
warranty protection.
Mr T says the only reason he had the FPA was for the extended warranty protection and 
Nationwide did not notify him of its removal. So he says he was paying for an account he 
didnt want from September 2017 onwards.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr T disagrees, so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide says it sent him a letter about the change to the FPA in May 2017, Mr T says he 
did not receive it and knew nothing about the removal of the extended warranty protection.
Nationwide has sent me a template copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr T. In my view the 
template copy letter does clearly explain the change to the FPA.
I have no proof from the parties that the letter was either sent by Nationwide or not received 
by Mr T.
The fact that the template exists, and other customers received it shows Nationwides 
intention to send it and that it put in place a process for doing so. The fact that Mr T 
cancelled his account in March 2020, when he says he became aware that extended 
warranty was no longer provided suggests that he valued that part of the product highly and 
didnt know it had been removed in 2017.
Its impossible for me to know what happened so I must decide what I think is more likely 
than not to have occurred.
Ive decided that I think its more likely than not that Mr T did know about the change to the 
FPA. 
I say this because he appears to have received Nationwides other correspondence either by 
post or email before and after the FPA change, and Nationwide says it has no record of his 
mail being returned. So I think its unlikely that the FPA change correspondence didnt get to 
him.
The account fee went up from £10 a month to £13 a month at the time, a 30% increase and I 
think its likely he would have noticed this, and it would have caused him to review what he 
was getting for his money. 
And while I dont doubt Mr Ts honest recollections about his particular interest in the 
extended warranty service, I think its possible his memory may be mistaken and there were 
other things of interest to him in the substantial range of benefits the account provided during 
the time he had it.
I know Mr T will be disappointed by this, but I dont think its fair for me to uphold his case 
and return the fees he paid for the FPA since the change in September 2017 as he requests.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman