DRN-4063491
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services, who Ill 
call Alphera.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, and I have sympathy with the situation she finds herself in 
given her health concerns. But Im afraid I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest 
the car she has been financing was of unsatisfactory quality, and Im therefore not upholding 
her complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and as a result, our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt, then Alphera, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was about 
four and a half years old and had already completed a little over 27,000 miles. So, I think 
some wear and tear was to be expected, and that the car wouldnt be fault free, as would 
perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present or 
developing when the car was supplied. I think the business had that opportunity when they 
fixed the fault that had caused the engine management light to illuminate in November 2021, 
shortly after Miss M took receipt of the car. I think the evidence suggests that the repair 
completed at that time worked (despite the lack of job sheets to explain what was done) as I 
dont think theres evidence of the fault reoccurring, and Miss M appears to have been able 
to drive trouble free for some time.
The car broke down again in September 2022, and it seems the car is now suffering from a 
gearbox module issue. Alphera are only responsible for faults that were present or 
developing on the car when it was supplied. That would include problems that suggested the 
car or its components hadnt been durable. I dont think its likely the gearbox problem was 
present or developing when Miss M took receipt of the car. I say that because:
The fault appears to be an electrical one, and electrical faults tend to happen 
suddenly and without warning. I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest that 
means the car hasnt been durable.
Miss M has been able to drive the car without that issue for about 11 months and 
6,400 or so miles. I think the fault would have presented itself earlier if it had been 
present or developing from the start.
Given the amount of time Miss M had the car before the gearbox issues presented 
themselves, I think the onus was on her to demonstrate the problem was present at 
the point of supply. So, I dont think Alphera were unreasonable not to take a more 
proactive approach here.
Its for those reasons that I dont think I have sufficient evidence this car has been of 
unsatisfactory quality, and Im therefore not asking Alphera to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman