DRN-3088948
The complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of his ISA by Nationwide Building Society, referred to as 
the transferee, from a third-party business, referred to as the transferor
What happened
On 8 February 2020, Mr W requested the transfer of his Stocks and Shares ISA to 
Nationwide. The process wasnt completed until 2 April 2020, so Mr W complained about the 
delays. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said it wasnt responsible for the delays. 
Nevertheless, it backdated the interest payment to 8 February 2020.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Although the standard time for ISA transfers is 30 calendar days, and the transfer 
took longer, she cant say that Nationwide has behaved unreasonably. 
Shes satisfied that the sequence of events is as suggested by Nationwide and is 
supported by screenshots.  Shes satisfied by the following chronology:
oAt 3.36pm, on 21 February 2020, Nationwide spoke to the transferor and sent 
a certified copy of the paperwork as the previous documentation hadnt been 
received. 
oAt 10:57am, on 26 February 2020, Nationwide spoke to the transferor which 
confirmed that it received a certified copy of the paperwork that day and 
would respond in the next couple of days. 
oAt 2:49pm, on 9 March 2020, Nationwide spoke to the transferor which 
confirmed that the funds (in the sum of £64,628) would be sent via cheque in 
the next 10 working days.  
oAt 10:01am, on 20 March 20, Nationwide called the transferor but received no 
answer.
oAt 9:27am, on 23 March 2020, Nationwide called the transferor but received 
no answer after six minutes. It was noted that 10 days  since the update on 
9 March 2020  had elapsed, so Nationwide will give another three days to 
give the cheque some time to arrive and be applied to the account. 
oAt 9:14am, on 26 March 2020, the funds still hadnt arrived so Nationwide 
decided to wait another three days before calling the transferor again.
oAt 2:55pm, on 31 March 20, Nationwide was awaiting the cheque clearing.   
Given that Nationwide was the receiving party, other than sending the request and 
responding to any potential query, there wasnt much more it couldve reasonably 
done to speed up the process. 
The above notwithstanding, Nationwide has behaved reasonably, and hasnt caused 
any unnecessary delays.  
Shes pleased to see that Nationwide  of its own volition  has backdated the 
interest until the date of request to ensure that Mr M didnt lose out. 
Because Nationwide hasnt acted unreasonably or made an error, she wont be 
asking for it to do anything further.  
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
provided evidence  including from the British Bankers Association (BBA)  that he said 
shows that Nationwide, as the transferee, was primarily responsible for ensuring that the 
transfer was undertaken within the required timescale. Hes unhappy that his plans to invest 
and purchase additional shares have been delayed. 
Mr M also said:
I do not agree with your opinion that it was reasonable for Nationwide to wait from 
Wednesday, 26 February 2020, until Monday, 9 March 2020, before chasing up the funds 
that the transferor (name anonymised) had told them would be sent on 27 or 28 February 
2020. 
Nationwide were aware that the funds were already held as cash on 8 February 2020. The 
guidelines allow one day for the transit of funds by first class post. The funds should have 
been delivered to Nationwide on Saturday 29 February 2020, at the latest. Nationwide 
should have chased up transferor on Monday 2 March 2020, and not a further week later on 
9 March 2020.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
view. In summary, she said that each party had a part to play in the transfer process 
although the sending party probably had to do most of the work. However, it was also for the 
receiving party to chase up if it hasnt received a response.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, I 
cant safely say that Nationwide behaved unreasonably in this instance, so Im not upholding 
this complaint. 
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Ms strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and Nationwide, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and 
best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate Mr W wants to know which of the two businesses  Nationwide or the transferor 
 is to blame. However, in this case Im only considering the actions of Nationwide. 
I understand that the transfer request from Mr W was received by Nationwide on 8 February 
2020. Nationwide checked the documents and sent the request  to the transferor  the 
same day.   Based on the chronology, Im satisfied that between then, and 9 March 2020, Nationwide 
took reasonable steps to chase up the transferor including providing a set of certified 
documents because (for whatever reason) the transferor didnt receive the first request in the 
post. 
Its possible that the first request was lost in the post. But if that was the case, it wasnt of 
Nationwides doing, and I cant blame Nationwide for the actions of a third-party postal 
service. 
In the circumstances I cant safely say that Nationwide behaved unreasonably by not 
checking with the transferor sooner to see if it had received the request  there was no 
obvious reason for Nationwide to think it hadnt. In other words, I dont think Nationwide 
behaved unreasonably by waiting 10 or so working days before checking with the transferor.    
On 9 March 2020, I note that Nationwide was advised by the transferor that it would receive 
a cheque within 10 working days, taking the date to 23 March 2020. In the absence of the 
payment, I note Nationwide chased the transferor again. In the circumstances, I dont think it 
couldve done any more. 
On 31 March 2020, I note Nationwide received a letter from the transferor dated 26 March 
2020 with a cheque to the value of £64,628 enclosed. Nationwide immediately processed 
the cheque, which cleared on 2 April 2020. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that Nationwide  as the 
transferee  behaved unreasonably, or that its responsible for the delays experienced by Mr 
W. I note that Nationwide, of its own volition, has backdated the interest payment to 8 
February 2020 so that Mr W doesnt lose out in any case.  
Im aware that Mr W had plans to reinvest the proceeds of his transfer, but on balance I cant 
blame Nationwide for any delays he experienced.   
Ive considered the additional information provided by Mr W in relation to the BBA guidelines, 
and what he says about it. I note the document states We recommend that ISA providers 
adopt the procedures below, devised by representatives of the industry. They are 
recommendations only and not prescriptive. Notwithstanding the guidelines provided, I cant 
safely say that Nationwide has behaved unreasonably. Theres nothing within the guidelines 
to suggest that Nationwide shouldve been chasing the transferor every two or three days. 
In this instance, two independent parties were involved in a transfer process. One business 
isnt responsible for the actions of another, therefore I cant say that Nationwide is 
responsible for the transferors actions if it didnt respond when it said it would.  
I appreciate that Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the 
face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give 
him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman