DRN-4376916
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that a claim she made under a home emergency policy arranged 
through Insure Group Limited (Insure) was declined because the policy had been cancelled.
References to Insure include its agents and representatives.
What happened
Mrs M took out a home emergency policy through Insure on 25 April 2022. Her policy 
schedule confirmed this as the policy commencement date. When she made a claim for an 
issue with her front and back doors, Insure said that the policy had been cancelled. Mrs M 
wasnt aware that the policy had been cancelled. 
Insure says that the policy was cancelled on 17 May 2022 because the company providing 
the credit for the finance for the policy wasnt able to carry out its validation checks as Mrs M 
hadnt provided any form of the photo ID which it required. It  therefore wasnt able to collect 
any payments of premium from her. Insure says that it attempted to contact Mrs M multiple 
times to make her aware of this before cancelling the policy. As no payment had been 
collected from her, no further cover was provided. Mrs M believed that shed been paying 
premiums and wanted these returned. 
Ive listened to a telephone conversation Mrs M had with Insure in which she told its agent 
that she didnt have any photo ID. She was told that in the absence of photo ID, a utility bill 
and a letter from HMRC could be provided instead. Shed provided these. Shed then heard 
nothing more and had assumed that the policy had taken effect.
Insure has said that the policy had been marked for removal as it hadnt been taken up with 
the finance provider. As Mrs M never made payment for the policy the cover was cancelled. 
However, as it was not taken up, its system didnt recognize this as a cancellation or issue a 
cancellation email automatically.
However, despite telling her that her policy had been cancelled, Insures claims 
administrators arranged for the doors to be rectified as there was a problem with the central 
locking system. This job was started, and the old locking system was removed, but when it 
became apparent that there was no policy in place, the job wasnt completed.
Mrs M was left with doors held closed with a plastic clip which doesnt comply with the 
security requirements of home insurance, and which leaked. Mrs M was told that shed need 
to  pay for the doors to be fixed and was quoted £546 for this, which she says was more 
than the cost of two new doors. Insure said that the claims administrators had been wrong to 
accept the claim, but that that was the fault of the claims administrators. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Insures rejection of her claim and brough her complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view, after taking further guidance, was that Insure didnt follow up 
with Mrs M the fact that the identification shed provided, with guidance from Insure, was 
insufficient. Insure didnt write to her to tell her that her policy couldnt become effective. His 
view was that Insure should pay Mrs M £100 for inconvenience and also cover the costs of 
the outstanding work needed to fix her doors for which work had been started but not 
completed.
In response to our investigators view, Insure has said that since June 2022 it has sent a 
letter to customers confirming if a policy has been cancelled if verification checks fail. This 
suggests that this wasnt its practice before that date. It agreed to pay Mrs M compensation 
of £100 for the inconvenience of not being told that the policy was cancelled, but it didnt 
agree to pay the costs of Mrs Ms claim as it says it wasnt responsible for the fact that an 
engineer attended to try to fix Mrs Ms doors.
As Insure doesnt agree with our investigators view, Mrs Ms complaint has been referred to 
me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and Ill give my reasons.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation that Mrs M had with Insure when taking out her 
policy. As she opted to pay her premium monthly, she was told that this would be handled by 
a third- party finance company to whom she would need to apply. She was told that in the 
event that her application for finance was unsuccessful, Insure would notify her and shed 
have to make alternative arrangements for the payment of her premiums. Ive not seen any 
evidence of such notification having been provided to her.
In my view, it was for Insure to make it clear to Mrs M that her policy had not become 
effective. Im not satisfied that it did. Mrs M says she didnt receive anything from Insure to 
inform her. She therefore continued to assume she was covered. Had she been told she 
wasnt, she couldve looked for insurance elsewhere, or arranged for a policy with Insure in 
her husbands name as he wouldve been able to provide the required photo ID. So when 
she needed to make a claim, she wasnt covered and has suffered loss.
The fact that the claim was initially attended and a repair started, although not completed, is 
further justification for Insure now being responsible for the repair being completed. Mrs M 
was left with a half-completed job and an insecure home. Mrs M wouldnt have ended up in 
this position had it been made clear to her from the outset that her policy wasnt effective. 
It is my view that, in addition to the £100 compensation it has agreed to pay Mrs M, Insure 
should pay for the cost of the necessary repair to her doors. This isnt a cost she wouldve 
had to pay had she been insured, and she couldve been by making alternative 
arrangements if shed been told in May 2022 that her policy wasnt effective. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
I require Insure Group Limited to arrange for the repair to Mrs Ms doors to be completed.
I also require it to pay her £100 compensation if this hasnt already been paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman