DRN-3966957
The complaint
Ms H complains Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded transactions that shes disputed.
What happened
Ms H had a Monzo account between June 2022 and November 2022.
Monzo gave Ms H notice of its intention to close her account in September 2022. Monzo did 
so after Ms H disputed multiple transactions on three separate occasions in the first three 
months of her account being open. This complaint is about transactions that Ms H disputed 
in August 2022. Ms H says she was a victim of fraud on 18, 19 and 31 August 2022. 
Ms H says that the first two frauds involved withdrawals using her debit card. She says she 
was forced to make withdrawals from an ATM by a local thug and that withdrawals were 
made by someone else before and after her daughter had used and returned her card to 
make a withdrawal. Ms H says her card was loose in her bag when she needed it for her 
daughter and that it went missing for a day after her daughter returned it.
Ms H says she was logged into her Monzo app on 31 August 2022 and got kicked out of it 
and then kicked out of her email. She says her account was emptied whilst she wasnt able 
to get into it - £520 was sent to a new payee that she didnt recognise. Ms H says that she 
believes that people who were staying in her house at the time were responsible for this.
Ms H contacted Monzo to dispute these transactions. Having investigated, Monzo told Ms H 
that it wasnt going to refund the transactions as shed not kept her security information 
secure. Monzo accepts  given the communications she had with Monzo at the time  that 
Ms H was vulnerable when these disputed transactions took place.
Ms H complained about Monzos decision not to refund the transactions, so it investigated 
her complaint. Having done so, Monzo said that the decision not to refund the transactions 
was the right outcome. Ms H complained to us saying asking for her money back. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint and said that Monzo hadnt acted 
unfairly when it said it wouldnt refund the first two sets of transactions as Ms H hadnt kept 
her security information secure. But it hadnt shown that Ms H had authorised the £520 
transfer, intentionally failed to keep her security information secure or acted with gross 
negligence as far as that transaction was concerned. So, our investigator recommended 
Monzo refund that transaction. Monzo didnt reply to our investigators recommendations, so 
an ombudsman was asked to consider this complaint. Thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Monzo and our investigator that Ms H didnt keep her security information 
secure  she gave her card and PIN to her daughter and her card was left unattended after 
her daughter had used it, amongst other things. I also agree that it wasnt unfair of Monzo to 
say it wasnt going to refund the ATM withdrawals Ms H disputed because of this. Monzo 
had told Ms H the previous month that it was important she kept her security information 
secure. She said she would, but then didnt.
I agree that Ms H was vulnerable at the time  she was having problems with her mental 
health, addictions and spent time in hospital, amongst other things. This is evident in the 
calls and messages Ms H sent  and may well explain inconsistencies in Ms Hs testimony 
about all three frauds, and in particular the final one. Those inconsistencies meant it wasnt 
easy for Monzo to investigate the transactions Ms H was disputing. I understand that. It is, 
nevertheless, up to Monzo to establish that Ms H consented to the transactions she was 
disputing in order to hold her liable for them or was grossly negligent, for example.
Our investigator didnt think Monzo had done enough to show that Ms H had authorised the 
transfer on 31 August 2021 because the evidence Monzo sent didnt show the withdrawal 
had been authorised on a trusted device, amongst other things. I agree, based on the 
evidence that Monzo has sent us, that it hasnt done so. Ill explain why.
Monzo has said that Ms H was using two different devices at the time of the disputed 
transaction, both of which were trusted devices. Its also said that the person carrying out the 
disputed withdrawal would have needed to access Ms Hs email address and would have 
needed her PIN. The evidence Monzo has sent doesnt, however, show that the withdrawal 
was done on a trusted device. More importantly, the evidence shows that the device that 
was used to do the withdrawal had a different ISP address to the one Ms H normally used. 
And more importantly still, its clear from Ms Hs evidence that she had people in her house 
at the time who not only probably took advantage of her, but also had multiple opportunities 
to discover Ms Hs PIN and phone passcode. In other words, people who could have made 
the disputed transfer.
Ive taken this into account, and the fact that the transfer went to a person who Ms H had 
never sent money to before, emptying her account out in the process and causing significant 
difficulties. Having done so, I agree that in this particular case, Monzo hasnt shown that a 
third party didnt make this payment without Ms Hs knowledge or authorisation, and that it 
should, therefore, refund the transfer.Putting things right
I agree, given what Ive just said, that Monzo should refund the £520 transfer.
I can see that Ms H has experienced a lot of distress given everything thats happened to 
her. But I dont think I can say Monzo handled what was a difficult investigation  not least 
because of the inconsistencies in Ms Hs testimony  unfairly or inappropriately. So, I dont 
think any additional award  other than 8% simple interest  would be appropriate in this 
particular case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint in part. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to 
refund the £520 transfer to Ms H along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman