DRN-1540569
Complaint and background
Mrs M says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her irresponsibly. She had four loans with Uncle 
Buck, as I've set out in the table below.
Loan 
no.Amount 
(£) Start date End date
1 200 10/09/2015 30/11/2015
2 500 16/01/2016 31/03/2016
3 700 04/04/2016 05/05/2016
4 400 11/07/2016 07/10/2019
I sent Mrs M and Uncle Buck my provisional findings on her complaint on 21 January 2020. I 
explained why I wasn't planning to uphold Mrs M's complaint and asked both parties to let 
me know if they had anything else they wanted me to consider. The main part of my 
provisional findings was as follows:
"Before lending to Mrs M, Uncle Buck asked her to provide some information about her 
income and expenditure. Mrs M declared a monthly income of £2,364 for loan 1, £3,450 for 
loans 2 and 3 and £3,400 for loan 4. Mrs M's declared expenditure totalled £1,450 for loans 
1 to 3 and £1,850 for loan 4. This left Mrs M with a notional disposable income of no less 
than £914 per month.
Uncle Buck also carried out credit checks as part of its affordability assessment. I've seen 
that the credit checks suggested that Mrs M had some other short-term loans at the same 
time as she borrowed from Uncle Buck. Uncle Buck's credit agency data suggests Mrs M 
had two other short-terms loans when she applied for loans 2 and 3 and one other short 
term loan when she applied for loan 4. There is nothing in the credit checks to suggest Mrs 
M had any other short-term loans when she asked for loan 1.
Uncle Buck argues that having one or two other short-term loans - bearing in mind what Mrs
M said about her income and outgoings - doesn't mean loans 2 to 4 were not sustainably 
affordable. I've thought about this carefully and, looking at all the facts in Mrs M's case, I'm 
inclined to agree. I've noted that for loans 2 to 4, Uncle Buck's credit history search 
suggested the total balances for her other short-term loans remained almost static and then 
decreased substantially by the time of loan 4. So I don't think the overall picture is one of 
Mrs M's indebtedness increasing unsustainably at the times Uncle Buck chose to lend to 
her. Similarly, although the amounts Mrs M borrowed from Uncle Buck did increase from 
loans 1 to 3, there was then a noticeable decrease for loan 4.
I've noted that the gaps between the loans were not particularly significant. But taking into 
account the overall amount of time Mrs M spent indebted to Uncle Buck, I don't think the 
pattern demonstrates that the borrowing was becoming unsustainable."
Uncle Buck said it didn't have anything to add. Mrs M said she was disappointed with the 
decision. She felt that if Uncle Buck had carried out the appropriate checks it would've seen 
she was relying heavily on payday loans. By offering her a higher credit limit, she thought 
Uncle Buck made it too tempting to take out further loans to pay off her debts. She also mentioned that Uncle Buck didn't support her when she could no longer afford the 
repayments.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
I've thought about the points Mrs M raised in response to my provisional decision - although 
I had already originally considered whether Uncle Buck's checks were proportionate and 
whether it ought to have suspected Mrs M had a harmful reliance on credit. Having 
considered these points again, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and 
my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
I can understand why Mrs M feels Uncle Buck could've done more to check whether its 
loans were affordable. I had noted the increase in her borrowing, particularly when looking at 
loan 3. But Mrs M's reported income also increased substantially at this point and her 
declared expenditure left her with comfortably enough income to make her payments to 
Uncle Buck. And while I can see Uncle Buck's credit checks did show Mrs M had some other 
short-term debt, I'm still not persuaded that Uncle Buck ought to have realised that the loans 
it agreed were not affordable for Mrs M.
I've noted that Mrs M has said Uncle Buck didn't do enough to support her when she was in 
financial difficulty. But I can't comment on that, as I've not seen this is something Mrs M 
raised as part of her original complaint.
I'm sorry to see that Mrs M found herself in financial difficulty and sorry too to hear of the 
effect this had on her health. But for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, 
I'm not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs M's complaint against Uncle Buck Finance LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman