DRN-2006754
 
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds delay in 
providing her with a hire car, and the service she received, following an accident. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and arent in dispute, so I wont 
repeat them here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint for these reasons:
I think there was an avoidable delay in AA arranging a courtesy car for Miss B. 
Looking at the evidence available I can see AA first became aware of the need for a 
courtesy car on 3 October 2019, the day Miss B first contacted them. An instruction 
was sent to their appointed repairer, to collect the car from where it had been towed 
by the police whod attended the scene of the accident. But it wasnt until 7 October 
2019, four days later, the car was collected and a courtesy car provided.
Ive noted AAs comments about there only being a two day delay due to the 
repairers being closed on Saturday afternoon and Sunday. But I dont think this 
explains the rest of the delay. Miss B has evidenced that during this time she 
incurred expenses travelling to and from work, due to not having use of a car. She 
has evidenced her loss of £41.30 with receipts which she provided to AA. Im 
persuaded that if AA had acted more promptly then Miss B wouldnt have had to 
spend this money or experienced the inconvenience of having to arrange alternative 
travel.
During this time Miss B also contacted AA on more than one occasion, 
understandably wanting to sort out a courtesy car. If AA had acted sooner, she would 
have been spared this inconvenience. 
I find that there was a short delay providing Miss B with a courtesy car, and as a 
result she was inconvenienced.
Im satisfied that the courtesy car provided was a standard category A vehicle in 
accordance with the policy terms.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Miss Bs complaint and I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Reimburse Miss B £41.30 for the travel expenses she incurred between 4 October 
2019 and 7 October 2019.
Pay Miss B £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delay and for 
having to contact AA on more than one occasion.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman