DRN-1416545
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt help her get back some money she 
transferred into her childs Junior ISA by mistake. 
What happened
Ms N told us that she transferred her entire salary, by mistake, into a junior ISA she held for 
her child. She said she urgently needed this money back, to pay rent and other bills. 
Santander said that transfers into an account like this are covered by special tax rules. They 
arent usually refundable. Santander said it had contacted HMRC and it couldnt get this 
money back for Ms N. She could complain directly to HMRC if she wanted to, but Santander 
said it understood that unfortunately there was little hope of HMRC allowing the money to be 
returned. 
Our investigator checked with HMRC too, and it said the same. The money couldnt just be 
transferred back. Ms N had said that she was confused by a redesign of the app, but our 
investigator thought that the app wouldve displayed the two accounts clearly before the 
transfer was done. So our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said 
Santander had done what our service would expect it to. It had tried to help Ms N. It simply 
wasnt able to, because of the special rules that govern junior ISAs. 
Ms N wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Weve asked Ms N whether 
there were any points that shed particularly disagreed with, but she didnt reply. Ms Ns 
complaint was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
Ms N told us that she transferred this money in error, and she urgently needed it back. But 
Santander explained why it cant pay this back. The money that goes into an account like 
this is a gift to the child, and it cant be taken back. 
As our investigator explained, there are very limited provisions allowing money to go back, 
but those only apply when money has been wrongly transferred to an entirely unrelated 
child, for instance, if someone gets the account number wrong as part of a transfer, and 
money is sent to the junior ISA of someone they dont know at all. Those very limited 
provisions dont help Ms N, who accidentally transferred the money to her own child. 
All I can do in this case is consider the action Santander took. I think it investigated promptly 
whether it could return this money, and unfortunately found it wasnt able to. Its governed by 
HMRC rules that wont let it move money back out of this account. Santander did get in 
touch with HMRC to see if there was any way it could move this money, but was told no.
I know that this has left Ms N in an extremely difficult position, but that isnt Santanders fault. 
It just couldnt move the money back. 
 Ms N said she thought Santander was at least partly responsible for this mistake, because it 
had redesigned its app, and Ms N said that was confusing. Our investigator said that it 
wouldnt be reasonable for us to prevent Santander from making changes to its app, and I 
think thats right. She also said that the key point was around how the two accounts were 
displayed. Our investigator asked Ms N to send us further evidence on this, and she hasnt 
done so. I have seen the Santander app, and overall I cant say that I found it to be 
confusing or user-unfriendly. So I dont think that Santander is responsible for this mistake.
I dont think I can ask Santander to do any more than it already has done. And, for those 
reasons, Im sorry to have to tell Ms N that I dont think her complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman