DRN-4081651
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that, even though he cancelled a car hed ordered through Promas 
Enterprises Limited trading as Lease4Less (L4L), L4L are still asking him to pay a fee.
What happened
Mr B contacted L4L, a credit broker, to order him a new car and arrange finance for this. He 
signed the paperwork on 15 and 16 September 2022, which confirmed that a £300 
administration fee would be payable. Mr B contacted L4L on 19 September 2022 to cancel 
the order. And, while L4L did this, they told Mr B that the £300 was still payable. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that L4L hadnt been able to provide a breakdown of their fee, and what 
it was for. And she said that Mr B had asked to cancel the agreement within three days of 
signing the last of the documents (a period which included a weekend and a public holiday). 
The investigator also referred to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), specifically section 
155. She said that, while the terms Mr B had agreed to said the fee wasnt refundable, 
section 155 of the CCA said that (because Mr B hadnt entered into a regulated agreement 
within six months) L4L were only entitled to keep £5 of the fee. As such, the investigator said 
that L4L should only charge Mr B £5.
The investigator also said that L4L should pay Mr B £50 for the upset hed been caused by 
being pursued for a £300 fee. So, she said that L4L should deduct the £5 fee Mr B owed 
from this and pay him the remaining £45.
Mr B agreed with the investigator, but L4L didnt. They said they are members of an industry 
trade body and are required to follow their code of conduct. Which means that their 
documentation is regularly audited to ensure compliance. They also explained the process 
they go through when dealing with an order for a new car. And, because of this, they felt that 
their administration fee remained payable in full.
The investigator considered these comments and explained to L4L why these didnt change 
her mind. This explanation also included a reference to the CCA. In response, L4L again 
explained why they didnt think their fee should be reduced.
As L4L remained unhappy, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. L4L ordered the car for Mr B as an ancillary action to their credit 
broking activity  the car was only ordered by L4L as they were also arranging the finance 
for Mr B, so the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit broking is a regulated activity, this is 
something were able to look at.
When Mr B ordered the car through L4L, the Vehicle Order Form showed that an 
administration fee of £300 including VAT was payable. And its not disputed that this 
represents L4Ls fee for arranging the finance agreement and ordering the car.
The terms and conditions on the Vehicle Order Form which Mr B signed on 16 September 
2022 makes no reference to the administration fee. However, they do state:
Once the vehicle order has been accepted by the Manufacturer this Order Form  
represents a contract for both the supply of the vehicle and the finance element 
associated with its supply, and only in exceptional circumstances and at the 
discretion of the company will the cancellation of the order of the vehicle be 
accepted. A cancellation fee of £500 + VAT will be required.
Ive also seen L4Ls general terms and conditions, which state:
We are a credit broker and not a lender.
Upon receipt of your enquiry, subject to the terms within the order form, we will both 
have entered into a contractual agreement. To fulfil our obligation to you, we will in 
turn order the vehicle from a supplying dealership and enter into a contract with 
them, which will, if cancelled, incur cancellation fees to be levied against us.
We will require you to pay us a non-refundable Administration Fee of £250 + Vat to 
cover the costs associated with providing your agreement, sourcing the vehicle on 
your behalf and ordering the vehicle with the supplier. This Fee is payable within 7 
days of you placing an order.
Furthermore, the Initial Disclosure Document says we charge a fee for our Business 
contract hire of £250.00 excluding VAT and £300.00 including VAT respectively.
Based on what Ive seen, given that the amounts are the same, and Mr B was only asked to 
pay this amount once, Im satisfied that what L4L separately refer to as an administration fee 
and a business contract hire fee are in fact one and the same fee. 
Ive also seen evidence L4L placed an order for a car of the same make and model as is 
detailed on Mr Bs Vehicle Order Form on 16 September 2022. And that this order was 
subsequently cancelled.
L4Ls terms and conditions quite clearly state they are credit brokers. They also state they 
are able to charge a cancellation fee of £500 plus VAT, but in this instance they chose not to 
do this. Section 155 of the CCA says that Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of 
a fee or commission for his services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this 
subsection applies shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by 
the individual if the introduction does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement 
within the six months following the introduction.Given that, as the car hasnt been supplied and I havent seen that Mr B has entered into a 
relevant agreement within six months of him signing the paperwork, Im satisfied that section 
155 of the CCA only allows L4L to charge £5 of the fee. However, I also need to consider 
that the terms Mr B agreed to say the fee paid isnt refundable. 
Section 173 of the CCA says a term contained in a regulated agreement or linked 
transaction, or in any other agreement relating to an actual or prospective regulated 
agreement, or linked transaction, is void if, to the extent that, it is inconsistent with a 
provision for the protection of the debtor or hirer or his relative or any surety contained in this 
Act or in any regulation made under this Act.
The agreement Mr B signed with L4L is a linked transaction to the regulated agreement they 
were arranging to finance the car. As such, Im satisfied that Section 173 of the CCA applies 
in this instance. This means that any of L4Ls terms are void if they are inconsistent with the 
CCA. And the no refund term is inconsistent with Section 155 of the CCA. Which means 
that, in this instance, L4Ls non-refund term is void and they are only able to charge Mr B £5.
This is not to say that I havent considered L4Ls comments about their process and their 
trade body, and their costs in arranging the finance and ordering the car. However, their 
cancellation fee term accounts for this, and allows them to cover their costs involved. As 
such, I dont think that applying the terms of the CCA is therefore inherently unfair.
Notwithstanding this, Ive also seen that, in this instance, L4L chose not to charge a 
cancellation fee in September 2022. This was a business decision they were entitled to take, 
but it doesnt mean that they can now retrospectively apply this fee just because their non-
refund term is inconsistent with the CCA and invalid. So, had L4L not chosen to not charge 
the cancellation fee, they could fairly charge this. But I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable for them to retrospectively reverse this decision.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that it wouldve come as a shock to Mr B to be asked 
to pay the £300 administration fee, especially as he cancelled the order within a few days of 
completing the paperwork, and that those days would all be reasonably considered to be 
non-working days. Im also satisfied that continually being asked to pay this fee would also 
be upsetting.
As such, Im in agreement that L4L should compensate Mr B for the upset hes been caused. 
The investigator has recommended a payment of £50 to recognise this. And I think this is a 
fair recommendation and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. And given 
that, under the CRA, L4L can charge £5 for their services, I think its also reasonable that 
this fee is deducted from this compensation.
So, L4L should:
cancel any invoices and/or collection activity associated with the £300 fee, and
pay Mr B a net £45 compensation for the upset hes been caused.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And Promas Enterprises Limited 
trading as Lease4Less should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman