DRN-3104774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were given incorrect information by Accord Mortgages 
Limited (Accord) when they asked how they might pay if they redeemed their mortgage 
early. They say the relevant fees werent explained when they took out the mortgage, and 
want Accord to refund some of the charge they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an offset mortgage in 2014. This type of mortgage was 
recommended to them by a financial intermediary (a broker). In 2016 the fixed interest rate 
period was coming to an end, and Mr and Mrs G asked Accord for a follow on product  
essentially a new fixed interest rate term.
Accord recommended a product, which Mr and Mrs G accepted. In 2020 Mr and Mrs G 
made enquiries about how much theyd have to pay as an early repayment charge (ERC) if 
they repaid the mortgage  and Accord gave them the wrong information. When Mr and   
Mrs G came to repay the mortgage they were disappointed to find they need to pay a higher  
ERC than they thought. They also said the ERC wasnt clearly explained in 2016 and that if it 
had been theyd have probably chosen a different product with a lower ERC.
They complained and Accord apologised for the mistake and said it would pay them £80 to 
make up for the inconvenience and for their phone calls. But it said that the ERC had been 
clearly explained both in the offer letter sent in 2016 and on subsequent annual statements.
Mr and Mrs G dont think the compensation is enough so they asked us to review the 
complaint.
Our investigator thought the ERC had been clearly explained, and that the compensation 
was enough to make up for the mistake Accord had made during a phone call.
Mr and Mrs G remain unhappy and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator.
Firstly, I must explain that this decision is about what Accord did during the product transfer 
process in 2016  its not about what happened when Mr and Mrs G originally took out their 
mortgage in 2014. And I see that Accord doesnt have a copy of the call recording from 
2016. Thats understandable given the time that has passed. But it does mean Ive had to 
rely on the paperwork provided by both parties to reach my decision.
I think there are two main parts to this complaint and Ill deal with them separately.
The ERC
Mr and Mrs G say this wasnt explained clearly in 2016  and if it had been they might have 
taken a different product, such as a standard repayment mortgage, rather than continuing 
with the offset mortgage they already had.
It seems to me that Mr and Mrs G were content with the offset mortgage itself  and I cant 
say they were poorly advised by Accord to continue with this type of mortgage. It had been 
suitable for them a couple of years earlier and I havent seen anything that suggests this was 
no longer the case. Theyd come to the end of the initial two year fixed rate period, which 
was subject to ERCS. The new product was a five year fixed rate with ERCs. These are 
often linked to the length of the fixed rate period, so Id expect them to be different in amount 
from the earlier product. 
Ive checked the mortgage offer carefully, as Mr and Mrs G say the ERC information was a 
long way into the document. It was in section 10, on about page 5. But its clearly headed 
What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more and theres a substantial table 
giving examples of what ERCs would apply in different time periods. I think this is clear  
and Mr and Mrs G signed the offer confirming they agreed to this. On each annual statement 
they received after this theres a section showing how much ERC theyd pay if they repaid 
the mortgage before a set date. I cant see that Mr and Mrs G queried the amount of the 
ERC on any of these. Id have expected them to do that if they thought the ERCs on the 
annual statements werent in line with the amount they thought they might have to pay.
Im satisfied Accord made the ERC charges clear.
Communication
Accord has acknowledged that it gave Mr and Mrs G the wrong ERC amount at one point. 
And Mr and Mrs G think that means Accord should compensate them by refunding a large 
portion of the ERC they were due to pay. I dont agree with that. When a business makes a 
mistake, the right thing to do is put the customer in the position they were in before the 
mistakes was made. If Accord had got the ERC figure right, Mr and Mrs G would have 
known they were due to pay a higher amount. And they wouldnt have been disappointed 
when they had to pay the correct amount. But its still fair for them to pay the correct amount 
 especially as this had been clearly described in their offer.
I do agree they had their expectations raised by Accords mistake. But I think the 
compensation for this and the phone calls they made is fair. So Im not going to ask Accord 
to do any more than it has.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it with Mr and Mrs G whether to 
accept the compensation of £80 if it hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman