DRN-3099519
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt helped after she fell victim to an investment 
scam.
Mrs T is represented by her husband, but Ill refer to Mrs T throughout as she is the 
complainant.   
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Fs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I dont 
need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mrs T authorised two card payments of £5,000 each on 19 October 2017;
She did so on the premise that she was investing money with a legitimate investment 
firm;
The firm was in fact fraudulent, and scammers had created a sophisticated deception 
to lure victims in and steal their money. The scam included the sending of a detailed 
prospectus, the requirement of anti-money laundering checks, a sophisticated and 
interactive website, and regular contact with employees;
Mrs S didnt realise shed been scammed for more than two years, with the website 
having been maintained and the firm having been allegedly taken over in that time. 
She was alerted to the scam when she couldnt withdraw funds and when she 
discovered of negative reviews online;
Santander looked into what had happened when Mrs T reported the scam but said it 
couldnt help. In summary, it said:
othe transactions were authorised and so there was little it could do;
oas card payments were made, the same considerations as an authorised 
push payment (APP) scam were not applicable;
othe fraud had been brought to the banks attention too late to be able to carry 
out any further action.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. In 
doing so he recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said the bank ought to refund 
the second payment made using Mrs Ts debit card. His view, in summary, stated that:
both transactions were no doubt authorised and there was no disagreement between 
parities on that point;
he considered Santander had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, to follow 
good industry practice and take steps to keep the customers accounts safe, as well 
as other obligations. And in considering whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, Ill also need to review Santanders actions to 
understand whether it couldve done anything else during to prevent scam.
in making findings under these considerations, he believed Santander ought to have 
recognised unusual activity on Mrs Ts account and should have stepped in to 
question it;
the second payment represented particularly unusual activity given it was a second 
larger than normal payment (for Mrs T) in quick succession and it was the point at 
which Santander ought to have acted;
if Santander had stepped in to question the payment, used the knowledge and skill it 
had in detecting scams like this, and questioned Mrs T appropriately, the scam would 
have been revealed and the loss of the second £5,000 could have been avoided.
Having made those findings he recommended Santander refund the second payment. He 
also said the bank should pay interest on that refund calculated at 8% simple from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement. 
Mrs T accepted those findings, which were issued in January 2021. The bank hasnt 
responded, despite numerous chasers and requests, and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Santander to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Santanders failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion.
Having considered all of the available evidence and information Im reaching largely the 
same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The payments were no doubt auhtorised, and so as a starting point, under the Payment 
Service Regulations, Mrs T is presumed liable for them. But that is not the end of the story. 
Santander ought to be aware of its duty to monitor accounts so that it can protect its 
customers and meet its AML obligations. That means it should be on the lookout for unusual and suspicious transactions, regardless of payment channel used. Card payments should be 
monitored along with APP transactions and other forms of payment.
Im persuaded, like the investigator, that the second payment represented sufficiently 
unusual activity that the bank ought to have acted. And Im also persuaded intervention 
would have made a difference, given what the bank ought to have known about investment 
scams at the time. The loss could have been avoided if Santander had acted, as it ought to 
have done, and so its fair and reasonable that the bank now reimburse Mrs T.
Mrs T was a relative layman and an innocent victim of a well-executed scam. And so I dont 
find that theres reason to say that the monetary award should be reduced in any way. 
Putting things right
Santander should now compensate Mrs T for the scam loss related to the second 
transaction. That means it should pay her £5,000. It should also add interest at the rate of 
8% simple per year, from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Further, Santander should pay Mrs T compensation of £250 for its lack of response to our 
investigators findings and the significant delay this has caused to the resolution to the 
complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman