DRN-2627176
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with and handled a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy for damage to his roof. Hes also 
unhappy with the service he received.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 7 January 2021  a copy of which is set out here. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr S complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr S holds a buildings and contents home insurance policy with Admiral, which includes 
cover for accidental damage. When his policy was incepted a copy of the policy terms 
and schedule were made available to him.
On 31 July 2019 Mr S noticed water ingress from the roof of his bungalow, which was 
following a weekend of bad weather. He said his roof was damaged and internal damage 
was caused within his home. In particular, he stated electrical units in his utility room were 
affected and some of the electrics within that part of his property were damaged.
Mr S contacted Admiral to make a claim under his policy. It appointed a surveyor, (C), to 
attend Mr S property in order to determine the cause of damage to his roof.
On 8 August 2019 C inspected Mr S roof and told Admiral there was no evidence of 
visible storm damage or damage caused as a result of a one-off event as was required by 
his policy. Admiral therefore repudiated Mr S claim for roof damage and it also declined 
to cover the cost of repairing internal damage to his property.
Mr S subsequently paid for a new roof, which cost him around £4000. He also incurred 
costs in repairing the internal damage within his property. He was unhappy hed had to 
cover these costs himself. And he wasnt happy that he hadnt been given a copy of Cs 
report. As, he felt Admiral had dealt with his claim unfairly, he complained.
When Admiral responded to Mr S complaint it reconsidered his claim for internal damage 
within his property and approved it. It agreed heavy rainfall could have caused the 
internal damage and explained that Mr S policy covered accidental damage within his 
home.
Admiral paid Mr S a total of £320 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset hed 
been caused while his internal damage claim was declined. And it assisted him in 
obtaining a copy of Cs report. But it wouldnt agree to cover the cost of repairing Mr S 
roof as it said there was no evidence of storm related damage.
Mr S wasnt happy with Admirals response to his complaint. He said it had accepted 
there had been a storm on the relevant date and he wanted it to reimburse him for the 
costs hed incurred in repairing roof. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and their initial view was that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S responded by stating hed cracked some roof tiles in 
around October 2018 when he installed pipes for an air conditioning unit, which he 
thought might have caused the water ingress he experienced in July 2019.
After our investigator reviewed Mr S comments they recommended upholding his 
complaint as they were persuaded his roof claim should be met under the accidental 
damage section of his policy. While Mr S accepted our investigators view of his complaint 
Admiral disagreed. So, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im departing from what our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Mr S has sent our investigator some very detailed submissions about his complaint. I 
want to assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Admiral have 
said when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr S has raised as 
Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr S wont take that as a 
discourtesy. My approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is 
here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
My role is to assess whether I think Admiral made a mistake, or treated Mr S unfairly, in 
how it decided to repudiate the claim he brought for repairs to his bungalow roof. And in 
reaching a decision about this Ive considered everything Mr S and Admiral have said, Cs 
opinion on the cause of damage and photographs taken of the roof.
Mr S would like Admiral to reimburse the costs he incurred in repairing his roof because 
he believes it was caused by adverse weather. His policy with Admiral provides cover for 
damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events 
and include storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, Mr S would have to 
show that the damage hes claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in his 
policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr S complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr S policy defines the word storm to be 
a specific, identified storm including strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54mph) that may 
include heavy rain, snow or sleet.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Mr S said he noticed water ingress on 
31 July 2019. Like our investigator, Ive considered weather reports relevant to Mr S 
locality for storm conditions from 24 to 31 July 2019. During that period the highest rainfall 
recorded was on 28 July 2019, which was 41 mm per hour. However, the highest wind 
speed recorded was 24 mph, which was on 25 July 2019. Heavy rainfall alone doesnt 
meet Admirals policy definition of a storm. And I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that there was enough wind to cause damage to a roof.
I know Mr S will feel disappointed by this decision, but I havent seen any evidence of 
storm displacement or damage to the roof. And, as there are no wind speeds recorded 
within the period Ive checked which meet Admirals definition of a storm, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date that Mr S 
observed water ingress. This means Im unable to answer question one affirmatively. And 
so, I cant fairly conclude that Mr S roof was damaged by a one-off identifiable storm 
event as his policy requires. I therefore cant fairly direct Admiral to reimburse him for the 
costs he incurred in repairing his roof.
Admiral has provided evidence showing that C assessed Mr S flat and pitched roof via a 
pole camera inspection and attributed the cause of any water ingress to an inherent 
defect to the roof covering. Im persuaded that the photographs Ive seen support Cs 
opinion.
Mr S hasnt provided an independent opinion to rebut Cs opinion. But I can see he told 
our investigator he caused damage to his roof in around October 2018 when he fitted 
pipe work for an air conditioning unit, which led to cracks in some of the tiles. He 
therefore believes that his roof claim should therefore be met under the accidental 
damage section of his policy.
I understand the point Mr S is making here. But he hasnt persuaded me that he caused 
damage to his roof in around October 2018. There are no photographs showing cracked 
tiles. And I think if Mr S had caused damage, as he claims, hed have experienced water 
ingress well before July 2019  particularly because since October 2018 there have been 
6 instances of substantial rainfall. I therefore think its more likely than not that the cause 
of the water ingress was a defective roof covering as C has suggested.
Having carefully considered Mr S policy I can see defective roof coverings are specifically 
excluded, which is in common with most home insurance policies. This is because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen, and something wearing out or requiring 
maintenance isnt unforeseen.
Mr S appears to believe that because Admiral agreed to cover the internal damage within 
his property it should also accept liability for damage to his roof. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen Admiral agreed to cover internal damage due to the heavy rainfall Mr 
S experienced prior to reporting his claim on 31 July 2019. And, as Ive already explained, 
heavy rainfall alone doesnt meet the policy definition of a storm. I therefore cant fairly 
conclude that Admiral has acted unreasonably here.
I understand that Mr S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and 
Ive carefully considered everything hes said. But based on what Ive seen I think Admiral 
acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr S claim.So, for the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that Im not minded to 
uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last 
word on the matter.
Admiral acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it had no 
additional information it wished me to consider. 
Mr S responded that he was disappointed with my provisional decision. He stated he was 
unhappy with the nature of the inspections C undertook of his roof. He also questioned 
why his complaint has been considered under the storm peril part of his policy as he 
believes the damage was caused accidentally during October 2018 when he walked on 
his roof in order to run pipe work for his air conditioning over the pitched roof. Mr S stated 
he must have damaged his roof during that process and felt my decision didnt give 
sufficient weight to this. He also outlined reasons why he felt his claim should be met by 
the accidental damage clause of his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S feels my provisional decision is unfair. I want to assure him that, in 
considering his complaint, Ive thought very carefully about what happened here and Im 
satisfied my decision is fair to both him and Admiral  as it should be.
Ill deal first with Mr S comments about the adequacy of Cs inspection. Its clear he feels 
it was deficient and cursory. Admiral has provided our service with evidence showing that 
C assessed Mr S flat and pitched roof via a pole camera inspection. And it said, from that 
inspection, C was able to attribute the cause of any water ingress to an inherent defect to 
the roof covering. 
Here, C provided a detailed report to Admiral, which I considered in reaching a decision 
about this complaint. The content of Cs report satisfies me that it undertook an 
appropriate inspection. I say this because the report it produced is similar in detail and 
length to those seen by our service in similar claims. And it contains the information Id 
expect to see. 
It isnt unusual for insurance appointed surveyors to undertake a pole camera inspection. 
And, where one can be undertaken, I wouldnt expect a surveyor to go onto the roof to 
make a further assessment of what can already be seen in photographs. Im satisfied the 
photographs C took are sufficiently clear to have enabled it to assess the cause of any 
damage to Mr S roof. And they support the opinion C provided in its report.  
 
Mr S has questioned why his complaint was considered under the storm peril part of his 
policy. As I explained in my provisional decision, this was how Admiral assessed his 
claim. And I think this was reasonable bearing in mind Mr S had informed Admiral that 
hed noticed water ingress from his roof following a weekend of adverse weather. I 
therefore dont think Admiral made an error in setting his claim up as a storm claim.
When I considered whether Admiral had fairly assessed Mr S claim for storm damage I 
adopted a three stage test. The test I applied is the approach typically taken by this 
service when it deals with storm damage complaints.When I considered the weather recorded from 24 to 31 July 2019 I was unable to see 
evidence of weather that met Admirals policy definition of a storm. The wind speeds 
recorded were insufficient to cause damage to a roof and, thus, the first limb of the storm 
test wasnt satisfied. I remain persuaded that the damage Mr S reported wasnt caused by 
a storm.
Mr S believes his roof claim should be met under the accidental damage section of his 
policy. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded this is how the 
water ingress happened. Ive taken on board Mr S comments about how he thinks the 
damage occurred. But I still think if hed caused damage, as he claims, hed have 
experienced water ingress well before July 2019  particularly because since October 
2018 there have been 6 instances of substantial rainfall. Theres no evidence to suggest 
he did. And I think this all supports Cs opinion that the water ingress was, most likely, 
due to a defective roof covering, which is excluded under the terms of Mr S policy. 
While Im grateful to Mr S for the comments hes provided, he hasnt persuaded me to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. I still dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman