DRN-2092519
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly approved 
his credit card application and that its lending was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S says he applied for the credit card account in 2015 and was given a credit limit of 
£4,000. He says within a few months he had reached that credit limit and at the time of the 
application was in debt with payday loans. Mr S says he struggled with the repayments for 
about 4 years and says Barclaycard ought to have contacted him after a few months of 
opening the account. He would like the interest he has paid refunded and says the lending 
was both irresponsible and unaffordable.
Barclaycard says it carried out appropriate checks on Mr Ss application and says he was 
working at the time with limited expenditure. It says it took into account his loans at the time 
and says there were no problems with the account until 2017 when it agreed a repayment 
plan with Mr S. It also says it acted sympathetically when it became aware of Mr Ss financial 
difficulties and reduced the interest rate and suspended charges. Barclaycard says Mr S has 
repaid the debt.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the application 
and that Mr Ss loans at the time amounted to just over £500. The investigator didnt think it 
reasonable for Barclaycard to monitor Mr Ss spending or contact him when he was making 
contractual repayments. The investigator thought Barclaycard had acted positively and 
sympathetically when made aware of Mr Ss financial difficulties in 2017.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has acted fairly and hasnt 
lent irresponsibly. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
Any lending should be affordable, and a lender ought to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on an application. I can see that Mr S applied for the credit card and 
provided details about his income and expenditure. Im satisfied that Mr S was in 
employment and had limited outgoings and that Barclaycard carried out such reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Mr Ss financial position. Im also satisfied that it did consider 
Mr Ss existing loans, but I can see that they amounted to just over £500. So, I dont think 
those loans meant that the credit card account was unaffordable. And I can see that 
Barclaycard says there was no adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file. Mr S has 
not provided a copy of his credit file and so I have no reason to doubt what Barclaycard says 
about it.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and can see that for nearly two years Mr S made 
regular monthly repayments and there were no issues with the account. I think on balance 
that provides additional evidence for the fact that at the time of Barclaycards lending, it was 
affordable. So, Im satisfied that at the time of the lending it was proportionate and that 
appropriate checks were carried out.
I appreciate that Mr S says Barclaycard ought to have contacted him when he reached the 
credit limit. But Im satisfied that its up to Mr S to decide what he spends his money on. And 
I think he continued to make required repayments, so I dont think there was any need for 
Barclaycard to have contacted him at that time.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. I can see 
that Barclaycard suspended interest and charges when told of such difficulties and agreed 
repayment plans with Mr S at reduced interest rates. So, Im satisfied Barclaycard did act 
positively and sympathetically which meant Mr S was able to repay his borrowing over time 
and at a lower interest rate.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
Mr Ss application and acted appropriately when made aware of his financial difficulties. For 
those reasons I cant fairly order Barclaycard to refund any interest which I think was applied 
in line with account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman