DRN-3885848
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc added a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
NatWest said that it received a report that credits of £1,680 paid into Mr As account on 23 
January 2017 were fraudulent. It wasnt satisfied with his explanation, that it was repayment 
of a gambling debt from a friend, and it closed his account and registered a CIFAS marker. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that CIFAS set the 
requirements for a marker and NatWest had given Mr A the opportunity to explain what 
happened at the time. It had given him notice of the closure of the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. She thought Mr A could have done more at the time to mitigate things 
when his account had been blocked and closed. It seemed that the marker would have been 
removed by now after it had been in place for six years.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. These credits were from a 
person he knew and were a sum of money owed. And that person had made multiple 
payments that day thinking it was funny. He said that these sort of payments into his account 
werent unusual and he thinks hed received money from this person before. The marker has 
affected his ability to obtain credit and his credit score.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Ive seen that this money which came in a number of payments was reported as having been 
fraudulently obtained. When Mr A submitted his complaint form to this service he only 
referred to the smaller payments being related to him being paid for lent coins. When our 
investigator provided him with a copy of his statement showing the larger payments including 
one for £1,380 that day he said that this related to money hed lent to his friend for gambling. 
He says he attended the branch at the time with that friend to discuss this and he says that 
the account the money was sent from wasnt closed. Since our investigators view a person 
who says he was the sender of the money at the time has emailed this service stating that 
he sent Mr A money in separate parts to annoy him because Mr A had kept asking for it. And 
that he was surprised that Mr As account was closed.
I appreciate the time that has passed since the credits were received. But Mr A had the 
opportunity to present clear evidence to NatWest at the time including of any related loan. I 
note that payments were made out of Mr As account for more than the amount of the credits 
that day. Having taken into account all the evidence Im not persuaded on balance that Mr A 
has shown that he was legitimately entitled to this money.
Mr A says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Given this I also dont find it was unreasonable for it to close his account. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for Mr A who 
says hes been affected by this marker over the past six years when making applications to 
financial businesses.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman