DRN-1419863
 
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998 at the same time as Mr D 
applied for a credit card account. The bank cant confirm where the policy was sold, Mr D 
recalls it was in a meeting at one of the banks branches. The bank has agreed the sale 
should be reviewed on that basis. The policy gave Mr D protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely 
given the available evidence and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. 
Lloyds cant confirm the exact price of Mr Ds policy but it has given a range (from £0.59 to 
£0.79 per £100 of outstanding balance) and I have used the higher cost for my analysis.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D says he was told he had to take PPI. The bank disputes this. I cant know what was 
said in the meeting and there isnt much information to go on in this case, because 
everything happened so long ago. Lloyds doesnt have Mr Ds application form any more but 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable as the sale was over 20 years ago. 
From what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards at this time, I think its likely 
Lloyds wouldve made Mr D aware he had a choice about PPI. The sample of the application 
form hes likely to have used shows he would have needed to tick a box to take out PPI. And 
the option to decline PPI would have been set out with equal prominence. Theres nothing 
on the form that I think could reasonably have led him to believe it was mandatory.
I have taken into account Mr Ds comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence 
showing the bank didnt make clear PPI was optional, I cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold the 
PPI to Mr D without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to take it. 
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D. This means Lloyds had to make sure it 
was right for him. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr D was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months for all successful 
accident, sickness and unemployment claims. 
Mr D responded to the adjudicators opinion setting out his wifes circumstances and asking 
that I consider those. But thats not suitable alternative protection. Her ability to help with his 
repayments wasnt guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. The credit 
agreement was in his name, so he was solely liable for the debt. So, overall, I think the PPI 
wouldve been useful to Mr D if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And, given the likely cost of the policy, the PPI wouldve been competitively 
priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr D was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances at the time and the policys terms and conditions. So I think it unlikely Mr D 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, 
I think he would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr D has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman