DRN-3972263
The complaint
Mr K complains about account restrictions applied by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr K opened a current account with Barclays in June 2022 and used it to receive salary 
payments. On 25 October 2022 Mr Ks salary was credited to the account but Barclays 
placed a hold on it and didnt make it available for spending. Mr K has explained he was 
travelling abroad at the time. Mr K called Barclays and was advised the payment was being 
reviewed. 
Mr K spoke with Barclays again on 26 October 2022 while the review was ongoing. A 
complaint was raised on Mr Ks behalf. In addition, Barclays requested information from Mr K 
about the payment that was being made to his account. Mr K went on to supply the 
supporting information Barclays requested and regularly contacted it to chase the progress 
of its review. 
The payment was released by Barclays on 3 November 2022. Barclays issued a final 
response to Mr K the following day. Barclays said the payment was held while it confirmed 
the source of the funds and that it had up to 15 working days to complete the process. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint but thought Barclays had dealt with 
it fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr K asked to appeal, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand that the salary payment Mr K received was entirely genuine and that he was 
expecting to have access to the funds in order to make regular payments. And Mr K has told 
us his experience was made harder as he was travelling at the time which meant he had to 
borrow money from friends and was caused a reasonable level of embarrassment. I dont 
doubt what Mr K has told us about how the issues raised impacted him. But I have to 
balance that against what Barclays has told us and its obligation to protect customer 
accounts. 
Barclays has explained that its terms and conditions allow it to restrict account use in certain 
circumstances while it completes a review. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and can 
confirm they do say Barclays can limit account use for various reasons while it reviews a 
particular transaction. Here Barclays has confirmed Mr Ks salary payment was picked up by 
its systems on 25 October 2022 for additional checks to be carried out. The payment was 
placed on hold while it was reviewed by Barclays and evidence to show the source of the 
funds was requested. 
Mr K quickly complied with the information Barclays requested and a payslip and letter from 
his employer confirming the salary payment were provided. The account was reviewed by 
Barclays and the payment hold was removed on 3 November 2022, eight days after it was 
first picked up for checks. I understand the situation caused Mr K some inconvenience but I 
havent been persuaded that Barclays acted unfairly in its approach or unreasonably delayed 
the review process. 
 
Weve been given phone bills from Mr K that shows his contact with Barclays. And I can see 
Mr K did incur call costs as a result of being abroad. But Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
tell Barclays to refund those costs. Whilst I accept Mr K was abroad at the time, that doesnt 
change the requirement on Barclays to monitor and protect accounts. And, as Ive noted 
above, Im satisfied Barclays was acting in line with the account terms and condition when it 
placed a payment hold on Mr Ks salary to complete a review. Whilst I accept the process 
did cause Mr K some inconvenience, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and in line with the 
account terms and conditions. As Im satisfied Barclays dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman