DRN-3114796
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her claim 
on a pet insurance policy following a routine operation.
What happened
Mrs H took out a pet insurance policy where Red Sands is the underwriter. Her pet had a 
routine castration operation but a week later fell ill and needed emergency veterinary 
treatment. Mrs H said the earlier operation had been successful and the vet had confirmed it 
had nothing to do with the subsequent kidney failure. 
Mrs H said shed had to pay over £2500 in vet bills and had other bills to settle. Mrs H said 
shes still waiting for her pet insurance to cover the costs and she wants Red Sands to meet 
her claim.
Red Sands said the vets notes showed no issues with the pets kidneys before the 
castration operation. And it felt the notes pointed to the castration as a potential cause of the 
acute kidney injury. The policy document confirmed that castration, and any claim resulting 
from the procedure, wasnt covered. And it felt the claim had been correctly declined. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Red Sands response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked carefully at the veterinary reports and various 
communications. And he didnt feel the information showed a clear link between the 
castration and the kidney injury. 
Our investigator looked at Red Sands response. Although the kidney injury occurred after 
the castration, the reports didnt state itd happened as a direct result of the castration. So he 
wasnt satisfied the claim had been declined corrected. And our investigator felt the claim 
should be upheld.
Red Sands didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. It said the clinical history showed within two or three days of a routine castration 
the pet was having problems with drinking and urination, anorexia and lethargy. And it 
believed the kidney issues were related to the castration surgery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the upset Mrs H has been through. Ive looked carefully at everything 
Mrs H and Red Sands have said to see if the insurer has done anything wrong, and if so, 
what it needs to do to put things right.
Red Sands initially declined the claim as it felt the cause of the kidney injury was a pre-
existing condition. After that was ruled out it said the kidney injury had been caused by the 
castration operation. 
And Red Sands declined the claim as the pet insurance policy excluded any costs for 
castration or as a result of the procedure.
Ive looked at the notes provided by the vet and surgery involved in the pets care. A few 
days after the pet was castrated, the notes show the animal was drinking more than usual. 
The symptoms continued and the pet was diagnosed with acute renal injury. Further 
treatment was then provided.
Red Sands say that the report and reassessment both reference that the pet was castrated a 
few days before presenting with the renal injury symptoms. And it feels the clinical notes 
show the injury was the result of the castration procedure. As claims resulting from elective 
surgeries such as castration are excluded from cover under the pet insurance policy, Red 
Sands feels it has acted correctly in declining the claim.
But I dont think Red Sands has treated Mrs H fairly here. The information provided by the 
vet states, after performing blood tests, that the kidney disease is of unknown origin. The 
notes from the surgery also indicate an unknown cause of kidney failure and neither report 
makes any connection with the previous castration operation. 
The vets report says the pet had undergone the operation a week earlier. And two or three 
days after the operation the animal had shown signs of above-average drinking and urine 
discharge, anorexia and lethargy. 
But there is nothing in the report to suggest the renal injury had been caused by the earlier 
castration operation. The vet simply reported the pet had been hospitalised for ongoing 
management of acute kidney injury, which had become apparent a few days after a routine 
castration operation.
Based on everything Ive seen I dont think theres enough evidence to show the castration 
operation was the most likely cause of the kidney injury. There is nothing in the veterinary 
reports to suggest a link between the two. And just because one followed the other, I dont 
think it is fair for Red Sands to draw the conclusion that the kidney treatment was a direct 
result of the castration. 
There are a number of possible reasons for kidney injury and I dont think Red Sands has 
shown the castration operation was the most likely cause. It follows that I dont think Red 
Sands has acted fairly by declining Mrs Hs claim based on the exclusion relating to 
castration.
Putting things right
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should meet Mrs Hs claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman