DRN-1548944
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement amount offered by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral), following a total loss claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was unfortunately involved in an accident in June 2019. Admiral accepted the claim 
and deemed his car a total loss. So it offered to pay him the market value for his car under 
the policy. It initially offered Mr C £12,150 but later increased the amount to £13,524. Mr Cs 
excess was £1,100. 
Mr C was unhappy about the settlement figure Admiral offered to pay him. He said he looked 
at online second-hand car sales websites and didnt agree he would be able replace his car 
with the amount it offered. 
Mr C said he had found similar cars that ranged between £15,000 and £17,000. He felt that 
Admiral should increase its offer to enable him to replace his car with a like-for-like on the 
market. He said his car was well-maintained and had several extras that other similar cars 
on the online websites he looked at didnt have. 
Admiral considered what Mr C had said, but maintained its offer was fair and reasonable. So 
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said he felt Admiral had reached a fair settlement by following the relevant motor trade 
guides and so he didnt think it needed to do anything else. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He remained that he wouldnt be able to replace 
his car with a like-for-like model with the settlement amount offered. He also asked whether 
Admiral were able to replace his car, rather than offer him a cash settlement. But our 
investigator explained that the policy entitled Admiral to make a cash settlement. 
Mr C said he didnt think it was fair our investigator had discounted one of the guides. He 
also said he was concerned that the time taken to investigate the complaint meant that the 
value of his car may have been affected. An investigator spoke to Mr C and told him that the 
guides are able to give a value based on the date of loss, rather than the date the search on 
the guides are carried out. 
As a resolution could not be met, the case was passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The policy terms state that if Mr Cs car is deemed beyond repair it will pay him a cash 
amount that represents no more than the market value of his car at the time of loss. 
Assessing the market value of a car isnt an exact science. I have carefully considered the 
adverts Mr C has provided as part of my review to establish what a fair market value for his 
car is. But I must explain that it is not our role to value cars  we look at whether Admiral has 
offered Mr C a fair settlement to represent the market value of his car at the time of loss. 
I generally find that the motor valuation guides are the most persuasive tool when assessing 
whether an insurer has provided a fair market value. This is because the motor trade guides 
 rather than online car advertisements  are based on extensive nationwide research of 
most likely selling prices rather than advertised asking prices with leverage for negotiation. 
Admiral considered the motor trade guides and gave its final offer of £13,524 to Mr C. 
Admiral said this reflected the highest value of the three guides it used. The other two guides 
used gave a price of £12,150 and £12,785. 
Our investigator used the same starting point to determine whether a fair market value had 
been offered by Admiral. He found valuations of £12,150, £12,250 and £17,440. 
Where one guide is considerably out of line  whether its higher or lower than the insurers 
offer  with the other two, we think its fair that the insurer disregards the one that is out of 
line. I think its reasonable here to disregard the valuation of £17,440 because thats 
considerably out of line with the other values given from the other trade guides. Admiral has 
offered Mr C the next highest value given from the guides that are relatively in line with the 
others. 
Whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mr C, I think Admirals offer is fair and reasonable, and 
it has followed the industry-wide method that our service expects it to follow. I appreciate Mr 
Cs frustration given hes provided us with online advertisements that show higher asking 
prices for similar cars than what Admiral offered him.  But Im more persuaded that the 
guides give a more accurate reflection of the market value of his car at the time of loss. So I 
wont be asking Admiral to do anything else because I dont think its fair for me to require it 
to pay him the asking price of a similar car from an online website. As above, online 
websites allow a margin of negotiation. 
Mr C has also told us his car held a personal value, and had a number of various optional 
extras which makes his car of a higher specification to others currently on the market he 
found. He also said he kept his car very well maintained which I dont doubt. But these 
optional extras dont always increase the market value of a car and are taken into account 
on the guides. And it is a car owners responsibility to keep their car fully maintained and in 
roadworthy condition. And this wouldnt generally affect the market value of a car, and would 
also be taken account of by the guides.
So for the reasons set out above, I think Admirals offer of £13,524 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, and so I wont require it to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Liam HickeyOmbudsman