DRN-3204379
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) gave misleading 
information about their Estate Planning Service (EPS) and failed in their governance of the 
EPS.
 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr J invested £125,000 with Oxford Capitals EPS, following advice from his 
independent financial adviser (IFA). The EPS was a discretionary management service likely 
to provide business property relief, enabling investors to claim inheritance tax relief after two 
years.
Mr J invested into Option 3 for growth and return, investing in shares in a third-party holding 
company. Those acting on behalf of Mr J say that the recommendation to invest followed a 
meeting between the IFA and Oxford Capital in early July, in which Oxford Capital said that 
the EPS was ahead of target returns. The applicable investment memorandum (IM), dated 
January 2018, explained, amongst other things, that:
OCEPS holding companies either directly own and operate assets capable of generating a 
profitable cash return. Other companies are loan providers, earning revenues from interest 
payments on loans secured against assets owned and operated by a third party.
The underlying assets included investment in the energy sector and property construction.
In February 2019, Oxford Capital suspended the EPS in response to a problem with a plant 
for which the holding company had provided construction finance. Oxford Capital wrote to  
Mr J in April and May 2019, stating that work was still being undertaken to value the shares 
in the EPS. In or around January 2020, the EPS was transferred to a new investment 
manager. That provider valued the portfolio at £59,142.38 in March 2020, by which time     
Mr Js investment had more than halved in value.
Through his representative, Mr J complains that:
1. Oxford Capital misled Mr J and his adviser, in failing to provide information about 
suspension of the operation of the energy plant before he invested;
2. Oxford Capital gave an incentive to invest and emphasised the urgency of investing, 
thereby pressurising Mr J;
3. Oxford Capital invested more than 10% of the total loans through the EPS in a single 
endeavour, facilitating over £16.7 million one project, thereby exposing Mr J to more 
risk. Mr Js representative says loans should have been limited to £3 million and no 
more than 10% of the total loan book value should have been associated to a single 
project;
4. Oxford Capital breached the investment discretionary mandate in failing to focus on 
capital preservation;
5. Failed to generate returns of between 3% to 5%;
6. Manipulated communications and failed to present viable long-term proposition.
To put things right, Mr J seeks return of his initial, gross investment.
Oxford Capital say:
EPS made several secured loans to energy firms, in line with the mandate;
Discounted fees were offered at the time Mr J invested and this was permitted under 
the FCA guidelines. The particular offer was in place for around six month and there 
was no urgency to invest;
At the meeting in early July between Oxford Capital and Mr Js IFA, information was 
shared about the EPS portfolios covering three investment holding companies. At 
that time all (save for one) were performing ahead of target. Oxford Capital deny that 
any guarantees were made about performance but accept it is possible that an 
expression of confidence in continued good performance of the portfolio was made;
Mr Js IFA made the recommendation to invest in one of the holding companies;
The Investment Management Agreement set out the parameters of investment and 
set out high risk warnings;
Investments with the significant potential benefits of business relief-qualifying 
investments are required to have significant levels of risk;
No guarantees were given about the target return;
There was no limit on the amount EPS companies could invest in a single endeavour 
in the IM. The longer-term aim was to decrease exposure in any single investment to 
under 10%;
Further, there was no limit on the loans amounts in the IM;
Whilst there had been an issue with a plant operating company, which was in receipt 
of loans from EPS (to finance construction), as at July 2018 it was anticipated that 
any remediation works were covered under a warranty and a parent guarantee was 
in place. By October 2018, it became clear that the plant would be offline for longer 
and value of the asset was reduced. Oxford Capital advised investors of this at the 
time. It wasnt until February 2019 that it became clear the remedial works would not 
be undertaken as anticipated and at that point Oxford Capital suspended the fund as 
financing was judged to be impaired;
At the time of suspension, the loan represented only 14.5% of the investments held 
by the holding company in which Mr J had invested;
The solar and property construction investment fared well but and anaerobic 
digestion and reserve power investments underperformed due to a series of factors 
outside Oxford Capitals control, namely a change in legislation and regulations 
governing the energy sector, a reduction in wholesale energy prices, market 
saturation and operating difficulties;
It was unfortunate that many of the risks highlighted in the IM materialised;Management of the EPS transferred to a third party with effect from 31 January 2020. 
Oxford Capital had no involvement in assessing indicative valuations after this time.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Oxford Capital hadnt done anything 
wrong. There were no meeting notes from the time to show that false statements were made 
at the meeting in July 2018. Having reviewed the IM, our investigator thought that the 
investment strategy was explained along with the inherent high risk with this type of 
investment. The companies invested in and the strategies deployed, were in line with the 
information given in the IM and Oxford Capital explained the investment structure. Despite 
Mr Js adviser referring to limits or loans, there were no restrictions within the IM.
As to disclosure around the energy plant, our investigator thought that Oxford Capital were 
unaware that remedial works would not be covered the warranty until after Mr J had 
invested. It wasnt until October 2018 that the extent of damage was known, at which point 
investors were advised that the equity value had reduced. 
Our investigator had no information about an incentive and there was nothing to show that a 
timescale with a sense of urgency was being promoted.
Mr J, through his representative, disagrees with the view. It is said on his behalf that it is 
unfair not to accept that reassurances were made at the 2018 meeting, our investigator had 
not reached the right outcome on the investment mandate, high gearing was taken by 
Oxford Capital and the investment should have been liquidated once 5% concentration was 
reached. The representative again said Oxford Capital had failed to act line with the limits on 
permissions, excessive risks were taken, there was a failure to facilitate realistically 
anticipated returns and false communications. 
In response our investigator added that the IM did give notice that companies within the 
portfolio may use debt to service their operational needs and that other financing may be 
required to meet those needs. This possibility was set out in the risks section. No evidence 
had been provided of a finding of wrongdoing by the regulator.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its helpful to explain that Mr Js IFA recommended investment into the 
EPS. To be clear this decision does not consider whether that recommendation was suitable 
for Mr Js attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint 
about suitability of the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. The 
investment agreement, signed by Mr J, expressly stated that Oxford Capital were not 
responsible for the suitability of the investment as against Mr Js needs.
Having read all the information provided, I hope Mr J wont take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is 
whether Oxford Capital provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the EPS 
and whether it was managed in line with the mandate during the period that Oxford Capital 
was responsible for managing the EPS.
IncentiveI havent seen any evidence that an incentive was offered to Mr J at the time he invested but 
Oxford Capital accepts that it did offer a fee discount at the time and that offer had been 
open to investors for around six months. In my view, discount offers are a legitimate, 
competitive marketing tool, which Oxford Capital were permitted to use. Mr J and his 
representative havent pointed to anything to show that inappropriate time pressure was 
applied or that any complaint about pressure was raised at the time. 
Meeting July 2018
It is agreed that a meeting took place in early July between Mr Js IFA and Oxford Capital. 
On balance, I prefer Oxford Capitals assertion that the meeting was not specific to Mr Js 
potential investment but was a meet the manager meeting, at which all three holding 
companies were discussed. Despite the assertions made on behalf of Mr J, there is nothing 
from the adviser to show that the meeting was a due diligence exercise. Neither party have 
provided contemporaneous notes of what was discussed at the meeting, so Ive made my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Im also mindful 
that memories can fade with time and these events took place almost four years ago. 
Oxford Capital have confirmed that at the time of the meeting the majority of investments 
were performing above target and theyve provided documents to support this. They accept 
that at this time confidence in the EPS was strong. Ive balanced this against the nature of 
these high-risk investments and the repeated risk warnings within the IM which was also 
available at the time. So, whilst I think it is likely that Oxford Capital broadly discussed past 
performance and their future expectations, I dont think its likely that any guarantees around 
future performance and returns were made. Its also important to note that Mr J signed the 
investment agreement on 5 June 2018 and both parties record that the subscription was 
made that month. So, theres also nothing to show that a meeting in July influenced Mr Js 
decision to invest.
Investment parameters, returns and risk
Mr Js representative has said that Oxford Capital exceeded the limits for investment in a 
single endeavour and the amount lent exceeded the limits set. Further it is said that Oxford 
Capital failed in its governance of the EPS because it failed to manage the EPS in line with 
capital preservation and failed to achieve the returns.
Ive reviewed both the IM and the due diligence pack for Q4 of 2017 (which was only sent to 
advisers and expressly stated that the risks were set out in the IM which should be read 
before any decisions were made). No restrictions were placed on the amount that any 
underlying holding company could lend and no restrictions applied as to the amount to be 
invested within a single investment. No evidence has been provided from Mr J or on his 
behalf to show that he was told any such limits applied. I have seen that information was 
later provided in reports about the average value of loans at the time of the reports, so it may 
be that there has been confusion on the part of the representative.
Ive also considered the investment strategy held out by Oxford Capital. The IM explained 
that the subscription would be invested in shares, which should qualify for business property 
relief. The IM and due diligence pack from Q4 sent to Mr Js adviser also explained that 
investors could select investment options to meet their objectives. Five different options were 
presented with an explanation as to each. Ive not seen anything to show that the options 
presented were misleading. 
Mr J invested for growth, which had the highest target aiming to achieve a return of 5% p.a. 
over the medium to long-term. No guarantee was given and this was expressly stated under 
the risk to capital section that said, We may not achieve our targeted returns. The value of your investment may go down as well as up and is not guaranteed. Companies invested in 
through Oxford Capital EPS may fail . .  The risk section also expressly stated in bold that, 
investments in unquoted securities can be more risky than investments in quoted securities 
or shares. Unquoted securities can also be difficult to value and difficult to sell.
The IM stated that subscriptions would be invested in one or more unquoted holding 
companies. Mr Js subscription was invested in one holding company in line with the option 
set out in the IM.  
The IM went on to explain that Oxford Capital would be appointed as the discretionary 
investment manager, which meant they would select the investments on Mr Js behalf. By 
investing in a holding company, Mr J would acquire an interest in all of the existing and 
future subsidiaries. Progressive diversification was anticipated over time, but the two forms 
of investment were, companies directly own and operate assets capable of generating a 
profitable cash return or companies are loan providers, earning revenues from interest 
payments on loans secured against assets owned and operated by a third party. Oxford 
Capital gave examples of current investment to be in energy providers and property 
construction.
I havent seen anything that shows the holding company invested outside the typical 
activities of the holding companies listed above. Ive seen that it invested in the property and 
the energy sector. The construction loan in respect of the energy plant was within this scope. 
The IM also explained that the companies might use loans provided by third parties. It 
expressly warned of the additional risks if the company failed to meet its debts such as the 
reduction in value or the entering into administration, which in turn could reduce the overall 
value of an investment. So, whilst Mr Js representative has complained that the assets were 
leveraged, Im satisfied, on balance, that the possibility of third-party debt and potential 
resulting increase in risk had been explained.
The risk section also highlighted a number of other risks, including the potential for changes 
in legislation which might reduce tax benefits or make underlying investments more difficult 
to sell. Further, the section addressed the risk of government subsidies and initiatives being 
revised or withdrawn. Also, that underlying investments could be in the same or similar 
industry sections which would increase the level of investment risk.
On balance, I am satisfied from the information provided that Oxford Capital provided clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the investment and I think the risks were fairly 
highlighted. Im not persuaded that Mr J has shown otherwise. Im satisfied that Oxford 
Capital made a distinction between investment strategy with a target return and the inherent 
high-risk nature of this investment. And as Ive said whether this level of risk and this 
particular investment was suitable for Mr Js needs, isnt something Im considering within 
this decision.
Its unfortunate that a number of the risk factors identified in the IM materialised which 
resulted in underperformance of the holding company, but it doesnt follow that Oxford 
Capital did anything wrong. The changes to legislation and falling energy prices were 
matters outside their control as were the events with the construction loan.
Information about the energy plant
First, I think its important to put into context that the loan formed part of the investments held 
by the holding company. At the time the fund was suspended the loan represented 14.5% of 
the investments made by the company Mr J held shares in. The failure of the loan was one 
of several factors, which led to underperformance. Im also mindful that it isnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment with benefit of hindsight, so Ive considered the 
information available at the time Mr J invested.
On balance, on the basis of the information provided by the parties, I think it is more likely 
than not that Oxford Capital reasonably believed the plant would only be shut temporarily at 
the time Mr J invested and that any remedial works were covered under a warranty. At that 
time, it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that any interest payments due, would be repaid 
once the plant became operational. It was only after Mr Js investment was made that the 
extent of the problems became clearer. So, on balance, I dont think Mr J was misled at the 
time he invested. And even if this matter had come to light before Mr J invested, as Oxford 
Capital took the view that the loan remained secure, I cant fairly say now that Mr J would 
have acted differently.
Once Oxford Capital became aware of the extent of the problem, they relayed information 
about the revaluation of the asset in early 2019. The subsequent failure of the guarantee 
was a matter outside Oxford Capitals control and it was for them to take such steps as 
seemed fit as discretionary manager. Suspending the EPS wasnt outside the range of 
reasonable responses and it was open Oxford Capital to exercise their commercial judgment 
as they saw fit.
I dont underestimate Mr Js strength of feeling at sustaining losses and I am sorry to 
disappoint him, but in light of my findings, I am not upholding this complaint, so I wont be 
asking Oxford Capital to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman