DRN-1320395
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a claim against 
his Motor insurance policy as a fault claim for an accident that wasnt his fault.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a car accident after his car hit some black ice on the road. 
Mr S contacted Admiral to make a claim on his motor insurance policy. He explained that the 
reason he had the accident was that the local council had failed to grit the road, so he 
wanted to hold it responsible.
Admiral processed Mr Ss claim. It looked into the councils gritting route, and as the road Mr 
S had the accident on was not on the route it didnt think it would be successful in trying to 
claim against the council.
As Admiral didnt think it would be successful in claiming the cost of the claim back from the 
council it recorded the claim as a fault claim against Mr Ss policy. This has affected his 
premiums and his no claims discount (NCD).
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and thought Admiral had acted fairly so it 
wasnt upheld, and Admiral wasnt asked to do anything. As Mr S didnt agree his complaint 
has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide whos to blame for an accident, as thats the role of the courts. Instead I 
look to see if the insurer (in this case Admiral) made a fair and reasonable decision, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, like most other motor insurance policies, say 
Admiral can take over, defend or settle a claim against his policy as it sees fit. This might 
mean it makes a decision that Mr S disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do so. My role 
is to see that it came to that decision fairly.
Admiral has explained that it considered what Mr S said about the accident, but after 
checking the councils gritting routes it was unlikely to be able to claim its costs back from a 
third party. 
When an insurer is unable to make a recovery of the costs it has incurred as a result of a 
claim the claim is recorded as a fault claim. I can understand Mr Ss frustration over the decision Admiral made not pursuing the council 
for the cost of his claim, especially as he had contacted the council several times about the 
road in question and requested that it be gritted for safety reasons. 
But the council doesnt grit every road, and as Admiral says it would be unlikely to hold the 
council responsible for accidents that happen on roads that it hasnt included on its route. I 
dont think it acted unreasonably by not attempting to recover the cost of the claim from it.
While it is unfortunate that Mr S was involved in an accident, and the claim has been settled 
against his motor insurance policy it is an accurate reflection of th circumstances and I dont 
think Admiral has acted unfairly. So I wont be asking it to do anything to resolve Mr S's 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman