DRN-1692867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that the investment Barclays Bank UK PLC advised them to invest in 
didnt perform as it shouldve done and didnt provide the income that they were told it could 
achieve and that they shouldnt have been charged fees when their investment was losing 
money.
What happened
In 2011 Mr and Mrs A were advised to invest a total of around £1 million into a Gerrard 
Investment Management Limited (GIML) portfolio, managed by Barclays, and four structured 
notes. They also took out a portfolio finance loan for £400,000 that allowed them to purchase 
a property whilst keeping their portfolio at £1 million. They later borrowed a further £20,000 
and invested a further £126,600 into the portfolio over 2016/2017. 
Barclays considered the complaint and provided a final response letter (FRL) in which it said 
that it didnt think Mr and Mrs A shouldve been advised to take out the portfolio finance loan 
and shouldve instead have simply invested £600,000 and purchased the property with their 
remaining £400,000. Barclays also thought that they shouldnt have been invested in the four 
structured notes which wouldve instead have been invested in the GIML portfolio.
Barclays calculated redress on the basis that only £600,000 wouldve been invested 
originally, with £450,000 being invested in low-risk investments and £150,000 invested in no-
risk cash-based investments. It used our normal benchmarks for low-risk and no-risk 
investments and calculated a loss of around £11,000 had been suffered by Mr and Mrs A. It 
also offered £250 for the way it had dealt with the complaint.
Barclays also addressed the specific points raised by Mr and Mrs A about performance, the 
fees and the income of £80,000 to £90,000 they said they had been told was achievable in 
some years. It said that the portfolio didnt perform as the markets did because it isnt a 
market tracker and that the fees were for managing the portfolio and not performance 
related. 
Barclays said there wasnt evidence that Mr and Mrs A were told they could expect a return 
of £80,000 to £90,000 from their overall investment and that the adviser had made clear his 
recommendation was based on an income of £50,000 from the portfolio.
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the redress offered by Barclays. It then recalculated redress 
based on a new set of assumptions which included that they wouldve invested the whole 
£600,000 in low risk investments and taking account of all the amounts withdrawn and paid 
into the portfolio. Its revised calculations showed that Mr and Mrs A had suffered no loss as 
a result of the advice they had received. Its offer was therefore limited to the £250 for the 
way it had dealt with the complaint itself.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He said that as Barclays had accepted it 
had provided unsuitable advice, he didnt need to make any finding on that. But he didnt 
think that it had calculated the redress as it shouldve done. He set out how he thought 
redress should be calculated. 
Barclays responded and explained it had already calculated redress based on the 
investigators methodology and this is how it calculated that they hadnt suffered any loss. 
The investigator then confirmed to Mr and Mrs A that they hadnt suffered any loss as a 
result of the unsuitable advice.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with the investigators opinion that they had suffered no loss as 
a result of the unsuitable advice they had received from Barclays. They referred to the poor 
performance of their portfolio and thought it had done worse than other comparable products 
from different providers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr A discussed the complaint with Barclays, he explained what his concerns were. To 
a large extent these centred on the performance of his portfolio. He has referred again to 
performance in rejecting the investigators opinion that no loss had been suffered. The 
record of the telephone call I have seen records him being particularly unhappy about the 
portfolios performance in relation to the FTSE 100 as he thought his portfolio shouldve 
mirrored what the FTSE 100 was doing. 
Barclays explained in its FRL that the portfolio doesnt simply follow the market and is made 
up of a large number of different assets some of which follow the market and others that do 
the opposite. Mr and Mrs A have not specifically challenged what Barclays has said. But as 
they originally raised an issue about the portfolio not following the FTSE100 and raised the 
issue of performance in response to the investigators opinion I will briefly comment on this.
Performance of itself is not a basis for complaint as Barclays has no control over how 
investment assets perform. Mr and Mrs A have not identified the comparable products they 
say did better than their portfolio so Im unable to make any comparison. But in any event 
the fact that their portfolio may not have performed as well as other comparable products 
isnt evidence Barclays did anything wrong. Those managing investments will not always 
make the same decisions and I wouldnt expect different investments to perform the same 
just because they may be similar.
For the portfolio to have mirrored what was happening in the FTSE 100 the portfolio would 
have to have been invested entirely in equities  more specifically in FTSE 100 companies. 
If this is all they had been invested in the lack of any diversification in their portfolio wouldve 
made it unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A.
Mr A also raised an issue about the charges that he and Mrs A continued to pay when the 
portfolio was losing money. Again, Barclays addressed this in its FRL, and I agree with what 
it said. In short, the charges are for managing the portfolio and that management does not 
come to an end when the portfolio isnt doing as well. So, it is appropriate for charges to be 
paid regardless of what is happening with the portfolio itself.
Mr and Mrs A also suggested that they had been told they could achieve an income of 
£80,000 to £90,000. But whilst I accept that the adviser may have made some reference to 
this being a possibility I think it is unlikely that he said this was something that would be 
achieved and I have seen no evidence that suggests this.
Barclays upheld the complaint because it didnt think that Mr and Mrs A shouldve been 
advised to borrow against the portfolio. I agree with Barclays and I dont think that its necessary for me to make any further findings on this point. Barclays also said that they 
shouldnt have been advised to invest in the structured notes because these carried too 
much risk. Again, I agree with Barclays about this and dont think it is necessary to make 
further findings on this.
If Mr and Mrs A hadnt borrowed against the portfolio initially and hadnt invested in the 
structured notes, they wouldve had around £600,000 to invest into the GIML portfolio, which 
is what Barclays has suggested they wouldve done.
Mr A said that if he and Mrs A hadnt invested in the portfolio he wouldve invested in 
property. Barclays said that it wouldnt have advised him and Mrs A to invest in property as 
this wouldve been too high risk for him. Even if Barclays is wrong Mr As statement that this 
is what he wouldve done isnt enough by itself for me to make a finding he and Mrs A 
wouldve invested in property instead of the portfolio. In the circumstances I think it is more 
likely than not he wouldve invested £600,000 in the GIML portfolio if they had been given 
suitable advice.
Barclays has explained that the calculation it carried out after its FRL, which found there had 
been no loss, is along the same lines as what the investigator set out in his opinion. Namely 
it is based on first calculating the current value of the portfolio less the amount borrowed 
against the portfolio - which it calculated gives a figure of £515,773  and then compared 
this with what wouldve happened if they had invested £600,000 at the outset into a low risk 
portfolio. It used our usual benchmark for low risk investments in carrying out this 
comparison  namely 50% average rate from fixed bonds and 50% the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Total Return Index. 
Barclays has said that in making the comparison it has modelled the additions and 
withdrawals  so the addition of around £126,000 to the portfolio and the deductions of 
£50,000 Mr and Mrs A took each year  as these occurred. The outcome of this comparison 
shows that Mr and Mrs A are around £95,000 better off having invested £1 million including 
the portfolio finance and interest payments on this. In other words, they wouldve been 
worse off if they hadnt taken out the portfolio finance and invested in the structured notes 
and had invested £600,000 at the outset into a low risk portfolio. So, Mr and Mrs A have 
benefitted from Barclays having got things wrong originally based on the redress 
methodology Barclays and the investigator thought was appropriate. 
I note that Barclays originally methodology wasnt based on the full £600,000 being in low 
risk investments and instead was based on £150,000 being in no-risk cash-based 
investments. I have considered if that is more appropriate, but I dont think that it was. Mr 
and Mrs A invested to provide an income and I think there wouldve been less potential 
impact on their capital if they invested all of their money in a risk-based investment from the 
outset. So, I think it is appropriate to calculate redress on the basis that they wouldve 
invested £600,000 in a low risk portfolio.
One final matter that I think it is appropriate to comment on  as the investigator has done so 
- is that in October 2019, after the complaint had been referred to us, Barclays wrote to Mr 
and Mrs A and said it was unable to continue to provide its wealth management and 
investment service to them. It explained this was because it couldnt support clients in non-
UK locations following a restructure even if they were overseas temporarily. It gave them two 
months notice the account would be closed. It also warned that the portfolio finance was 
being revoked the following month.
I agree with the investigator that the decision to stop offering a service to Mr and Mrs A was 
one it was entitled to take in the exercise of its reasonable commercial judgement and that it 
gave reasonable notice of this.I note the offer that Barclays has made of £250 for the way it dealt with the complaint which I 
think it seems to me is reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint but I make no award for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman