DRN-2413075
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about how Fairmead Insurance Limited proposed to settle his claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a water leak in his home that damaged the loft and a bedroom. Fairmead accepted 
the claim. Mr A provided quotes from builders to carry out the repairs. However, Fairmead 
said that Mr As quotes were too high and that it could carry out the work itself for a much 
lower amount. Fairmead told Mr A that to settle the claim it could either do the work itself or 
would pay him a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost Fairmead to do the work.
Mr A complained to Fairmead. He said that he didnt want Fairmead to do the work because 
he didnt think it would do the repairs to a good enough standard given the difference in the 
amount it would cost for the work to be done privately. Fairmead replied and said that it 
thought the quotes provided by Mr A were excessively high and included items that were out 
of the scope of the works to deal with the damage.
Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that Fairmead had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that the way it 
proposed to settle the claim was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A then provided some 
more information. Our investigator then upheld the complaint. He said he thought Mr As 
quotes provided a more realistic market price and that Fairmead should base its cash 
settlement on this.
As Fairmead did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 October 2020. In my provisional decision I explained 
the reasons why I was not intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Fairmead told Mr A that it would either carry out the work to repair the damage to his home 
or pay a cash settlement for the amount that it would have cost it to carry out the work.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and these said:
If you make a claim or possible claim under this policy, your insurer will at their
option: Repair, reinstate or replace the lost, damaged or stolen property or pay the cost of 
reinstatement through a repair or replacement nominated by your insurer
Based on that, I think that Fairmead acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
by offering to settle the claim in the way that it did.
Fairmead said it could do the work itself and, as part of that, calculated how much it would 
cost it to carry out the repairs. Fairmead also said that Mr A could get his own quotes for 
doing the work. Mr As quotes were considerably higher than Fairmeads. Im aware that 
insurers can often carry out work at a lower rate than a private individual paying a contractor, 
so I dont think that it was unusual for there to be a difference in Fairmeads and Mr As 
quotes, but the difference between the quotes was fairly large.
Im aware that Mr A is concerned about the quality of the work if Fairmead carried out the 
repairs and that, as a result, he wanted to appoint his own contractor to do the work. Ive 
looked at the quote prepared by Fairmead and I havent seen anything to suggest that it 
doesnt include everything that would be required to fix the damage. Although the amount 
that Fairmead would pay its own contractors to do the work was much lower than Mr A 
would have to pay a contractor, I also havent seen anything that indicated that the quality of 
the work wouldnt be of an appropriate standard. So, I cant see that it was unreasonable for 
Fairmead to say it would carry out the work in the way it proposed. 
Mr A has argued that his expectations were built up that Fairmead would be willing to pay a 
higher amount as a cash settlement if Mr A got quotes of his own. While I can see why Mr A 
thought this, I havent seen evidence that Fairmead committed to paying a cash settlement 
in line with Mr As quotes. I asked Fairmead why it asked Mr A to get quotes. It said that 
where it could it would try and accommodate customers, but that it would expect the quotes 
to be reasonable. In this case, it thought the quotes were excessive for the work involved. Mr 
A was also unhappy that he got five different quotes but Fairmead still wouldnt accept any of 
them. However, there were large differences in the amount of some of the quotes, so I can 
see why Fairmead asked for more quotes.
Mr A quoted a case study from our website which he said meant that Fairmead should offer 
a cash settlement at rates that would be available to him. We consider each complaint 
individually and on the specific circumstances of that case. But looking at the case study, in 
that instance, the insurer was only willing to offer a cash settlement, which isnt the case 
here, so different considerations applied. In this case, Fairmead is willing to carry out the 
work itself, but Mr A doesnt want it to do so. 
Im aware that the cash settlement offered was much less than the quotes that Mr A 
provided, but the key issue here is that Fairmead is willing to carry out the work. Where an 
insurer is willing to carry out the work, but the policyholder wants a cash settlement instead, 
we wouldnt normally expect the business to pay more than it would have paid to do the work 
itself. Having looked at the circumstances of this case, I cant see any reason to depart from 
that or to say that Fairmead must pay more as a cash settlement than it offered. 
Fairmead is willing to carry out the work, it has assessed and costed what it would take to 
repair the damage and I havent seen anything that makes me think that the damage 
wouldnt be repaired and to an appropriate standard. If Mr A agreed that Fairmead could do 
the work and it wasnt to an appropriate standard, he could raise a complaint with Fairmead 
about it and then refer it to this service if he wasnt happy with the response he received. 
Although his quotes are for a higher amount, he doesnt have to use any of those companies 
because Fairmead is willing to do the work. However, if Mr A would prefer to use another 
company, he is able to do so, but he would need to pay any additional costs himself
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. My current view is 
that Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and I dont intend to require it to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 26 November 2020.
Mr A replied and disagreed with my findings. In summary, Mr A said: the policy didnt say that Fairmead would only pay the amount its own contractors would 
charge. He also provided details of a case considered by this service where the 
ombudsman then required the insurer to settle it at the cost to the policyholder.
relying on a clause that said an insurer would only settle at the cost to itself was only fair 
if the quote was reasonable.
given the quotes he had obtained, it wasnt credible that Fairmead could carry out the 
works at the price it said it could.
He hadnt insisted on a cash settlement. It was offered to him but at a rate much lower 
than market rates. He thought that in the circumstances of the case, it was reasonable 
for him not to want Fairmead to carry out the work.
The claim itself wasnt handled well, including the drying process, Fairmead declining to 
carry out certain works as it didnt think they needed replacing and it asking Mr A to 
obtain multiple quotes.
That settling at the cost to the insurer didnt indemnify him.
The surveyor appointed by Fairmead as part of the claim wasnt regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
 
Fairmead didnt provide any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, this hasnt caused me to revise my decision and I remain of the view that 
the complaint is not upheld. As part of that, I appreciate the time that Mr A has taken to 
explain his views on the case. I have read them all, even if I dont comment on them here. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions again and havent seen anything unusual in 
the wording that would mean Fairmead wasnt entitled either to use its own contractor or, 
where the policyholder didnt want this to happen, to cash settle the claim for the amount it 
would cost it to carry out the work. I remain of the view that the offer made by Fairmead to 
settle the claim was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive looked at the case 
Mr A provided the details for, but it was about a different insurer and the decision was based 
on the individual circumstances of that complaint, including the unusual wording of the policy 
document.
Mr A has said that it isnt credible that the works could be carried out for the amount that 
Fairmead has said it would cost it to carry out the work. However, insurers are often able to 
negotiate special rates with contractors and I havent seen anything that suggested that the 
reason for Fairmeads lower costs were for any other reason than that. Im aware that Mr A 
has been unable to obtain a quote to get the work done himself for a similar amount, but that 
doesnt mean that the amount Fairmead says it can get the work done for is wrong, it is just 
negotiated on a different basis.
Im also aware that Mr A isnt confident about the quality of the work that would be carried 
out by Fairmeads contractor or that it would indemnify him. As Fairmead hasnt carried out 
the repair work this is a hypothetical scenario. So, I cant really comment on this beyond 
saying that if the work wasnt of an appropriate standard, Mr A could raise a new complaint 
with Fairmead about any issues.
Mr A has also said that he wasnt happy that he was asked to obtain multiple quotes and 
with how the drying process was dealt with. I note that Fairmead rejected one quote because 
it didnt add up correctly and others because it didnt assess that the costs were reasonable or covered items that it said were unnecessary. Fairmead did say that Mr A could submit 
quotes, but I note that Fairmead also explained on a few occasions that it could carry out the 
work or provide a cash settlement for the amount it would cost it to do the work. So, in my 
view, Fairmead agreed to look at quotes obtained by Mr A because he said he didnt want to 
use Fairmeads contractor, rather than it trying to inconvenience Mr A or cause him 
unnecessary work.
On the drying process, Fairmead promptly arranged for someone to assess the damage. 
That assessment didnt identify a need to carry out drying. Fairmead explained to Mr A that it 
wasnt willing to accept the costs for drying because all of the affected areas were being 
removed and disposed of. As Mr A and Fairmead couldnt reach agreement on how to settle 
the claim, Fairmead wasnt able to remove the damaged items, but I dont think that then 
meant Fairmead had to pay for a drying process to take place.
Mr A also said that a company appointed by Fairmead wasnt regulated by the FCA when it 
should be. He said this also undermined Fairmeads credibility. Fairmead, which is regulated 
by the FCA, was responsible for dealing with the claim, even if it delegated parts of the 
process to others. I note that Mr A contacted the company, which confirmed to Mr A that it 
was an appointed representative working on behalf of Fairmead and as a result didnt need 
to be authorised by the FCA. However, we are not the regulator, so Mr A would need to raise 
any specific concerns with the FCA.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Fairmead to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman