DRN-3238316
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with how Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora 
S.A.U (Telefonica) handled her claim for a damaged mobile phone.
What happened
In September 2021 Miss H made a claim on her mobile phone insurance as the screen on 
her phone was damaged. A like for like replacement wasnt possible as they didnt have the 
phone she had in stock, so Miss C accepted an alternative handset. She paid a higher 
excess fee of £90 to have a replacement phone delivered for a doorstep exchange rather 
than wait to send her phone to be assessed.
Having checked the specifications of the replacement, Miss H called Telefonica the same 
day as she didnt think it was suitable. She was advised she could refuse delivery and call 
back once that had been done to discuss an alternative. 
Miss H called back the following day advising she had refused delivery and was calling to 
order another replacement phone with equivalent specifications. The agent advised they 
could send through a replacement the next day for the same phone she had (S21 Ultra). 
Miss H said she would accept the same as hers or the one below it. The agent then 
confirmed it would be the S21 Ultra.
On 17 September 2021 Miss H called Telefonica as she had received the wrong handset. 
They had sent the S21+5G when she was expecting the S21 Ultra. Unhappy with the delay 
in receiving the correct replacement handset she made a complaint. She explained she was 
also unhappy that the delivery drivers were not wearing face masks.
Telefonica responded to Miss Hs concerns on 24 September 2021. They accepted theyd 
made an error when sending the replacement phone and apologised for the delay it caused. 
They awarded £50 for the distress and inconvenience and said they would refund £30 of the 
excess fee as Miss H hadnt had the service she paid for. They also said they had no control 
over the delivery drivers actions.
Miss H wasnt happy with this so referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator felt 
Telefonica had done enough to put things right, so didnt need to do anything more. Miss H 
remained unhappy, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Telefonica have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. The policy terms and 
conditions outline what is offered in the event of a claim for accidental damage. It says:
If your equipment is accidentally damaged anywhere in the world during the terms of 
cover, we will at our discretion either:
a) Repair your equipment, or
b) Replace your equipment with a product of the same or similar specification, as 
determined by us. Replacement equipment might be a different colour or model from a 
different manufacturer. It may be new, re-furbished, re-manufactured or re-packaged by 
a repair centre approved by us, or
c) In the case of damage we may give you the option to pay a higher excess for the 
exchange service on the same terms as (b) above. Details of the higher excess can be 
found at section 11.
Miss H chose to pay a higher excess for the exchange service. It was unfortunate that an 
error was made so she didnt receive the correct handset as expected. But Telefonica have 
accepted they made an error and apologised for it and the impact it had on the claim. 
Theyve also offered to refund the additional £30 she paid for the exchange service due to 
their error.
Im aware Miss H feels that due to the inconvenience she shouldnt have to pay any excess. 
However, the terms and conditions are clear that an excess is applicable to any claim, so I 
dont think its unreasonable shes been charged an excess fee thats in line with the terms of 
the policy.
Miss H received a replacement phone which is identical to the one she had, just over two 
weeks after the claim was made. I dont underestimate the inconvenience this caused, I 
know it was important to Miss H to have a phone, as she needed to have one at all times, 
and I understand why she was disappointed with the service she received. However, I note 
the terms say:
In the event that we are unable to replace your equipment with the exact model, we 
accept no responsibility for the delay should you decide to wait for an exact 
replacement rather than accept a model of similar specification as determined by us.
I know Miss H feels the models offered initially as an alternative werent of similar 
specification, and Im aware an adviser also commented on this, but the terms say they will 
provide a product of the same or similar specification as determined by Telefonica. So, they 
offered the alternatives they felt appropriate as the equivalent handset wasnt available at 
the time.  
Telefonica awarded Miss H £50 for the distress and inconvenience their error caused. Whilst 
I recognise the inconvenience the error and delay caused to Miss H, I dont think it had a 
significant impact on the time it took for her to receive the replacement handset. I say this 
because, whilst she was within her rights not to accept the alternative handsets offered, the 
one she wanted (S21 Ultra) was out of stock and delivered to Miss H on 4 October 2021 
soon after it came back in stock. So, the overall delay was out of their control and something 
their terms say they dont accept responsibility for. 
They did make an error, and I think £50 fairly covers the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. I say this because the error didnt leave Miss H without a handset as Im aware she 
had use of the handset that was sent in error during that time.
Miss H was unhappy the delivery drivers put her health at risk as they didnt wear face 
masks. Whilst I understand her concerns, this isnt something I can hold Telefonica 
accountable for as it isnt within their control.Overall, Im satisfied Telefonica have done enough to put things right. Theyve apologised 
and awarded compensation for the inconvenience caused. They also offered to refund the 
additional excess paid. 
My final decision
Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U have already made an 
offer to pay £80 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
My decision is that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U should 
pay Miss H £80 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman