DRN-4214717
The complaint
Mr G complains J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (Chase) has held him liable for an ATM 
withdrawal even though he didnt receive all the money hed requested.
What happened
Mr G has a card issued by Chase that he likes to use when hes abroad on holiday.
Mr G says he withdrew money from an ATM on his first night abroad. He says he asked for 
I170,000 HUF  and was charged for 170,000 HUF  but only received 17,000 HUF. Mr G 
says he took a photo of the money hed received  in 1,000 HUF notes  and details of the 
ATM and that he contacted the merchant straightaway. He says he was told to report the 
issue to his card issuer, so he thats what he did. He complained to Chase.
Chase says it contacted the merchant about the withdrawal Mr G had complained about. 
Initially the merchant said it couldnt identify the withdrawal. Both parties appear to accept 
that this was because of a misunderstanding over the card involved. The merchant 
subsequently sent evidence showing that its machine had dispensed 17 10,000 HUF notes 
and that Mr G had taken this money. In the circumstances, Chase said that it was going to 
hold Mr G liable for 170,000 HUF. Mr G complained to Chase and then to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended that Chase refund 
the difference in the amount Mr G said hed received  17,000 HUF  and the amount hed 
been made liable for  170,000 HUF. Chase disagreed with our investigators 
recommendations and asked for Mr Gs complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Chase 
said that the merchant had sent evidence that its machine had dispensed 17 10,000 HUF 
notes and that Mr G had taken this money which is enough under Mastercards ATM 
disputes guidance to hold the customer liable. Mr Gs complaint has, as a result been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint. In that provisional 
decision, I said the following:
Mr G has sent us evidence that suggests that he may well have received 17 1,000 
HUF notes rather than 17 10,000 HUF notes. For example, hes sent what appears to 
be a photo of him holding a bunch of 1,000 HUF notes  taken at the time of the 
disputed withdrawal. And photos of the ATM and its details  again taken at the time 
of the disputed withdrawal. I can see that he complained to the merchant 
straightaway too. Ive also spoken to Mr G on the phone, and when I did so he was 
not only able to answer all of my questions but was also able to send evidence I 
asked him for to back up what hed said straightaway. He told me that he tried to 
withdraw more cash shortly after the withdrawal hes complaining about  because 
he says he didnt get as much money as he was expecting  and that he used a 
different ATM as he no longer trusted the one that hed just used. His statements do 
indeed show he used a different ATM even though he doesnt appear to have left the 
area he was in that night  his statements show he buys more drinks at the bar hed 
bought drinks from before the ATM withdrawal. Chase has sent us evidence from the 
merchant in response to the chargeback claim it raised on behalf of Mr G. That 
evidence suggests that the ATM dispensed 17 10,000 HUF notes and that Mr G took 
them. In other words, the two parties have sent us conflicting evidence. For that 
reason, its important to understand what Chases obligations and role is in this 
particular case. Not least because, taking into account Chases obligations and role 
in this particular case, I dont agree with our investigator that this is a complaint that 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr G has complained that hes not received all of the money he requested when he 
made an ATM withdrawal. In such a case, as long as a customer has provided some 
evidence to back up what theyre saying, wed expect their card issuer to raise a 
chargeback with the merchant and to then follow the chargeback process. Thats 
what Chase did in this case. And, having done so, the merchant replied with 
evidence showing that its machine had dispensed 17 10,000 HUF notes and that Mr 
G took them. I dont think it was unreasonable of Chase to accept, based on that 
evidence, that the chargeback claim that it had made on Mr Gs behalf wasnt a 
successful claim. The fact that a bank raises a chargeback claim doesnt mean a 
customer is guaranteed a refund. In short, Chase handled the chargeback claim the 
way Id expect to and, in the circumstances, I dont agree its acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. It follows that I dont agree Chase has to refund Mr G.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision. Both did and both said that 
they had, in effect, nothing to add. In this case, I asked Chase if its willing to consider a 
refund in this particular case, as a gesture of goodwill. In my provisional decision I noted that 
was a decision for Chase, and Chase alone. Chase has confirmed it plans to stick to its 
original decision.Having reconsidered everything, I remain of the view that Chase hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably for the reasons Ive given. So, my final decision is that Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman