DRN-3653384
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as H has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr B has brought the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
H held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. It operates a pub.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 H closed 
its pub in March 2020. 
H claimed on the policy. Mr B said there had been a customer at the premises just before it 
was required to close who was later found to have most likely been infected with Covid-19 at 
the time of their visit.
Covea declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a 
result of a notifiable disease at the premises, H hadnt shown that Covid-19 was manifest at 
the premises before Government restrictions came into force.
Mr B brought Hs complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into Hs complaint but 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought Covea had turned down the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. He said there was nothing to suggest that H had closed 
its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
H asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Hs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Hs claim.
The most relevant part of Hs policy is the following extension:
The insurance is extended to include loss as insured in consequence of
1 A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely H closed its business because there was 
a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at its premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Hs policy  
require there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises.
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises. This can be contrasted with other 
policies that require only that a disease has occurred. A disease may have occurred in a 
person prior to it manifesting. But Hs policy requires the disease to manifest.
H has provided a screenshot of a social media post of two customers who said they had 
Covid-19. Unfortunately, one of them died from Covid-19 on 25 March 2020. But H hasnt 
provided any evidence that the customers were at Hs premises in March 2020 and if they 
were, that they had symptoms whilst at the premises. And they hadnt been tested at that 
point. So, I dont think I can fairly say that its most likely there was a case manifesting itself 
at Hs premises before it closed. 
I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to H. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Hs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman