DRN-3938497
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, (first direct) used a security 
process which she had opted out of in order to incorrectly identify her as a potential security 
risk to her account. She would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience and 
action taken to ensure that first direct cannot use this process in future.
What happened
On two occasions in 2022 Ms W tried to use telephone banking to administer her current 
account. Despite providing the correct verification information, a flag arose about whether 
she was, in fact, who she was claiming to be, and first direct would not allow her to access 
her account until further checks were completed. Those checks were completed via a call 
from first direct to Ms W with the asking of further questions.
She was told that the flag arose due to an issue with voice recognition. Having said that she 
did not wish voice recognition to be used on her account, Ms W was extremely concerned 
about this and complained.
first direct confirmed that Ms W had indeed opted out of using voice recognition to access 
her account, but told her that the software continued to run in the background and that it 
had concerns that she may have been a fraudster. Hence, its processes demanded 
further checks before allowing her access. Ms W officially complained that voice 
recognition processes were ongoing despite her having denied permission for that on her 
account.
first direct did not accept that it had done anything wrong, explaining that its systems 
monitor all incoming calls and on these occasions flagged that her voice was matched 
against a recording we know is a definite fraudster and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy that her data was being used against her wishes and that a system she had 
opted out of continued to be in place, Ms W brought her complaint to this service. The 
adjudicator looked at everything before deciding that there was no evidence that first direct 
had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms W doesnt accept that, with particular concerns that first direct has been lying and 
withholding evidence, and has asked an Ombudsman to look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman is to determine when a business has made a mistake that has 
caused a loss for or harm to a consumer, and direct that business to do what is necessary 
to put things right. I have no role in overseeing banking systems or judging their overall 
quality. In any event, I have found no evidence of a mistake by first direct, so am not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
first direct says that its Voice ID system, which can be used to verify account holders by 
comparing a callers voice to a recording of the customers voice, is not in use on Ms Ws 
account.  It has explained that all incoming calls are screened by its Voice ID systems in a 
way which compares those callers with recordings of known, identified, fraudsters. So 
regardless of the purpose of the call, or who the caller claims to be, any voice which has 
similarities to its database of known fraudsters voices will be flagged for additional checks 
by first directs agents.
Ms W does not accept this explanation. She continues to maintain that first direct failed to 
verify her, and that this means that it must have an unlawful recording of her voice. She 
has cited a series of recordings of calls she had with first direct in 2022 which she 
believes supports that conclusion. She says in those conversations first direct admitted it 
was using voice identification, and she also raises concerns about the recordings having 
been redacted in an attempt to withhold evidence.
I have listened to all the recordings as requested by Ms W. There are redacted parts, 
which Im confident happens when one of two things occurs. Firstly, when a first direct 
agent puts Ms W on hold, the recording pauses. This is normal. Secondly, when agents 
ask Ms W for her passcode information etc in order to go through security checks. Again, 
this is what I would expect as first direct would not want call recordings to contain 
information which could be used by an unauthorised person to gain access to a 
customers account. I have heard nothing which suggests to me that first direct has 
attempted to withhold evidence through call recording redactions.
Moving on to the content of those recordings and what first direct agents explained and 
admitted about voice recognition, I am able to reach several conclusions, on the balance 
of probabilities. Before setting those out, I would highlight that first direct has given 
consistent explanations about what happened. I find no evidence of contradictions or 
inconsistencies between agents. All the contemporaneous explanations I have heard and 
subsequent explanations I have read say the same things. So, based on the available 
evidence, I conclude the following is more likely than not:
1) That first direct did and does not hold a recording of Ms Ws voice.
2) That on these occasions it was not using Voice ID technology to verify Ms W, out of 
which she had opted.
3) Instead, it was using the passcode-related security checks as she had stipulated to 
verify her.
4) That it was using Voice ID technology in the background of all calls in order to look 
for similarities between all callers and recordings it held of known, identified 
fraudsters.
5) That on those occasions Ms Ws voice flagged as being similar to that of an 
identified fraudster, which triggered the need for additional security checks. Ms W 
says it cannot be that her voice is identical to a known fraudster, but at no point has 
there been any suggestion of that. (I would also highlight that it would make little 
sense for a database of known fraudsters voices to remain unchanged over 
decades, so the fact that this concern hadnt previously been flagged is of no 
relevance to my conclusion that first directs explanation is honest and accurate.)
first direct accepts that, in this instance, its system flagged unnecessary concerns about 
Ms Ws calls. But flagging what is ultimately an unnecessary concern is not the same as 
making a mistake.
I have found no evidence of unreasonable or unfair behaviour on first directs part taking into 
account the relevant regulations and requirements. It is, of course, unfortunate that the 
security screening technology flagged a potential concern around Ms Ws voice which was quickly identified as unfounded. However, the fact that first direct chooses to use a particular 
system in order to protect the security of customer accounts is not something I can comment 
on. Clearly that system has caused inconvenience to Ms W (via the additional calls to carry 
out further checks) on these two occasions, but I cannot conclude that first direct has done 
anything wrong which led to that inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and first direct doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman