DRN-1665071
 
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out PPI in 2001 at the same time as he applied for a mortgage. Its most likely the 
sale took place in one of the banks branches. The PPI gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
what we know about how Bank of Scotland sold PPI at the time. As an independent and 
impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit 
for us to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was told he had to take out PPI to get the mortgage, he didn't want it. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting and Bank of Scotland hasnt got any of the paperwork 
from Mr Ms sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago  and it doesnt automatically 
mean the policy was mis-sold. The bank says its more likely than not that the optional 
nature of the policy was verbally explained to Mr M in good time before the sale concluded. I 
have considered Mr Ms comments carefully but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly conclude Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear Mr M had a choice 
about PPI  and he didnt opt to take it out. 
It's most likely Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr M. And I think it seems to have 
been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances. Mr M told us he was 
entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick but the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 12 months for each successful accident 
and sickness claim. And it also offered redundancy cover for up to 12 months. Mr M said he 
had around £5,000 in savings but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover 
other living expenses whilst he wasnt working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr M was sick or lost his job. It gave 
him protection beyond his other means. And this could have been important given 
the consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against his home.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr M all the information he needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr M 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when 
it first made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his mind about buying 
it.
It follows I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman