DRN-2791984
The complaint
Miss P complains Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Miss P wanted assistance with costs to bring a legal claim in an employment 
dispute. Amtrust obtained legal opinion which suggested Miss P wasnt likely to be 
successful, therefore it refused to fund her claim. Miss P provided a supportive opinion from 
her solicitor, so Amtrust then arranged for an opinion to be sought from a Barrister. 
The Barristers opinion was that although some events Miss P wanted to bring action for may 
be likely to succeed, concerns were raised about the events happening before Miss P took 
out her insurance policy. Amtrust therefore continued to decline the claim as it wouldnt be 
covered under the policy due to the events starting before the policy did. 
Miss P is unhappy with the decision Amtrust has made and has raised various concerns 
about how the insurance claim has been handled. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss P Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points she has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by investigator that Amtrust hasnt 
acted unreasonably. I do so for the following reasons:
Amtrust was entitled to appoint a legal representative to assess the merits of Miss P 
succeeding in her claim  the policy defines that to be having a greater than 50% 
chance of a positive outcome. Its common for LEI policies to include a condition like 
this and generally our Service doesnt think that sort of clause is unfair. Thats 
because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt likely 
to succeed, or where a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or 
continue with, legal action. In this instance the initial advice received was that 
Miss Ps claim was unlikely to succeed
When Miss P presented a favourable solicitors opinion, Amtrust sought the opinion 
of a Barristers opinion as I would have expected it to
It wasnt unreasonable for Amtrust to decline to pay the fee for Miss Ps preferred 
choice of counsel. The opinion was for its purpose in confirming cover. The Barrister 
instructed was, in any event, more experienced than that proposed by Miss P 
Amtrust arent lawyers. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified legal 
advice, unless that advice is so obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected 
to identify it. In this case, Ive seen counsels opinion, it sets out in detail the reasons 
for the conclusion that has been reached. I dont think it is obviously wrong and I 
think its fair for Amtrust to rely on it to decline the claim
I appreciate Miss P is unhappy with counsels opinion, however I havent seen any 
evidence Amtrust misdirected counsel as she has suggested 
The policy confirms it wont provide cover for events which began or started to begin 
before the policy was purchased. Having considered everything available to me, I 
think Amtrust has reasonably applied this exclusion to the claim and relied on it to 
decline cover. I appreciate Miss P has said she didnt appreciate the significance of 
things that happened until after she sought advice and, that they concluded after the 
policy started. However, it remains they started to happen before the policy began
Amtrust invited Miss P to provide further evidence for the Barrister to consider, or to 
submit a further legal challenge from a suitably qualified Barrister. I think this was a 
was fair and reasonable action for Amtrust to take
Miss P has provided evidence that she had previous insurance policies. It maybe she 
is able to obtain assistance under those policies. However, the exclusion in Amtrusts 
policy is clear and as such, I dont think it would be reasonable, in this case, for it to 
take on this claim simply because Miss P had previous insurance policies 
I realise employment claims have tight deadlines and therefore why it was important 
for Miss P to receive quick answers. However, Amtrust was entitled to take steps to 
confirm cover and having reviewed the timeline, Im satisfied there werent any 
avoidable delays in it doing so. I understand the impact this had on Miss P, but I 
wont be awarding any compensation here as I dont think Amtrust acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how it handled her claim
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman