DRN-3955577
The complaint
Ms F complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made after an 
escape of water affected her flat.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. But Id like to assure both Ms F and UKI that Ive carefully considered all the 
information we have on file relating to this case.
Ms F lives in a housing association flat covered by an insurance policy underwritten by UKI. 
The policy covers buildings and contents, amongst other things.
Ms F made a claim in January 2022. After returning from a break, she discovered her flat 
had been severely affected by a water leak from the flat upstairs. 
UKI accepted the claim and, within days, their appointed loss adjuster had carried out an 
inspection of Ms Fs flat. In reasonably short order, a plan of action was formulated  strip 
out of the affected areas would be carried out, then drying of the property, followed by 
reinstatement.
UKI suggested Ms F might like to get quotes for the strip out and reinstatement work. But by 
around early February, Ms F had agreed with UKI that they would appoint contractors to 
carry out the work.
Ms F was also concerned about staying in the flat, given that there were large areas which 
were damp and the front door couldnt be opened or properly closed. UKI agreed to provide 
alternative accommodation. Ms F moved into a hotel in mid-March 2022 and later into a 
rental property.
Ms F made a complaint to UKI about the delay in moving her into alternative 
accommodation. And shes also complained to them about delays in the handling of the 
claim and poor communication and customer service.
UKI provided a final response to these complaints on 2 December 2022. At this point, the 
claim was still on-going, with the strip out works still not completed.
UKI admitted that their initial decision not to move Ms F into alternative accommodation until 
the repair works started was wrong. They also admitted that there had been avoidable 
delays and failures in the communication between the loss adjuster and Ms F in particular.
UKI offered Ms F £500 in compensation for her trouble and upset. And they said her 
alternative accommodation would be extended until February 2023, when the works should 
be completed, assuming she cooperated with the loss adjuster in agreeing the works to be 
carried out and their timing. 
Ms F wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He asked UKI to increase the compensation offered to Ms F to £750. He also said they 
should: 
complete the strip out works; 
provide an updated report (including moisture testing and setting out any further 
damage which had occurred in the flat due to its being left unoccupied and/or damp 
for so long);
provide a timeline for the repairs / reinstatement; and
extend Ms Fs alternative accommodation until the works had been completed and 
she could move back into her flat.
Ms F disagreed with the proposed outcome and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. She doesnt think the proposed compensation adequately covers the trouble 
and upset shes experienced as a result of UKIs failings. She also felt we should direct UKI 
in detail about what needs to be done to ensure her claim is handled correctly from now on 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim has become quite complicated. But the crux of the complaint is relatively simple. 
Ms F says her claim has been unnecessarily delayed and communication has been poor. 
And UKI dont dispute that.
Ill come to those issues in more detail below, but I need first to clear up exactly what our 
investigation - and this decision  can legitimately cover, particularly in terms of the time 
frames I have to apply. 
Our service operates according to rules (the dispute resolution, or DISP, rules) set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Those rules dictate how we carry out our work. And they 
give us any powers we have to require financial businesses to take any action(s) we specify.
Those rules say that we cant look into a complaint unless and until the financial business 
concerned has had a chance to look into it and/or resolve it themselves. The only exception 
would be where the business consents to our looking into things before theyve had a 
chance to do so. We dont have consent from UKI to do that in this case.
Ms F first complained to UKI in February 2022. Their final response to her complaints was 
issued on 2 December 2022. It was the matters addressed in that final response that Ms F 
was entitled to refer to us. And that were entitled to look into now.
I understand Ms F has now made a further complaint to UKI  about delays, poor 
communication and other things since 2 December 2022. Ms F would be entitled to make a 
further complaint to us about those matters if shes not happy with UKIs response.
However, because we have to act in accordance with the DISP rules, in this decision I can 
only look into events up to 2 December 2022. And any compensation I award will only cover 
the period between the claim being made (in January 2021) and the issuing of UKIs final 
response to Ms Fs complaint on 2 December 2022.I can understand Ms Fs frustration with this. And I can understand why she wants us to 
instruct UKI about what exactly they need to do now to resolve matters satisfactorily. But its 
not for us to become surrogate claims handlers  were a complaints-handling organisation 
and we have neither the capability nor the legal powers to involve ourselves in the minute 
detail of on-going claims.
Ill turn now to the substance of the matters I can consider in this decision.
UKI have admitted that their initial decision to put Ms F in alternative accommodation only as 
and when the repair works were being carried out was mistaken. 
The claim was made in mid-January 2022 and the loss adjusters first report was very soon 
after that. Ms F only moved into alternative accommodation in mid-March 2022. So, she 
spent two months living in conditions that were far from perfect and which UKI now admit 
she shouldnt have lived in. 
Whilst Ms F had all basic facilities available to her during that period, it was a mistake by UKI 
to leave her in the flat  as they now admit. And living there, without use of the front door, 
with concerns about security and with much of the flat affected by the escape of water from 
upstairs, must have been both stressful and inconvenient for Ms F.
Other than that, UKIs initial handling of the claim appears to have proceeded reasonably 
well. UKI were quick to get a loss adjuster to visit. The loss adjuster formulated a plan of 
action speedily  and UKI were quick to react when Ms F said she wanted them to find 
contractors to carry out the work.
However, from around April 2022, things appear to have gone downhill pretty quickly and 
fairly severely. From UKIs own claim notes, it appears to have taken around 6-8 weeks for 
the schedule of works (for which a draft was available from around early March) to be 
approved.
Its then around another six weeks before the contractors are scheduled to start the strip out 
work (in mid-May). That may simply be down to availability, but when the contractors arrived 
to do the work, the loss adjuster didnt turn up to let them in to the property or instruct them.
By the time the various parties had bottomed out what had happened, it was another few 
weeks or so before the contractors could return. And, on this occasion, the contractors didnt 
turn up at all on the agreed date (in late May).
Communication with Ms F was limited through this period  if not non-existent. It wasnt until 
mid-July that the loss adjuster was in touch with Ms F. And it appears all that happened at 
that point was that they agreed the strip out works could start as soon as possible.
According to UKIs claim notes, nothing at all then happens through the rest of July and the 
whole of August.
In mid-September, the loss adjuster discussed progress with Ms F. Ms F at this point 
appears to ask the loss adjuster to consider damage to her living room ceiling which has 
now become apparent, and which may have been caused by the escape of water. She also 
raises concerns about the replacement (or not) of the underlay through much of the flat, 
which appears to have been affected by the escape of water.
These are matters which may not have been raised before  but arguably should have been 
picked up at the outset by the loss adjuster. And in any case, they should not have caused 
any great delay.However, according to the claim notes, nothing at all happens in the rest of September or in 
October, until the loss adjuster produces a progress report on 25 October.
When, in November 2022, Ms F questions what progress has been made, the loss adjuster 
arranges asbestos testing at the flat. The obvious question being why this hadnt been 
addressed sooner. And he says the strip out is 90% complete. 
At this point, the loss adjuster appears to suggest that any delays are down to Ms F failing to 
cooperate with him and/or the contractors to arrange dates and/or to confirm material 
choices for the reinstatement works etc. He says hes been trying to contact Ms F for a 
week or two. Which begs the question what happened in the eight or nine months before 
that week or two?
At this point, it seems to me, Ms F doesnt wish to confirm her material choices for the 
reinstatement works because shes concerned that UKI arent intending to take out the 
underlay  which, on the face of it, is still damp. And because the flat is now badly affected 
by mould  at least according to the photographs Ms F has sent us.
 In essence, Ms F  quite understandably  wants to know what UKI are planning to do 
about those issues. And shes concerned that they dont simply reinstate her property on top 
of the damp and mould.
Its possible UKI  or the contractors  have a plan about how to deal with those matters, but 
I cant see any evidence that they shard any such plan with Ms F or attempted in any other 
way to allay her fears. 
Indeed, her concerns may well have been exacerbated by the loss adjusters insistence that 
the flat had dried naturally and no longer need drying before the reinstatement works 
commenced. 
I can see from the evidence we have on file that Ms F hasnt always responded immediately 
to the loss adjusters or contractors questions and/or requests to discuss the works albeit 
sometimes with good reason. I can also see that there was a month or so when Ms F had  
and then was recovering from  a medical operation and didnt want any work carried out on 
the flat in that period.
However, the attempt to shift the blame on to Ms F for the delays in the handling of this claim 
is entirely unjustified and unfair. The works set out at the outset  strip out, drying and 
reinstatement  might usually be expected to be relatively simple and to take three or four 
months at most. 
Instead, by December 2022, when UKI issued their final response to Ms Fs complaints, she 
was still waiting for completion of the strip out works. 
Theres no possible justification for that delay, in all the circumstances. And Im pleased but 
not surprised that UKI have admitted that in their final response to Ms Fs complaints. 
To UKIs credit, theyve also admitted that communication with Ms F through the handling of 
the claim has been poor. And, as I say, theyve also admitted that Ms F should have been in 
alternative accommodation from the outset.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator about what UKI need to do now to progress the claim and allay 
Ms Fs legitimate concerns. As soon as practically possible, UKI need to ensure the strip out works are completed (if 
these havent been completed as yet). 
They then need to get expert assurance that the property is dry. And if it isnt, they need to 
engage drying specialists to make it so.
UKI must then provide an updated report  which should be shared with Ms F - which 
identifies all the remaining work required at the property. This should address the issues 
around the underlay and the mould. And it should address whether the other damage 
identified by Ms F as the claim has gone on  including the damage to the living room ceiling 
 is claim-related (and if so, how it is to be repaired).
They then need to carry out those works. And pay for Ms Fs alternative accommodation 
until those works are complete.  
I hope some of these steps may already be underway  or even complete  since the time 
this case was referred to me for a final decision.
Ill turn now to the compensation to be awarded to Ms F.
To go back to the clarification I gave above, I am only looking here at the period up to 
2 December 2022. I know Ms F wishes to complain about UKIs handling of the claim since 
then. If UKI have made further errors, then any compensation for trouble and upset suffered 
by Ms F in the period after 2 December 2002 will be addressed as part of the consideration 
of the new complaint(s) Ms F has made  or will make.
Between mid-January and 2 December 2022. Ms F spent around two months living in a flat 
which UKI subsequently admitted should have been deemed uninhabitable. That was 
undoubtedly stressful and inconvenient for Ms F.
After that point (in mid-March 2022), Ms F was out of her own flat for another eight or nine 
months up to 2 December 2022 (Im aware she was still not back in her flat through to 
February 2023, but as Ive explained, in this decision I can only look into the period up to 2 
December 2022). 
UKI didnt cause the escape of water in the upstairs flat. And Ms F was always going to 
suffer considerable distress and inconvenience as a result of that. 
So, what Im looking at here, in order to decide the appropriate compensation, is the 
additional time Ms F has spent out of her flat as a result of UKIs errors or failings. 
It wouldnt have been unreasonable for the work to start up to around six weeks or so after 
the claim was first made, given the need for UKI to assess the property, scope the work and 
find contractors. And given the fact that they reasonably believed for a period of time that 
Ms F was looking for contractors herself. That would take us to around the end of February.
It then wouldnt have been entirely unreasonable in all the circumstances if the work had 
taken up to around four months or so, given the need for drying out and the presence of 
asbestos in the property.
All in all, that would take us to around the end of June. Its then five more months  until 
early December - before UKI issue their final response to Ms Fs complaint. So, what Im looking at in this decision, when assessing Ms Fs trouble and upset, is two 
months in an uninhabitable flat - and then five additional months in alternative 
accommodation over and above the time that would be reasonably necessary to conclude 
the repairs in a claim like this.
For those additional months, Ms F lived in acceptable alternative accommodation, with all 
the necessary facilities. So, whilst its not pleasant to be out of ones own home, Ms F wasnt 
living in sub-standard conditions.
I also have to take into account the additional stress and worry caused for Ms F by UKIs 
failure to communicate effectively with her over the period between around the end of March 
(up until them the communication is reasonably regular, timely and clear) and early 
December 2022. 
During that period  of around 8 months  Ms F regularly has to chase UKI for progress 
reports and updates  which caused her a degree of inconvenience. Often, in that period, it 
was immediately apparent to Ms F that no effective progress was being made  at the very 
least, not until she pushed for it. That must have been stressful and concerning. 
And, particularly in the later part of that period, it appeared UKI werent listening to what 
Ms F was telling them  for example, about the damp underlay and/or the mould growing in 
the flat. And they certainly werent giving her any reassurance that those issues would be 
addressed  or that UKI would take into account the further damage shed reported to them.
Persistently asking Ms F to choose materials for the reinstatement, when she had made it 
clear she didnt want to choose materials  and effectively let the work go ahead  until her 
questions about the drying out of her flat had been resolved, was unfair and unreasonable. 
And it wasnt likely to lead to the claim being progressed.
That must have been stressful and very frustrating for Ms F given her reasonable desire to 
have the repairs carried out in an effective manner.
Taking all of that into account, I agree with our investigator that the £500 offered by UKI 
wasnt sufficient to compensate Ms F for the trouble and upset she was caused by UKIs 
errors and failings.
I also agree with him that £750 is an appropriate amount of compensation  for the specific 
period Im allowed to consider in this decision. 
We set out our views on compensation for trouble and upset on our website. We say there 
that we think awards of between £300 and £750 are reasonable and appropriate where a 
customer has suffered considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption  over many weeks or months. 
In my view, that is exactly the kind of trouble and upset Ms F has experienced in this case. 
And an award at the very top end of that bracket is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
Again, I should repeat, that award covers the period from the start of the claim, in January 
2022, through to 2 December 2022, when UKI issued their final response to Ms Fs 
complaints (up to that point). Any alleged errors or failings on UKIs part beyond that date 
must be the subject of a new complaint (or complaints).My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Fs complaint.
U K Insurance Limited must:
complete the agreed strip out works as soon as possible (if they arent already 
complete);
get expert confirmation that the property is dry and/or, if it isnt, carry out drying as 
soon as practically possible;
provide an updated report (to be shared with Ms F) setting out the remaining work to 
be carried out  this should cover the issues with the underlay and the mould and 
should set out whether any additional damage reported by Ms F since she made the 
original claim is covered by the policy;
complete any remaining reinstatement works as soon as practically possible;
pay for Ms Fs alternative accommodation until the works are completed (assuming 
Ms F cooperates reasonably with the process); and 
pay Ms F £750 in compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman