DRN-2857044
The complaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt pursue a chargeback request for a transaction 
made on his debit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
In short, Mr K made a payment online on for £60, in respect of paying a fee related to a court 
application form. Upon realising that he had completed the wrong court form, he then asked 
the merchant for a refund  but this was declined. Mr K was advised that in order to amend 
his form, another form would need to be completed which had an associated fee of £100.
Because Mr K felt this was unfair, he approached Metro Bank to dispute the £60 payment. 
Having done so, hes unhappy that his chargeback request was unsuccessful.
Where these material facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, a chargeback potentially provides a consumer with extra protection if 
something goes wrong with the goods and/or services that are bought using a method of 
payment covered by the card scheme. In this case, Mr Ks chargeback was dealt with under 
MasterCards rules. 
Its important to point out that Im not deciding if the merchant or MasterCard have done 
anything wrong here. Rather, when determining this complaint, Ive only considered whether 
Metro Bank acted fairly in the way it dealt with Mr Ks chargeback claim. 
Having done so, Im not satisfied that Metro Bank did something wrong that would require it 
to refund the £60 payment or make a compensatory award. I say so for the following 
reasons:
 If the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres reasonable prospect of success I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made. However, I emphasise that a chargeback is part of a 
voluntary scheme which is operated by some card issuers such as Metro Bank  theres 
no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. 
 It was for Metro Bank to decide whether this chargeback was likely to succeed. Id 
expect it to have made that assessment on a reasonable basis and upon considering the 
available information. In other words, its not unreasonable for a bank to not progress a 
claim where the evidence shows there is little chance of the chargeback succeeding.
 Metro Bank followed Mr Ks request for the chargeback to be raised on the basis that the 
goods/services were not received  which seems logical, as I understand theres no 
chargeback grounds for a consumer error. In order to raise this particular request, 
Mastercard required certain information. Im satisfied Metro Bank duly requested this 
from Mr K on multiple occasions. And although Mr K did provide some supporting 
evidence, he was unable to provide a copy of the relevant terms and conditions.
 Whats more, Mr K conceded that he hadnt read the terms and conditions before making 
the payment anyway. Metro Bank knew that the payment hadnt been taken by the 
merchant in error  Mr K accepted that he simply made an oversight with the associated 
form. And its common ground that there wasnt anything unlawful or fraudulent about the 
sales or the subsequent manner in which the purchase process was conducted.
 So, as I see it, Metro Bank was left to determine the prospects of a successful claim 
based on the information it had, having given Mr K a fair opportunity to support his side 
of the dispute. The merchant submitted its own evidence to prove that Mr K wasnt 
eligible for a refund, which it supported by referring Metro Bank to the terms and 
guidance held on its website. I find it only fair that Metro Bank considered this alongside 
what Mr K had provided, because the chargeback rules set out that the merchant also 
has the opportunity to refute and decline a claim made. 
 Overall, Metro Bank decided that it had insufficient grounds to take the chargeback any 
further. On the information I have, Im not satisfied that Metro Bank was in a position to 
pursue the matter. Ultimately, I dont think it had enough to rebut what the merchant said; 
the information supplied, together with the terms and conditions that can be found online, 
persuade me that this chargeback did not have a reasonable chance of success under 
the scheme rules.
 It follows that, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I dont require Metro Bank to do 
anything further for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman