DRN-2855337
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading Virgin Money didnt tell him when the 
promotional interest rate of his credit card came to an end. Mr H also complains that Virgin 
Money didnt sent him a persistent debt letter as required. 
What happened
Mr H opened a credit card with Virgin Money in February 2016. The credit card came with a 
0% promotional interest rate that was due to expire in October 2018. Mr H maintained 
payments to his credit card and at the end of the promotional period his payments increased 
to include interest. 
In October 2019 Virgin Money says it sent Mr H a Persistent Debt letter. Mr H has explained 
he didnt receive Virgin Moneys letter and had previously asked for all correspondence to be 
sent by email. 
Last year, Mr H complained to Virgin Money that it hadnt made it clear his promotional 
interest rate ended. Mr H also complained he hadnt received the Persistent Debt letter. 
During Mr Hs discussions with Virgin Money he was initially told the regulations meant it had 
to send Persistent Debt letters in the post. But Virgin Money later apologised and said it can 
send them by email but uses the post for these letters. Virgin Money didnt uphold the 
remaining issues. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Virgin Money had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H 
asked to appeal and reiterated he hadnt received the Persistent Debt letter Virgin Money 
claims to have sent and wasnt aware his interest rate had changed. As Mr H asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has explained he wasnt aware the promotional interest rate for his credit card had 
ended. Virgin Money says it acted in line with the credit agreement and account terms. Ive 
looked at the available information and I can see the promotional interest rate ended in 
October 2018, in line with Virgin Moneys agreement with Mr H. I note the first statement 
Virgin Money sent Mr H included the end date for the promotional offer and confirmed it was 
October 2018. 
I also note that Virgin Money sent Mr H monthly statements afterwards that also included 
how much he needed to pay and the relevant interest rate. Ive looked at the account terms 
but theres nothing that says Virgin Money had to send Mr H separate notice his promotional 
interest rate was due to come to an end. As our investigator has said, Mr Hs payments also 
increased once interest began to be charged by Virgin Money. In my view, Virgin Money 
provided clear information about what interest rates would be charged on Mr Hs credit card 
and how much he had to pay. I havent found this information was unclear or hidden. 
Mr H has told us he only wanted emails and didnt receive Virgin Moneys Persistent Debt 
letter in October 2019. Virgin Money has confirmed it can send Persistent Debt emails, but it 
wrote to Mr H in the post. Virgin Money has also confirmed it has no record of Mr H asking 
for all correspondence to be sent by email and that its terms allow it to communicate using 
the details it has on file. I havent been persuaded Virgin Money acted unfairly by posting its 
Persistent Debt letter in October 2019. 
Whilst I understand Mr H has told us he didnt receive the letter in question, Virgin Moneys 
system notes show a letter with the Persistent Debt coding was sent in October 2019 as 
claimed. And Virgin Money has the same address details as Mr H provided to this service. 
Ive also seen a copy of the Persistent Debt letter and can confirm its correctly addressed. I 
accept theres no direct record of Mr H receiving the letter. Where the circumstances of a 
complaint are disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based on all the 
information available. On balance, Im satisfied Virgin Money did send Mr H a Persistent 
Debt letter in October 2020 as it claims. 
I can see Virgin Money has apologised for giving Mr H some incorrect information when he 
asked about how it sends Persistent Debt letters. The information was corrected without any 
undue delays and I think thats a fair way to resolve this part of Mr Hs complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt with his complaint fairly. As 
a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman