DRN-3615000
The complaint
Ms H complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
unreasonably delayed her legal expenses insurance claim and restricted her freedom to 
choose her own solicitor.
What happened
Ms H holds a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS. She made a claim in 
February 2021, seeking assistance with a dispute against her neighbour who was causing 
damage to her property as a result of their renovations to an adjoining wall. 
DAS accepted the claim (subject to a legal assessment) and appointed their panel solicitors 
(Firm D) to consider the claims prospects. Ms H expressed the urgency of the matter and 
said she wanted to seek an injunction against her neighbour from carrying out any further 
work. She was unhappy with Firm D as they said it would take up to around 28 days to 
consider her claim.
Ms H expressed her concerns to DAS and said she had lost faith in Firm D, so they 
subsequently agreed to appoint a different panel solicitor (Firm I) in March 2021. However, 
Ms H was unhappy that they would also not send an urgent letter to her neighbours before 
carrying out a prospects assessment. She told DAS on 6 May 2021 that she was refusing to 
sign their form of authority. Firm I was therefore unable to assess whether the claim was 
covered under the policy, and Ms H appointed her own solicitors (Firm J). However, DAS 
said they would not cover the legal costs of Ms Hs chosen solicitor as freedom of choice did 
not apply, given that proceedings were not imminent or in the process of being issued.
Ms H complained that DAS had unfairly restricted her freedom to choose her own solicitor. 
She said that her first course of action would have been to seek an injunction to prevent the 
neighbour from carrying out any further work (such that proceedings were imminent), so the 
matter could be considered in line with the Party Wall Act 1996. She also complained that 
DAS had unreasonably delayed her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. He wasnt satisfied that freedom of choice 
applied at the point Ms H requested her own solicitors be appointed, given that proceedings 
hadnt been issued or prospects even confirmed. He acknowledged that the service provided 
by DAS could have been better but thought their offer of £100 compensation was fair. Ms H 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Freedom of choice
I appreciate that Ms H wanted to appoint her own solicitors as she wanted to initiate 
proceedings against her neighbour as soon as possible. She submits that DAS have acted 
unfairly by restricting her freedom of choice in this matter by insisting that she use their panel 
solicitors in the first instance to assess the claim. However, I dont consider theyve acted 
unfairly or in breach of the policy terms and/or relevant law and regulations by doing so. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
On receiving a claim, if legal representation is necessary, we will appoint a preferred 
law firm as your appointed representative to deal with your claim. They will try to 
settle your claim by negotiation without having to go to court.
If the appointed preferred law firm cannot negotiate a settlement of your claim and it 
is necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is a conflict of 
interest, then you may choose a law firm to act as the appointed representative.
Im satisfied this policy term is consistent with Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies 
(Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990 Regulations), which provide a 
policyholder with the freedom to choose their own solicitor only in certain circumstances:
(1) Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person).
(2) The insured shall also be free to choose a lawyer (or other person having such 
qualifications as may be necessary) to serve his interests whenever a conflict of 
interest arises.
Ms H has cited various judgments and European caselaw to argue that freedom of choice 
applies generally and even in instances where proceedings are simply contemplated. It has 
long been our approach that the caselaw and legislation does not confer freedom of choice 
before it becomes necessary to issue legal proceedings  i.e. at the point when negotiations 
break down and proceedings become necessary, or there is a conflict of interest. 
However, irrespective of whether proceedings had become necessary in Ms Hs case, in 
order for the insured to be able to choose their own solicitor under a legal expenses policy, 
there first needs to be a valid claim that meets the policy requirements (such as being 
proportionate and enjoying reasonable prospects of success), such that the insurer has 
agreed to fund legal action. 
At the point Ms H requested the appointment of her own solicitor, her claim had not even 
received a legal assessment to determine whether it would fall to be covered under the 
policy. DAS had requested Firm I to undertake such an assessment, but Ms H refused to 
sign their form of authority to act on her behalf. Signing the form and allowing Firm I to 
undertake a prospects assessment would not have precluded her from subsequently 
choosing her own solicitor when proceedings were to be initiated, as that it what the policy 
and 1990 Regulations provide for. 
Had Ms H allowed Firm I to complete a legal assessment of the claim  and if that 
assessment showed the claim was covered and enjoyed reasonable prospects etc  then 
she would have been entitled to appoint her own solicitors if indeed she was seeking an 
injunction, as proceedings would have then become necessary. However, she refused to 
provide her agreement for Firm I to assess her claim, and the panel solicitors closed their file 
in June 2021. As a result, it still hasnt yet been determined whether there is even a valid claim for the insurer to fund in this instance, so any discussion or consideration around Ms H 
having the freedom to choose her own solicitor to pursue her legal claim is therefore 
premature.  
I appreciate Ms H may not have thought that Firm I could act quickly enough, such that her 
own firm should have been appointed to consider prospects. But she would have still had to 
provide all the information to her own solicitors for a prospects assessment to be completed 
first before any funding could be agreed, which is the same process she wouldve had to go 
through if she had allowed Firm I to assess the claim. 
Ms H has made several arguments about how proceedings were imminent such that she 
should have been allowed freedom of choice from the outset. But I note that proceedings 
have still not been issued in pursuit of her legal claim. Ms H has said she wouldnt have 
been able to bring any proceedings without first having the funding in place from her legal 
expenses insurance. As a result, it cannot reasonably be said that any legal proceedings 
were imminent or that they could even reasonably be contemplated if such action was 
indeed contingent on the claim first being covered by DAS. Therefore, I dont consider there 
to have been any obligation on the insurer to have appointed Ms Hs solicitors over their own 
panel firm in order to carry out the initial assessment of the claim. 
Under my terms of reference, I can look beyond the law and strict policy terms to decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But in a case such as this, where 
the policy gives the right of choice to the insurer, the circumstances would have to be 
exceptional to justify overriding the policy terms and allowing the policyholder freedom of 
choice before the claim had even been assessed. I have not identified or been made aware 
of any special features or circumstances of Ms Hs legal claim that would justify such an 
approach. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that there is nothing inherently unfair or unreasonable in DAS 
refusing to allow freedom of choice at the preliminary stage of the claim.
Handling of the claim
In terms of the insurers handling of the claim, I accept that the service she received had, at 
times, been less than desirable. I can see, for example, that she had to chase DAS for 
updates to ensure her claim was progressing, and I accept that matters could have moved 
faster when she first made her claim in February 2021 given the urgency of the situation. 
However, Im not persuaded that DAS are ultimately responsible for any further damage 
sustained to Ms Hs property while the claim was ongoing. It was Ms H who refused to allow 
Firm I to assess her claim, which has ultimately delayed a decision on whether her claim 
would be funded so she could initiate proceedings to stop any further work (if indeed it was 
covered). So, I dont consider the insurer can reasonably be blamed for the lost opportunity 
of applying for an injunction at the time to prevent any further damage. 
However, in terms of the other aspects of the insurers handling of the claim, DAS has 
accepted that their service could have been better in terms of keeping Ms H updated and 
responding to her queries during the claims process. They offered £100 in recognition of the 
breakdown in communication, which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable compensation in all 
the circumstances.
I appreciate Ms H may not consider this amount to be commensurate to the experience she 
has had. But Im satisfied they made attempts to address Ms Hs concerns as and when they 
were raised. DAS acted upon her concerns about the initial panel solicitors (Firm D), for 
example, when she said she had lost faith in them, at which point they subsequently agreed for Firm I to be appointed instead to take the claim forwards. 
I understand this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms H, and she may now wish to 
revert back to DAS to discuss the next steps in terms of proceeding with a legal assessment 
of her claim. However, due to the reasons set out above, I wont be asking them to take any 
further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman