DRN-4275625
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (trading as Avant Credit) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr H with a first loan for £3,500.00 in October 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £200.16. Mr H was then provided with a 
second loan for £5,400.00. This loan had a 36-month term and was due to be repaid in         
36 monthly repayments of around £308.17. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Avant Credit had told us. And she thought 
that Avant Credit hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit provided Mr H with loans for £3,500.00 and £5,400.00. These loans were due 
to be repaid in 24 and 36 monthly instalments respectively. Avant Credit says it agreed to  
Mr Hs applications after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on 
his expenditure. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on credit searches it carried out as well as 
payslips and bank statements that it obtained from Mr H. And all of this information showed 
Mr H could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mr H has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Avant Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Avant Credit obtained quite a bit of information from Mr H. 
And it didnt simply accept Mr Hs declarations at face value. It has provided a record of the 
results of its credit searches. Avant Credit searches appear to show that Mr H did have 
some existing debts but that his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Hs debt total at the time of the applications 
wasnt excessive. 
Ive also kept in mind that Avant Credit provided a second loan to Mr H and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But Mr H repaid loan 1 very 
quickly. And while the amount of loan 2 was higher and Mr H says he only repaid loan 1 
through further borrowing, I think that this was a warning sign should Mr H return for further 
borrowing rather than a reason to decline Mr Hs application. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr Hs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably  particularly as there wasnt anything else obvious in these 
applications which clearly demonstrated Mr H couldnt have afforded the loans either. 
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Avant Credit obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies and most importantly the 
information gathered suggesting that the loans were affordable, Im satisfied that Avant 
Credit was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr H. I say this while especially mindful that we 
havent been provided with anything else which demonstrates the loans were obviously 
unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Avant Credit did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to  Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. Furthermore, the second loan was 
provided in circumstances where Mr Hs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Avant Credit treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman