DRN-4300979
The complaint
Miss C complains that Zopa Bank Limited held her responsible for a loan agreement she 
says she didnt enter into.
What happened
Miss C fell victim to an investment scam. She says fraudsters took out a loan on her behalf, 
which was paid into her account. They said that the loan was a mistake and she needed to 
repay the funds. So she sent the loan funds to the fraudster.
Zopa said that the loan was taken out using her correct personal details, which shed 
provided to the fraudsters, so it could hold her responsible for repayments.
Miss C referred the complaint to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold it. 
They noted that Miss C had received emails relating to the loan and concluded that she must 
have been aware of it. It was therefore fair for Zopa to hold her responsible for it.
Miss C disagreed with our Investigators view. In summary, she said:
-She hadnt seen any documents to show that she authorised or signed for the loan.
-The fact shed given over I.D. to the fraudster did not amount to giving consent for 
the loan to be taken out.
-I.D. alone shouldnt have been sufficient for the loan to be applied for. She 
questioned what other information had been used by the fraudsters.
-She hasnt even seen the loan agreement or the terms of the loan.
-She questioned which I.P. address was used to take out the loan and who signed for 
it.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
In advance of my final decision I wrote to Zopa. I informed it that, based on the evidence Id 
seen, I didnt think that Miss C had actually applied for the loan (for reasons Ill go on to 
explain) but that she ought to have known that a loan had been taken out in her name. I 
suggested that it was fair for Zopa to hold Miss C liable for the principal sum, but not any 
charges or interest. It transpired that Miss C had already reached a settlement with Zopa. 
She paid less than the principal sum to settle the loan in full.
I also suggested that, as I didnt think Miss C agreed to the loan, there shouldnt be any 
adverse information about it recorded on her credit file. Zopa agreed to this suggestion and 
have said that it is taking steps to remove this information.
Our Investigator wrote to Miss C to explain what had happened and to ask whether the steps 
taken by Zopa have resolved her complaint, but they didnt receive a response. So, Ill now 
give my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Miss C cant be, fairly and reasonably, held liable under a loan 
agreement unless she entered that agreement herself or gave permission for someone else 
to enter that agreement on her behalf. Miss C denies doing either.
If Miss C didnt enter the agreement herself or give anyone else permission to do so, Zopa 
can still fairly hold Miss C responsible for the principal sum, if she knew or ought reasonably 
to have known that the money she received was a loan in her name and she passed it to the 
fraudsters regardless. If Miss C passed on the money without understanding that it was a 
loan in her name then it wouldnt be fair for her to have any liability. 
I understand that Miss C had been told that the loan funds had been paid by mistake. I can 
see that the messages between her and the fraudster suggest the loan is processing from 
their end. That cant be true  theyd have no sight of Zopas payment system. So, this 
statement does support what Miss C has said  that the fraudsters likely applied for the loan 
and suggested that it had come from, or been brought about as a result of, them. So I accept 
that, on balance, Miss C didnt apply for this loan and was misled about its true nature. That 
means that Zopa cant hold her liable for anything other than the principal sum.
But, theres no dispute that Miss Cs email address was provided as part of the application 
and that she received an email which confirmed that a loan had been applied for in her 
name. That email is clear  I dont think Miss C ought reasonably to have taken any other 
meaning from it than what was intended. Theres no reason to think that Miss C wouldnt 
have also received the email confirming the success of the loan application, providing further 
confirmation that there was a loan in her name. As the emails are very clear, I think the onus 
was on Miss C to check with Zopa before paying money away. 
Overall, while Miss C may not have applied for the loan or given anyone else permission to 
do so, she ought reasonably to have known that the funds she received were funds from a 
loan in her name. That means that Zopa can hold her liable for the principal sum, but no 
charges or interest. But, in any case, shes already paid off the loan at a discount, which puts 
her in a better position than Id recommend. And, following my recent correspondence with 
Zopa, it has also agreed to remove any adverse information about the loan from her credit 
file.
While I recognise that Miss C has lost out here as a result of a cruel scam, I think that the 
actions Zopa have already agreed to take put Miss C in the position she should, fairly and 
reasonably, be in. So, Im not asking it to do anything further. Miss C should be aware that it 
may take several months for her credit file to be updated. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Zopa Bank Limited to request the removal of the 
loan from Miss Cs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman