DRN-3740410
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Santander UK Plc unreasonably refused to refund a series of 
transactions debited from her account between 17 and 18 December 2021 following the loss 
or theft of her phone and debit card on 17 December. 
What happened
After Miss K had been at the supermarket shopping. she noticed her phone was missing and 
then she noticed her card was missing. She reported the loss of her phone to her mobile 
phone provider and her card to Santander plus reported both to the police.  She bought a 
new phone and her mobile phone company provided a SIM with her original number. 
Then she discovered there was several transactions which occurred on 17 and 18 
December which she did not authorise. So, she asked Santander to refund them. Santander 
investigated the matter and decided that because One Time Passcodes (OTPs) were sent 
to her mobile phone to complete the transactions and it didnt believe her mobile phone 
security could be bypassed, it refused her claim.  Miss K complained but Santander refused 
to change its stance. 
So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Miss K 
disagreed so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2023 and I said the following: 
There are several issues that concern me as regards the conclusions reached by 
Santander. The first being the evidence it sent us, which it itself agrees is confusing. 
Much of the technical screenshots arent that helpful and singularly dont appear to 
show extensive online banking which it now believes Miss K did. 
Santander appears now to be relying on the fact that the OPTs sent to Miss Ks 
phone then needed to be entered into the online banking app to complete the 
authentication process for the purchases. But I dont consider this correct. It didnt 
say that in the final response letter or in any of its contact notes with Miss K. It only 
started to say that in its communication with the investigator. 
More importantly the app verification for online payment (Strong Customer 
Verification) was supposed to be introduced during 2018. However, it only became 
fully active on 14 March 2022 which is after these disputed transactions on Miss Ks 
account. Therefore, its clear to me that the OTPs for the disputed purchases on Miss 
Ks account most likely did not need inputting into any Santander banking app for 
cogent authentication, contrary to what Santander is now saying needed to have 
occurred. Its clear to me that in all probability the OPTs were simply sent as a text to 
Miss Ks phone which then could be entered into the merchants website to complete 
the transactions.
So that brings us back to the loss or more likely theft of Miss Ks phone and card. We 
dont know if Miss Ks phone was locked when it was stolen. Or if the thief saw her 
inputting the pattern code which locked her phone. But it seems on balance to me, 
given the disputed transactions included transactions for betting companies, where 
theres no previous betting transactions on her account; a mobile phone top up from 
a company not connected to Miss K mobile phone provider; plus several purchases 
from a store where Miss K doesnt have an account, that its likely the security on her 
phone was breached sufficiently to receive the OPTs sent by Santander for the use 
of her also stolen card. Given there were also attempts to use the card details after 
Santander had cancelled it, further persuades me the transactions were likely 
fraudulent and therefore unauthorised under the regulations.  Lastly Miss K further 
took the step of reporting it to the police and getting a crime reference number too.
Therefore, I consider Santander should now refund all the disputed transactions with 
interest from the date of the transactions.  This is because the payments to the 
mobile phone top up and purchases are distance contracts  so under the relevant 
regulations these should be refunded. 
The transactions to the gambling merchant are excepted contracts, so not covered 
by the distance contract regulations. However, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Miss K failed in her obligations to protect her security details either intentionally, or 
with gross negligence. So, under the relevant regulations I consider these should 
also be refunded.
I consider this caused Miss K some considerable trouble and upset, especially over 
the allegations that she was using online banking when Miss K said she wasnt. So, I 
consider Santander should pay Miss K £200 compensation.
Miss K accepted my provisional decision. Santander queried why I believed the gambling 
transactions were unauthorised given that any winnings are usually credited to the same 
account and in this case Mrs K received £100.00 from one of the gambling merchants on 20 
December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. 
I agree its unusual for a fraudster to do gambling transactions given the winnings usually go 
back to the account they came from so they might not see any benefit. However, there is 
also the possibility that the gambling merchant realised there was an issue with the 
transaction and refunded it themselves. That is the type of thing I would expect Santander to 
find out for itself too, which it hasnt done here. 
So, this doesnt change my view on the complaint as a whole, given the reasons I gave 
above in my provisional decision namely, the following:
But it seems on balance to me, given the disputed transactions included transactions 
for betting companies, where theres no previous betting transactions on her account; 
a mobile phone top up from a company not connected to Miss K mobile phone 
provider; plus several purchases from a store where Miss K doesnt have an account, 
that its likely the security on her phone was breached sufficiently to receive the 
OPTs sent by Santander for the use of her also stolen card. Given there were also 
attempts to use the card details after Santander had cancelled it, further persuades me the transactions were likely fraudulent and therefore unauthorised under the 
regulations.  Lastly Miss K further took the step of reporting it to the police and 
getting a crime reference number too.
However, the refund amount Santander now needs to pay to Miss K should be less the £100 
refunded by the gambling merchant
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Santander UK Plc to do the following:
Refund the disputed transactions to Miss K adding interest of 8% simple from the 
date of the transactions to the date of its refund (less the £100 refunded by the 
gambling merchant on 20 December 2020). If income tax is to be deducted from the 
interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss K for HMRC 
purposes. 
Pay Miss K the sum of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman