DRN-4374480
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected his claim against it under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. A representative (the CMC) is assisting Mr C with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr C bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded with a loan from BPF, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
made by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr C alleges that the 
supplier misled Mr C into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the complaint 
should be upheld as BPF hadnt been able to provide the sales documentation specific to 
Mr Cs sale showing it had made the cost and benefit clear. So, he thought the complaint 
should be upheld based on Mr Cs testimony. 
BPF disagreed. It highlighted that while it hadnt been able to provide the specific documents 
related to Mr Cs sale, neither had Mr C. BPF also sent in sample documents that the 
suppliers were using, and this showed it did set out the cost and the benefit clearly  which 
would have made it clear the system wouldnt be self- funding. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, I was asked to make a decision.
In my provisional decision of 15 September 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. BPF replied acknowledging the provisional 
decision but had no further comments. Mr C did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Our adjudicator has explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint, and 
considering neither party has disagreed with this, I dont need to consider this any further. 
I think the CMC and BPF ought now to be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-
established approach, as our adjudicators have previously set this out for them. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out again in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that neither BPF nor Mr C have been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time of sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Cs testimony and any other 
documentation either party have been able to submit as well as the wider circumstances. 
Mr C (through his CMC) said, in his letter of claim, that he was led to believe that the system 
would pay for itself in 8 years. This would be due to the income he would receive from the 
power generated by the system and savings made on his energy bills. 
However, beyond this, Mr C has provided no detail as to what exactly he was told about the 
system or why he relied on that information. Weve repeatedly asked Mr C (through the 
CMC) for further information regarding what Mr C remembers from the time of sale  but 
have not received a response. 
So, Mr Cs testimony isnt very specific or detailed regarding what exactly he was promised  
other than mentioning that he thought the system benefits would cover the cost in 8 years. 
For example, he doesnt specify whether the supplier broke down the specific amounts he 
would likely get, hasnt provided any facts and figures mentioned during the sale, and hasnt 
provided the usual documentation we see from this supplier like the estimated returns 
document. In order for me to uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the 
salesperson did more than make generalist comments about how well these solar panels 
usually perform  or that they promoted the system to him - thats the nature of selling items. 
Id need to be satisfied that the salesperson made a specific misrepresentation about Mr Cs 
system, and that he relied on this misrepresentation and bought the system on that basis. 
Ive also thought about the other evidence available in this case. BPF has provided some 
sample documents used by this supplier which does show it set out the benefits and costs 
clearly to its consumers  and this made it clear that the system would not be self-funding.
But Mr C has provided one page of his contract, and this doesnt match the documentation 
supplied by BPF. So, I think its likely that the supplier used a different type of form for Mr Cs 
sale. However, while that may be the case, it does give us an indication as to the suppliers 
sales practices and it does look like, in some cases at least, it did make the cost and benefit 
clear. 
Ive then gone on to think about the wider circumstances of this case. I understand that the 
supplier was trading for a number of years after the sale of Mr Cs system, and Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr C raised this with either the supplier or BPF until 2021. I think if Mr C was 
genuinely disappointed with the benefits he was receiving and expected the benefits to cover 
the cost of the system, when this didnt materialise, I would have expected him to have 
raised this and Ive seen no evidence that he did. I also understand Mr C repaid this loan in 
2018, and even at this stage he doesnt appear to have raised any concerns about the sale 
with BPF. 
I also have to bear in mind that, outside of Mr Cs very brief testimony, there is no other 
evidence from the time of sale that, the supplier was promoting the systems as being self-
funding when Mr C bought his system.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Cs testimony, bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
Mr C has submitted. But having done so, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence 
here that the system was mis-represented to Mr C on the basis it would be self-funding or 
that Mr C relied on a statement like this, and this was the main reason he purchased the 
system. Each case is decided on the individual merits of that case, and on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me 
to uphold this complaint.
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. But considering I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think BPFs decision to not accept the claim was unfair.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So having considered this case again 
in its entirety, Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the 
supplier that induced Mr C to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no 
other reason to uphold this complaint. So, I dont think BPFs decision to not accept the claim 
was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman