DRN-2378232
The complaint
Mr P says Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he 
borrowed increasing amounts from H&T over time. And it also should have been obvious 
from his credit file that he was in financial difficulty. He thinks H&T shouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans H&T provided to Mr P between October 2016 
and December 2017.
loan date taken amountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 04/10/2016 £300 6 16/06/2017
2 05/12/2017 £750 9 23/08/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought H&T should have made better 
checks before approving loan 2. And had it done this it wouldve seen that Mr P would be 
unlikely to be able to repay it sustainably. He thought that H&T shouldnt have approved loan 
2
Mr P accepted our adjudicators findings. H&T didnt respond. So, as no agreement has 
been reached the complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr P accepted our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think there is 
any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about it. But it 
was part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with H&T. So it is something I have taken  
into account when considering the other loans he took.
As our adjudicator explained before both loans Mr P had said that he didnt have any credit 
expenditure. But the information H&T had showed that this was unlikely to be the case. The 
credit reference agency information showed that Mr P was continuing to open credit 
accounts. And had had applied for, but was declined, for 3 loans with H&T when loan 1 was 
in force. And he applied for a further 4 loans, but was again declined, between loans 1 and 
2. 
So I think H&T couldve realised at that time that Mr P may have some longer term financial 
problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary problem. H&T shouldve 
also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ps true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ps financial situation and I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. I dont think H&T did this. 
So I need to think about what H&T wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr P has provided some information about his financial circumstances which included his 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what H&T wouldve seen at the time. But I 
think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mr P was having problems managing his money. Of note is that he had 
borrowed and repaid significant amounts to other short term lenders in the recent past. And 
had been doing this for some time. 
I think that H&T wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. And 
I think H&T wouldve seen Mr P wouldnt have been able repay loan 2 in a sustainable way. 
So I think that H&T shouldnt have given loan 2 to Mr P and I think hes lost out as a result of 
this. So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right
H&T shouldnt have given Mr P loan 2.
A) H&T should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, fees 
and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything it has already refunded.B) H&T should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) H&T should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D) H&T should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to deduct tax from this interest. H&T should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax H&T has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Harvey & Thompson Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman