DRN-3454376
The complaint
Mr W on behalf of Mrs H complains St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) treated her 
unfairly and unreasonably after she claimed on her property insurance policy. Although the 
policy is in Mrs Hs name only, Mr W is her power of attorney and has represented Mrs H in 
her claim and in this complaint. So Ill refer to him throughout my decision.
An Ombudsman issued a decision around September 2021 explaining many of the 
complaint points had been brought too late. So this decision is about the following only. Any 
reference to St Andrews includes its agents. Mr W and Mrs H complain St Andrews:
Left snagging works to be completed within the property.
Didnt assist them in unpacking and sorting Mrs Hs contents after returning them and 
refused to help go through and value items which were beyond economic repair (BER).
Caused delays to the claim process from 17 June 2020.
What happened
Mrs H renewed her property insurance policy in April 2017 for £418.88. Sadly, in 
December 2017, she was admitted to hospital and whilst there, her property suffered water 
damage following severe weather. An insurance claim was registered and she moved into a 
family property. Due to her age and health, Mr W says the claim has impacted her severely. 
A lot has happened in this case and a number of complaints have been raised. St Andrews 
issued final response letters in October 2019, January 2020, June 2020 and July 2020. And 
our service considers only the points dealt with in the last final response have been brought 
in time. So this background will mainly focus on what is relevant to what I can look into.
In January 2018, St Andrews appointed a contractor to carry out works on Mrs Hs property. 
But soon after, they stopped trading and another contractor wasnt appointed until around 
five months later. In the meantime, Mr W says the property developed mould and fungus 
throughout. Due to the further deterioration of the property  including the contents that were 
left there during this time  everything needed to be removed and the property needed to be 
fully dried out and reinstated. Around August 2018, the property was certified as dry. 
Whilst works were ongoing, Mrs Hs belongings were held in storage. And the following year, 
St Andrews asked Mr W to go through the lists of BER items and price them up. This 
included white goods and curtains. St Andrews continued to chase Mr W for this information 
for several months and sent him the lists online to print off.
Once Mrs Hs property was reinstated, her belongings were returned to her property. Mr W 
complains there were over 60 large boxes of items that werent categorised or labelled 
clearly. He said it was too much for him alone to be expected to go through and unpack each 
item  and work out the value of anything that was BER. He thought St Andrews shouldve 
assisted him undertaking this task but it refused. And instead of valuing each item 
individually, he suggested it pay Mrs H an estimated figure of how much her contents might 
be worth based on a number of factors  for example, the size of the property.
Around January 2020, Mr W raised concerns about outstanding snagging issues hed 
noticed. In particular, he highlighted problems with the doors where new carpets had been 
fitted, the grouting, the toilet and, paintwork around the staircase. He also thought 
St Andrews should fit the curtains and blinds as Mrs H wouldnt be able to. St Andrews 
internal notes say a visit to discuss the snagging issues had been arranged in March 2020 
but due to the restrictions in place as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic, it was cancelled. 
So it rearranged it for July 2020 after Mr W made a complaint. Mr W couldnt attend due to 
travel restrictions at the time so it seems the visit was carried out virtually.
Following the visit, St Andrews agreed to fix the outstanding issues and to fit the curtain rails 
and blinds once Mr W provided further details. By August 2021, the contractors said it hadnt 
received anything from Mr W so the curtains and blinds werent fitted.
Unhappy with how things were progressing, Mr W made a complaint. St Andrews said itd 
fixed the snagging issues but refused to assist in reviewing Mrs Hs contents. It 
acknowledged there had been some delay since its previous response in June 2020  in 
particular in dealing with the snagging issues  so it offered £150 as compensation. Mr W 
wasnt happy with this. He highlighted the impact the process had on him, his family and 
Mrs H who he highlighted was displaced from her home. So he asked us to look into things.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think St Andrews was obliged to 
assist Mr W in sorting through or valuing Mrs Hs contents or pay an estimated figure. He 
also thought St Andrews had already put the snagging issues right and paid enough 
compensation to make up for any delays we could look at. St Andrews has given us its 
internal notes including contact notes, correspondence and the policy terms and conditions.
Mr W on behalf of Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators assessment. His response 
mainly related to why he didnt think we should be limiting what we can look into. As the 
complaint wasnt resolved at that stage, it was passed to me to reach a decision on. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March 2022. I didnt think the case should be 
upheld. In summary I said:
I understood why Mr W mightve found going through Mrs Hs contents daunting. But its 
for them to say what the claim is for. And I didnt think it was unusual for the policy terms 
to say the policyholder must provide the value of the items claimed for.
I didnt think St Andrews was obliged to give Mr W the same support and assistance it 
wouldve offered Mrs H if she was dealing with the claim directly. And although it offered 
more support later, I thought it was fair this didnt go ahead as it was no longer needed.
I didnt think the delay to Mrs H being able to return to her property due to her contents 
not being returned or replaced was caused by St Andrews. Instead, I was satisfied Mr W 
hadnt priced up the items  or submitted a claim.
I wasnt satisfied the inconvenience Mr W had described was unreasonable 
inconvenience caused by St Andrews, over and above whats usual in this type of claim.I thought the outstanding snagging issues Mr W had raised had either been completed or 
St Andrews agreed to fix them following the visit in July 2020.
St Andrews isnt obliged to carry out a final inspection or hand over meeting. And I 
wasnt persuaded it was necessary here.
It seemed St Andrews missed there was a problem with the toilet flush when Mr W 
raised it in March 2020 but, he didnt seem to flag it again until approaching our service. 
If the property hadnt been sold, I expected the parties to communicate directly about it. 
I couldnt consider the impact of any delays on Mr W or his family. And I thought 
St Andrews had already offered enough to make up for the delay in the snagging 
inspection considering the time it took and that it didnt make the house uninhabitable. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
St Andrews accepted my provisional decision. Mr W on behalf of Mrs H reiterated what had 
happened and commented on his view of our service. He also said in summary:
Weve set the complaint up against St Andrews instead of the administrator to confuse 
and fragment things. But if it must be against St Andrews, time should start again. 
Mrs Hs property has now been sold without her ever being able to return to it. 
St Andrews wasnt supportive considering his and Mrs Hs age and circumstances.
Our service is biased because weve unnecessarily applied deadlines that only benefit 
St Andrews; our staff are likely to have come from or will go into the financial sector; and 
weve made allowances for St Andrews due to the pandemic but not for him or Mrs H. 
By looking at the issues separately, St Andrews has diluted the seriousness of the 
overall complaint and hasnt offered enough compensation to make up it. 
St Andrews has agreed to replace BER items but hasnt helped in identifying them. It 
also offered to cover travel costs over the phone but now denies it. 
Unless we look at the initial delay with the contractor, we cant reach a fair outcome.
St Andrews has seen all of the information provided by Mr W on behalf of Mrs H but they 
havent seen what St Andrews has sent us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr W on behalf of Mrs H has said in response to my 
provisional decision. And, I still dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ws raised concerns about our service setting up this complaint against St Andrews 
rather than the business hes been dealing with. Id like to reassure him its standard practice 
to look at this type of complaint against the underwriter (which St Andrews is) as it decides 
the terms and is responsible for the claim and how it moves forward. St Andrews remains 
responsible for any complaints although it has agents acting on its behalf. The final response 
letters sent to Mr W say theyve been sent on behalf of St Andrews. So Im not satisfied this 
is a new complaint against a new business or that time should start again.  Im very sorry to hear about the impact this claim has had on Mrs H  and that she wasnt 
able to move back to her property before it was sold. But as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded the delays I can look into were unreasonable or 
caused by St Andrews. 
Mr W thinks our service isnt impartial. But I can assure him, when reaching my outcome on 
his complaint, Ive looked at everything he and St Andrews have given me fairly as Im relied 
on by both parties to give independent answers. It seems from Mr Ws comments, his main 
concern is that were unable to look into all of the complaint points raised. But that isnt 
something I can comment on as another Ombudsman has already decided they were 
brought to our service too late. So I cant reconsider that here.
I understand Mr W thinks St Andrews hasnt done enough to make up for everything Mrs H 
has been through. But as Ive explained, I can only consider whether its done enough to 
make up for the parts of the complaint I can look at  thats the delays since June 2020, 
delays to inspecting the snagging works, and not helping to review the contents. For the 
reasons Ive already given, I dont think St Andrews was obliged to offer Mr W assistance in 
reviewing Mrs Hs contents. And I think its already offered enough to make up for the 
delays. So I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Mr W says the complaint about St Andrews not covering his travel expenses after agreeing 
to do so, is still outstanding. But in the Ombudsmans decision on what we can and cant 
look at, they already explained this wasnt brought to us in time. So I havent considered it. 
I note Mr W says hes not had a chance to review the information sent by St Andrews to us 
and he thinks this is unfair. But I can see the investigator explained throughout what it said  
and Ive done so too. Im not satisfied if hed seen the correspondence, it wouldve made any 
difference to the outcome of this complaint as Ive looked at and considered everything 
provided carefully. But for his peace of mind, Ive asked our investigator to send copies of 
any relevant correspondence to him that hasnt already been provided, following this 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman