DRN-3347001
The complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) have failed to refund money he 
paid to a fraudulent company using his credit card.
What happened
Mr E was contacted by a fraudulent merchant (Wilkins Finance) in June 2018 where he 
was encouraged to invest in cryptocurrency with the promise of a large return. Mr E was in 
frequent contact with account managers at Wilkins Finance who were encouraging him to 
increase his investment by around £4,000, which he paid using three different credit cards.
 Mr E paid the following amounts from his Tesco credit card to the merchant:
Date Payee Amount
21/06/2018 GPay*Exchangetoyour, 
Shen Zhen£196.10 (plus non-sterling 
transaction fee of £5.39
25/06/2018 Fantasticzing, Shen Zhen 
Shigua£801.12 (plus non-sterling 
transaction fee of £22.03)
25/06/2018 Fantasticzing, Shen Zhen 
Shigua£747.70 (plus non-sterling 
transaction fee of £20.56)
Total £1,744.92 (plus non sterling 
transaction fees of £47.98
Mr E was subsequently asked to invest further large sums after making the above payments. 
He started to become suspicious of the merchant after they began encouraging him to take 
out loans in order to make further deposits. Me E subsequently asked to withdraw his money 
but was told he would need to make further deposits in order to do so, at which stage he 
discovered he had been scammed and that his trading account was merely a simulation. 
Mr E contacted Tesco to dispute the transactions. It said there were no rights to proceed 
with a chargeback as Mastercard considers the service as having been provided once the 
funds are deposited into an investment account. It also said it couldnt consider a possible 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) as the funds were 
deposited into an account for use on a trading platform, which couldnt be considered as 
goods or services. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She considered that section 75 did apply, and that 
each payment made by Mr E should be considered a separate deposit transaction under the 
Act. The investigator considered there to be strong grounds for a claim of misrepresentation 
(given the merchant was likely operating fraudulently) so she said Tesco should put Mr E 
back in the position he wouldve been but for the misrepresentation. 
Tesco didnt agree. It didnt consider there to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier link as 
required for section 75 claims as Mr E had contracted with Wilkins Finance, yet had paid a 
company with a different name of which there appears to be no link. Therefore, it said it 
could not be held liable for the misrepresentations given by Wilkins Finance as it had no 
relationship with the fraudulent merchant. Tesco also said that trading was not the securing 
of goods. As it didnt agree, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for the reasons 
set out below, as I dont think Tesco has handed Mr Es section 75 claim fairly. Ill explain 
why. 
In order for a section 75 claim to succeed, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement
Tesco submit that the DCS link has been broken in this instance given that Mr E contracted 
with Wilkins Finance, yet the money was paid to GPay Exchangetoyour and 
Fantasticzing. However, Im not persuaded the chain has been broken. Mr E has provided 
evidence to show that Wilkins Finance sent him an email which included a payment link, 
which he clicked on and used to send his initial deposit to the merchant in order to set up his 
account. 
Mr E has also provided a declaration of deposits form which sets out the amounts he was 
paying to Wilkins Finance (including those transactions made from his Tesco credit card). So 
it seems most likely that the money was in fact sent to Wilkins Finance, albeit with GPay and 
Fantasticzing simply acting as payment processors. Tesco have not provided any evidence 
to demonstrate that these third parties were not acting as payment processors in this 
instance, so Im not persuaded the DCS link has been broken here, as the involvement of a 
payment processor simply created a four party agreement. 
As such, Im satisfied there is nothing here that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain 
between Mr E (the debtor), Tesco (the creditor) and the merchant (the supplier) who 
seemingly obtained the funds by using payment processors. 
A transaction financed by the agreement
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr E has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises here  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction (which Ill refer to as the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75. 
In Mr Es case, there were two further payments made to the merchant after the initial 
deposit transaction, which came about as a result of subsequent deceptive acts on the part 
of the merchant after the initial deposit, promising higher returns if Mr E made further 
deposits. So, Im satisfied that the subsequent payments he made should also be 
considered as separate deposit transactions under section 75.
In terms of whether the transactions were financed by the agreement, this term also isnt 
defined by the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide funds to do something. In 
Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance approaching the matter in a 
common sense way must mean provide financial accommodation in respect ofA credit 
card issuer clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his 
purchases from suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchase under the terms 
of the credit card agreement.  
So, applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr E had not used his credit card, he wouldve 
had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit and obtain the investment 
account that he was seemingly entitled to. Therefore, Im satisfied the deposit transactions 
were financed by the agreement.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. So, its important to consider what Mr Es 
claim is here. Its evident from his testimony that he feels he was tricked into depositing the 
initial and subsequent payments with the merchant for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr E to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr E does not believe that the merchant was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking it was.
This claim  that Mr E was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Mr E was told by the merchant matters that were factually untrue in order to 
trick him into entering into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of that transaction and went on to 
breach these that would make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of each deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
the merchant has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit. And it is important 
to note that section 75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there 
anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
So, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions Mr E has made. Ive therefore considered whether Mr E has a valid 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider that Mr E has made a claim of misrepresentation by the merchant  that claim 
being that it represented to him it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr E into entering into an agreement. 
(i) A false statement of fact
Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise, i.e. one 
in which Mr E could have ever received back more money than he deposited. It therefore 
follows that any statements made by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr E could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Es account of events and the nature of the 
situation, the merchant did claim that he could have made money from the trading platform.
(ii) That induced him into entering the agreement
If Mr E had known that the trading platform he was using was essentially a scam designed to 
steal the investors money, theres little doubt that he would not have proceeded with his 
investment with Wilkins Finance. Tesco have questioned Mr Es testimony regarding the 
merchant operating a scam, so Ive considered the evidence to determine whether the 
merchant was likely operating a scam.
Mr E has provided detailed testimony about his experience with Wilkins Finance and how he 
has been scammed out of his money, which I find to be plausible and compelling. And in 
addition to this, it is also corroborated not just by other complaints of this nature, but other 
specific complaints against Wilkins Finance. As a result, I find his account to be truthful. 
Mr E says he was approached by Wilkins Finance with the investment opportunity, which 
instantly gives cause for concern as this would not be the usual practice of a legitimate and 
regulated broker. The tactics Mr E has described also sound typical of a scam, i.e. being told 
by the merchant that his investment had made profit while he was still investing money, but 
then suddenly disappearing when he asked for his funds to be returned. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the same 
tactics used by the merchant. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual 
trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the 
merchant was offering little more than a simulation.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
applying for credit - as the merchant did here - to invest in highly speculative products that 
could lose money. Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a 
complaint repeated across many complaints against similar firms. Seemingly the merchant 
has simply stopped responding to Mr E.
So, within Mr Es account of events and the evidence he has provided, theres a strong basis 
for concluding that the merchant was not operating a legitimate exercise.
There is also further evidence in the form of warnings placed online by reputable scam 
watch websites and forums that warn investors about Wilkins Finance, which includes 
accounts of other victims that have shared similar experiences to that of Mr E. In addition, at 
the time Mr E made his payments, they were required to be regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, which they were not, and neither can I see that they were regulated or 
licensed in any other jurisdiction either, which is also strong evidence that they were 
operating fraudulently. 
Having considered all of this together, I dont think its likely the merchant was operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think it has made misrepresentations to Mr E  
specifically that the merchant was running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever 
have got back more than his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr E had 
known this, he wouldnt have deposited any money, meaning he was therefore induced into 
the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Consequential losses
Ive also considered whether Mr E has a valid claim against Tesco for the loss he incurred 
through the international transaction fees that were charged as a result of the deposit 
transactions. Where a person has been fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction 
through misrepresentation, they are entitled to recover from the wrongdoer all the damage 
directly flowing from that transaction (so long as it was the direct consequence of said 
transaction).In Mr Es case, if the deposit transactions had not occurred, the transaction fee would not 
have occurred. The transaction fee can therefore be considered a direct consequence of the 
deposit transaction. And given the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable 
that a bank used by Mr E to make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. 
So, Im satisfied Mr Es payment of the transaction fee was a consequential loss in 
misrepresentation.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr E has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that the 
merchant made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate 
enterprise and that Mr E could access his money freely and earn a profit from his deposit 
transactions. Im also satisfied the deposit transaction fees meet the test for consequential 
loss in misrepresentation, as it wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit transaction. 
It was also a direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit transaction. 
Given that Mr E has a claim for misrepresentation, I dont consider it necessary to determine 
whether he would also have a claim for breach of contract (given the former also tends to 
provide the highest sum of redress with consequential losses). Tesco should therefore put 
Mr E back into the position he wouldve been had the deposit transactions of £1,744.92 not 
been entered into and the transaction fees of £47.98 had not been charged. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to refund Mr Es deposit transactions and transactions fees, plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transactions
Refund the transaction fees; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid by Mr E to the date of 
settlement.
If Tesco deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide 
Mr E with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman