DRN-4002795
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs B complain that Santander UK plc withdrew its offer of a mortgage and 
recorded information about them on a fraud prevention database.
What happened
In February 2022, through a broker, Mr M and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Santander. 
They wanted to buy the property they were renting. Santander issued a mortgage offer, but 
then withdrew it a few weeks later. 
Mr M and Mrs B considered applying again for a mortgage, but found that Santander had 
recorded information about them on a fraud prevention database. In June 2022, they 
complained.
Santander said it would review its decision if Mr M and Mrs B could provide various 
additional information about their finances, including payslips, P60s and bank statements. 
Mr M and Mrs B provided all of this twice, but heard nothing from Santander. In October 
2022, they referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator recommended that Santander remove the fraud markers and pay Mr M and 
Mrs B £350 compensation. 
Mr M and Mrs B pointed out that Santander had offered them a mortgage, but interest rates 
had since risen significantly. They said their landlord was still prepared to sell the property to 
them, but if they were to re-apply for a mortgage now it would cost them a lot more. They 
have also had to continue paying rent for far longer than they should, when they could have 
been paying a mortgage instead. They wanted Santander to reinstate the offer it had made 
in February 2022, which was to lend them the amount they had applied for at a fixed interest 
rate of 1.59% until 2 May 2027.
Santander said it still thought there were some inconsistencies in the financial information 
provided to it in Mr Ms and Mrs Bs application in 2022, and on that basis it was entitled to 
withdraw its offer of a mortgage. It said it would, however, honour the fixed rate product it 
had offered Mr M and Mrs B in February 2022, subject to a fresh application and its 
consideration of their current circumstances and financial information. It said it would also 
remove the fraud markers and pay £350 compensation. 
Our Investigator thought that was fair in the circumstances, but Mr M and Mrs B did not. 
They didnt want to have to go through the application process again after what had 
happened the first time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt obliged to lend to Mr M and Mrs B, and it was entitled to carry out various 
checks before deciding whether or not to offer them a mortgage. Mr M and Mrs B have 
explained that they are both salaried employees but they both also have income from self-
employment. The details of their self-employment and resulting income werent included in 
their mortgage application, so I think its understandable that Santander had concerns about 
some of the information provided to it.
However, I think those concerns ought reasonably to have been apparent to Santander 
before it issued a mortgage offer to Mr M and Mrs B. I note that the offer document did 
provide at Part B for Santander to withdraw the offer in certain circumstances, including if it 
found out that you have intentionally provided us with false, inaccurate or incomplete 
information as part of your application for the loan or omitted information which we have 
requested from you. But I think Santander should have carried out the checks it wanted to 
do before, not after, issuing the offer. 
Santander has now agreed to remove the markers it recorded on fraud prevention 
databases in connection with Mr Ms and Mrs Bs mortgage application, and I think thats fair. 
It has also offered to pay Mr M and Mrs B £350 by way of compensation. Mr M and Mrs B 
indicated that they would accept that, and I think its fair in recognition of their upset, 
inconvenience and disappointment.
The only remaining matter for me to decide is whether Santander should reinstate its 
February 2022 mortgage offer. I can understand some reluctance on Mr Ms and Mrs Bs 
part to go through the process of re-applying for a mortgage, given how their last application 
turned out. But I think its important for Mr M and Mrs B, as well as for Santander, to be 
satisfied that the mortgage is still appropriate and affordable. I therefore find, after careful 
consideration, that Santanders offer to honour the terms of its February 2022 mortgage offer 
subject to its consideration and approval of a fresh application from Mr M and Mrs B is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I consider a fair and reasonable settlement is for Santander to:
- honour the terms of the 22 February 2022 mortgage offer it issued to Mr M and Mrs B, 
subject to its consideration and approval of a fresh mortgage application, including 
receipt of any relevant documents it requires from Mr M and Mrs B;
- remove all markers it has recorded on fraud prevention databases in connection with 
Mr Ms and Mrs Bs February 2022 mortgage application, if it hasnt already done so; and
- pay Mr M and Mrs B £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman