DRN-3080030
The complaint
Mr B acquired 10 household fixtures in August 2018, by means of a 96-month fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited. These fixtures were installed in October 2018. He 
complains that the fixtures were not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr B wants Shawbrook to agree that the fixtures should be rejected and removed, and that 
his agreement should be cancelled, with all payments he has made reimbursed. He also 
wants reimbursement of all the out of pocket expenses that he has already incurred, and that 
he will incur in making good after the fixtures have been removed.  He wants compensation 
as well for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 January 2021, as follows.
 
Background
The fixtures cost just over £9,000. Mr B paid a deposit of £199, with the remaining cost 
financed through his fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
The supplier told us:
Following installation of the fixtures, Mr B contacted it and some remedial works were 
agreed. It also agreed to make a payment of £450 to Mr B. Mr B signed a satisfaction 
note in November 2018.  
Mr B complained to it in January 2019 that three of the fixtures were not functioning 
properly. It inspected these fixtures, two of which it said were not faulty, and an 
adjustment was made to the third fixture. 
Mr B did not find this outcome satisfactory, and in February 2020 it agreed to remake 
one of these fixtures and its associated components. But the remade fixture, when 
delivered, was found to have been ordered incorrectly. The remade fixture was fitted 
temporarily, while a new fixture was ordered.
The Covid19 lockdown meant that its manufacturing and installation work was 
suspended for four months, with a phased return to normal working from July 2020.   
It was contacted by Mr B in September 2020, who made a further complaint about 
the fixtures installed. 
Mr Bs availability was limited, and it arranged with him to install the new fixture in 
October 2020. But the new fixture, when delivered, was found to have been 
manufactured incorrectly, and could not be installed.
It understood that Shawbrook was told by Mr B in early November 2020 that he no 
longer wanted it to carry out further work, and that he wanted to find another supplier. 
It also understood that Mr B had subsequently brought to Shawbrooks attention 
further issues, which he had not raised with it.
It contacted Mr B in early November 2020, to tell him that a correctly manufacturer 
new fixture was due to be available for delivery in mid-November. Mr B explained 
that he had emailed it during the lockdown, to raise these further issues. But it had 
been unable to respond to these emails at the time, because its premises were 
closed.
Mr B agreed and signed a new schedule of works, relating to most of the fixtures, 
and to associated works undertaken during installation. It told him that it would need 
to have the associated works inspected before proceeding, because a complaint 
about them had not previously been made. It had difficulty in understanding why Mr B 
had not complained earlier in the two years since the associated works had been 
completed, or why he had chosen to raise this matter with Shawbrook and not with it.
Mr B also agreed a Saturday in early December 2020 for the new fixture to be 
delivered and installed. But he did not subsequently agree a date for the required 
inspection, despite being asked several times to do so.
It understood that Mr B then told Shawbrook that, in order to enable access for the 
associated works, a garden fixture (erected after its household fixtures had been 
installed) would need to be dismantled, and some specified internal fixtures would 
need to be removed. He said he could arrange these enabling actions to be 
completed, at a cost of a little over £750 for materials plus labour, before the agreed 
schedule of works was started.    
It received from Shawbrook in early December 2020 a quotation of £2,500 for the 
enabling actions labour costs. It told Shawbrook that it would not accept liability for 
the cost of enabling actions, until the associated works had been inspected and Mr B 
had quantified his losses.  
It was told by Mr B in early December 2020 that he was unable to take any time off 
work during the Christmas period, and so could only provide access on Saturdays.   
It understood that Mr B complained to Shawbrook in mid-December 2020 about the 
new fixture. It phoned him on the same day to arrange a service visit. During the call, 
he told it that he had dismantled the garden fixture. 
Mr B complained to Shawbrook in September 2020. 
Mr B said the fixtures as initially installed were unsatisfactory and, despite many subsequent 
attempts, the supplier had not yet corrected matters. Shawbrook responded to him in 
January 2021, upholding his complaint.
Shawbrook noted that it had been in regular contact with both Mr B and the supplier, 
attempting to reach a solution suitable for all parties involved. It felt that progress was being 
made, and that the best way forward would be to allow the supplier to remediate, which 
would protect Mr Bs warranty. 
But Shawbrook appreciated that Mr B was no longer willing to wait, and that he wanted to 
escalate his complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld:
He noted that all parties agreed that problems exist with Mr Bs installed household 
fixtures
He was satisfied that there has been enough time and opportunity for remedial work 
to have been completed, given the fixtures were initially installed in October 2018 
He felt it was understandable that Mr B no longer trusts the supplier to provide a 
satisfactory service, and so he does not want the supplier to carry out further work at 
his home
Given remedial works were still outstanding, he considered that trying to engage with 
the supplier to complete them could lead to more distress and inconvenience for 
Mr B, and so he did not believe this would be a fair and reasonable resolution of the 
dispute     
At Mr Bs suggestion, our investigator explored with Shawbrook whether it and the supplier 
would agree to another supplier taking over the repair work. But this way forward was 
rejected.
In these circumstances, our investigator concluded that Mr B should be allowed to reject the 
goods, and to cancel his agreement. But, in the absence of independent information to 
confirm that the enabling actions identified by Mr B were required, our investigator did not 
think that Shawbrook should be required to pay the costs quoted by Mr B relating to his 
garden fixture. 
Although our investigator did agree with Mr B that he should be reimbursed for the costs of 
redecorating after the suppliers fixtures had been removed (and replaced by another 
suppliers fixtures).
Our investigator recommended that Shawbrook should: 
End Mr Bs agreement with nothing further to pay, and refund all payments made to 
date 
Arrange for all the household fixtures to be removed, at no cost to Mr B
Pay Mr B £300 for distress and inconvenience
Pay Mr B the costs of redecorating as a result of the faulty repairs by the supplier 
Mr B agreed with our investigator. But Shawbrook did not, saying:
Mr B agreed and signed a new schedule of works in early November 2020
The supplier should be allowed to complete the schedule of works, relating to which it 
had already incurred costs  and rejection should only be considered if the 
completed works were found to be unsatisfactory
 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Shawbrook has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable 
person would have regarded the goods as satisfactory, at the point of supply, taking into 
account all relevant circumstances. In particular, when the installation of these goods had 
been completed, they were not exhibiting faults, or developing faults they would later exhibit.
I concurred with our investigator that all parties have agreed that problems exist with Mr Bs 
installed household fixtures. And so, these problems fell within Shawbrooks responsibilities.  It appeared that Mr B had received sub-standard customer service from the supplier. A 
complaint he made in January 2019 did not appear to have been fully addressed until 
February 2020, when the supplier agreed to remake a fixture. But the remade fixture was not 
a correct replacement, although it was fitted temporarily.
Delays largely associated with the Covid19 lockdown meant that the next attempt to install a 
correct replacement did not take place until October 2020. And then the new fixture was 
again not a correct replacement.  
So, I sympathised with Mr B. But this complaint was against Shawbrook and not the supplier. 
And, while Shawbrook was responsible for the quality of the suppliers goods, it was not 
responsible for the suppliers customer service.
I found that Mr B consented to repairs being undertaken, to address the problems he 
identified in his complaint to Shawbrook, when he agreed and signed (in November 2020) a 
schedule of works prepared by the supplier. It would then have been fair and reasonable to 
allow him to reject the goods, if they were still of unsatisfactory quality after the repairs had 
been completed, or if the supplier had failed to complete the repairs in a reasonable time 
period.
The supplier needed access to Mr Bs home, in order to undertake the repairs. I also found 
the suppliers need to inspect the associated works before proceeding to be fair and 
reasonable, for the reasons it had given (which were summarised above).  
I could appreciate that Mr Bs employment commitments sometimes made access to his 
home limited. But if access continued to be limited, then in order to be fair to the supplier, its 
reasonable period for completing the repairs would need to be extended.
My provisional settlement recommendations
I concurred with our investigator that Mr B should be reimbursed for the costs of 
redecorating after the suppliers repairs had been completed. This sat within Shawbrooks 
responsibilities, as a direct consequence of the unsatisfactory quality of the installed goods. 
Mr B would need to agree in advance with Shawbrook how quotations for the above work 
should be obtained, and pre-authorisation given. 
I concurred as well with our investigators view that Shawbrook should not be required to pay 
the costs quoted by Mr B relating to his garden fixture. Mr B had this fixture dismantled, 
before either the supplier had a chance to assess it, or any independent information could be 
gathered about its dismantling or replacement. Mr B accepted our investigators view, and I 
would have found it very difficult to change this outcome.
But there may have been some specified internal fixtures that needed to be removed, to 
enable the suppliers repairs to be undertaken. And any costs of doing so that were incurred 
by Mr B should be treated in the same way as those for redecorating.  
There are technical notes about distress and inconvenience on our public website, in which 
we describe:
how we decide whether to award compensation for distress, inconvenience, trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded compensationI felt that compensation of £300 in this instance (as recommended by our investigator) was 
appropriate, given the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. It was consistent with our 
approach to awarding compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I 
received from Mr B or Shawbrook Bank Limited, my provisional decision was that I upheld 
this complaint. 
My provisional settlement recommendations were that Shawbrook should:
Facilitate the completion of repairs in the November 2020 schedule of works, agreed 
by Mr B with the supplier 
Reimburse Mr B for authorised expenditure, relating to the removal of any specific 
internal fixtures needed to enable repairs by the supplier, and relating to 
redecoration after repairs by the supplier have been completed  the method of pre-
authorisation to be agreed in advance between Mr B and Shawbrook
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience directly to Mr B
Responses to my conclusions
Shawbrook responded, agreeing with my provisional findings and settlement 
recommendations. But Mr B did not agree, saying;
The supplier installed goods that were not fit for purpose
He was willing initially to give the supplier the benefit of the doubt, and to allow it to 
carry out repairs to (and replacements of) these goods
But these repairs/replacements have not led to an acceptable outcome, and he is 
unwilling to risk things going wrong again 
In short, he no longer trusts the supplier to achieve an installation of satisfactory 
quality
He wants  
ohis agreement to be cancelled, and all monies he has paid to be returned to 
him 
othe supplier to pay him compensation of £300 (as included in my provisional 
settlement recommendations)
othe suppliers goods removed from his home as soon as possible, to enable a 
different supplier to install new fixtures
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I recognised that significant problems existed with Mr Bs 
installed household fixtures, and that these problems fell within Shawbrooks responsibilities. 
But I also found that Mr B consented to repairs being undertaken, to address the problems 
he identified in his complaint to Shawbrook, when he agreed and signed (in November 2020) 
a schedule of works prepared by the supplier  and Mr B has not challenged this finding.
In my provisional decision, I found as well that it would be fair and reasonable to allow Mr B 
to reject the goods, if they were still of unsatisfactory quality after the above repairs had 
been completed, or if the supplier failed to complete these repairs in a reasonable time 
period.Mr B clearly does not want, in his words, to risk things going wrong again. But he has not 
offered arguments why an agreement, which he signed about two months before he referred 
his complaint to us, should be disregarded. 
Putting things right
I need to note once more that this complaint is against Shawbrook, and not the supplier. 
Shawbrook could still become liable for the consequences of unsatisfactory or unreasonably 
delayed repairs. 
But, in the circumstances of this complaint, my view remains that it is fair and reasonable to 
allow the supplier one further chance to achieve an acceptable outcome. This is because I 
have seen nothing to suggest that my provisional settlement recommendations should be 
changed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Shawbrook Bank Limited:
1. To facilitate the completion of repairs in the November 2020 schedule of works, 
agreed by Mr B with the supplier 
2. To reimburse Mr B for authorised expenditure, relating to the removal of any specific 
internal fixtures needed to enable repairs by the supplier, and relating to 
redecoration after repairs by the supplier have been completed  the method of pre-
authorisation to be agreed in advance between Mr B and Shawbrook
3. To pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience directly to Mr B
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman