DRN-3802923
The complaint
Miss Zs complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss Z has found the situation with her account frustrating. She has 
explained she spends time overseas and that when she was asked to visit a bank branch 
this wasnt possible as she was overseas at the time and then due to Covid restrictions 
wasnt able to travel back to the UK for a period of time. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclays had done something wrong or treated 
Miss Z unfairly. In this case I do not find this has happened and I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Barclays sent Miss Z a message on 5 October 2019 as a block was applied to her 
debit card. While I understand this would have been frustrating for Miss Z, Barclays 
has a duty of care towards its customers and where activity on an account raises 
concerns then it is reasonable that it will take action. In this case, a transaction was 
flagged by its fraud team and so the card was blocked, and a message sent to 
Miss Z. I find this reasonable.
Miss Z says that she was overseas and couldnt visit a branch to unblock her 
account. However, Barclays has explained that in these situations the customer can 
also call the appropriate team to go through the process of having the block 
removed. It has explained that it has no record of Miss Z calling it in 2019 and while 
Miss Z has noted an online exchange with the bank this was in July 2020. Therefore, 
I cannot see that Miss Z tried to contact Barclays to have the block on her card 
removed in 2019. 
Miss Zs debit card had an expiry date of August 2020. A new debit card was 
requested and issued in May 2022. There is a two-year gap between the debit cards 
and Barclays has explained this was due to the debit card (expiry date August 2020) 
not being used for over a year. Barclays has explained that Miss Z would have been 
contacted about this and has sent information about the contact made in these 
situations. A new debit card was issued in May 2022 and I am not aware of any 
issues with this. Therefore, I do not find I have enough to say that Barclays did 
anything wrong in relation to Miss Zs debit card.
Miss Z has provided screenshots of an exchange with Barclays about online access 
from July 2020. Barclays has explained that it would not block anyone from 
accessing online banking if their debit card is blocked but that it might limit the 
options of how to login. Having looked at the screenshots provided it isnt clear what 
the issue with the access is and Barclays has no further record of Miss Z contacting it 
about this issue or any other issue relating to her debit card at that time. Therefore, I 
cannot comment on this further. I do however note that Miss Z does have access to 
her online banking at present. 
Miss Z says her issues started when her card was blocked in October 2019 but as I 
do not find I can say this was applied incorrectly or that Miss Z wasnt given 
reasonable options to contact Barclays for the block to be removed, I do not find I 
can uphold this complaint.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman