DRN-2860013
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service that TSB Bank plc provided when he called them to find out
why a transaction he was trying to make was being declined.  
What happened
Mr S attempted to make a transfer from his TSB account to pay for a car that he was buying
from a car retail company. However, the transfer was declined. Mr S called TSB and spoke
with an advisor and was told that the issue was resolved and to try to make the payment
again.
Mr S tried to make the transfer again, but again the transfer was declined. Mr S called TSB
for a second time and spoke to an advisor and was told that the issue was resolved and that
he could now make the payment. But when Mr S tried to make the transfer following this
second call, the transfer was again declined.
Mr S called TSB for a third time and spoke to an agent who this time asked Mr S to try the
transfer again while he was on the phone to them. This time, the transfer was successful.
However, Mr S wasnt happy that hed had to call back three times to resolve this issue, so
he made a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they noted that the transfer had been flagged as
suspicious by their automated potential fraud monitoring system, and they felt that they had
been right to decline the transaction until they could confirm that Mr S was indeed
authorising it. And, while they acknowledged that Mr S had had to call three times before the
transfer would go through, they didnt feel that this was unduly excessive so as to warrant
any form of financial compensation.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that, while Mr S had been
inconvenienced, it wasnt to a degree that would warrant financial compensation. So, they
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 May 2021 on this complaint as follows:
TSB have explained that they use an automated potential fraud detection system 
which will prevent any transactions from going through which are triggered as being 
of potential concern by that system. This type of system is used extensively by 
financial institutions to protect their customers against potential fraud.
The issue here isnt the use of an automated potential fraud detection system, but 
rather than Mr Ss transfer wasnt acknowledged as being authorised by TSB when 
he first contacted them and confirmed to them that he wanted to make the payment.
TSB have stated that, if a payment is high risk, it can be the case that the system will 
flag it again, even if a customer has called in and given their authority for the 
payment to go ahead. TSB have also said that they cannot pre-determine if the 
system will re-flag a transaction, and that when Mr S called following the payment 
being declined for the second time, the payment was whitelisted to ensure that it 
subsequently went through.
I can understand TSBs position here, to a degree, although given that all automated
systems operate using a series of pre-defined parameters, Im not convinced thats 
its accurate to say that it cant be pre-determined if the system in question will re-flag 
a transaction for a second time, but rather that the degree of functionality needed for 
TSB staff to know whether a transaction will be declined for a second time isnt 
present.
However, given that a degree of doubt exists for TSB staff as to whether a payment 
will be repeat declined by the automated system, it would have been preferable if the 
first or second TSB staff member that Mr S spoke to took the time to ensure Mr Ss 
payment would go through in the same manner that the third staff member that Mr S 
spoke to did, such that Mr S wasnt inconvenienced any more than was necessary.
TSB have also explained that following the second call from Mr S the payment was
whitelisted to ensure that it would go through. But this is precisely what Mr S called 
up the first time to ensure, and so its unclear why this process wasnt followed in the 
first instance, such that Mr S wasnt inconvenienced by having to call again.
And Mr S was inconvenienced here, and I feel that he was inconvenienced beyond 
what was reasonably necessary, given the situation.
It follows then that I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour and
instructing TSB to make a payment to Mr S of £25 to compensate Mr S for the 
inconvenience he has incurred.  
In my provisional decision I gave both Mr S and TSB the opportunity to provide any 
comments of further information that they wished me to consider. TSB didnt respond to my 
provisional decision, whereas Mr S confirmed that he was happy to accept the provisional 
decision and had nothing further to add.
As such, I see no reason why my final decision shouldnt be a confirmation of my provisional 
decision as explained above, and I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour on that 
basis.
Putting things right
TSB must make a payment of £25 to Mr S to compensate him for the trouble and upset that 
hes incurred.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman