DRN-1286224
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional, but that they 
still chose to take it. I can see that there was a separate application form for PPI, which set 
out the monthly benefit and the fact this would be split 50/50 between Mr and Mrs T. So this 
suggests there was some discussion, even if Mr and Mrs T not surprisingly dont now 
remember, so many years later. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Cs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Cs situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs C received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs C would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs C in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these.
 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs C to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr and Mrs C took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were 
greater than Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay, and I dont have clear evidence of their savings at the 
time  and in any case they could have kept any savings in reserve for longer. Also the cost 
wasnt significantly high. So its unlikely better information would have made the PPI seem 
less useful.
So the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs T because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman