DRN-3230409
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with how John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) has dealt with her 
request for a refund of payments she made for a holiday using her JLFS credit card.
 
Miss Es complaint is being dealt with by her representative, Mrs E. For simplicity, I will refer 
to Miss E throughout.
What happened
In September 2019, Miss E booked an overseas trip through a travel agent Ill call T. The 
booking included flights, accommodation, insurance, and an excursion. Miss E paid for the 
booking using her JLFS credit card. She told us the total cost of this trip was £1,225.10. She 
also gave us copies of her booking confirmation. This included an ATOL (Air Travel 
Organisers Licence) certificate. These showed that, while T was the travel agent, the actual 
supplier of the trip was a company Ill call E.
 
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, T ceased trading. Miss E told us that as the holiday was 
ATOL protected, she reasonably expected to receive information from either T or ATOL 
about what would happen next. Miss E said that, after hearing nothing for 10 days, she re-
booked her trip with another business who Ill call TA.
 
Miss E went on to say that a few days later she received an email from E telling her that the 
original trip booked through T was still going ahead. Miss E said she called E but wasnt able 
to speak to anyone. She told us she then spoke to TA about the email from E and was told it 
sounded like a scam email. 
Miss E said she then made a refund claim through Ts website but received an email on 
behalf of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), who operates the ATOL scheme, saying she 
wasnt entitled to a refund under the scheme. So, Miss E then asked JLFS for a refund under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
 
JLFS didnt think Miss E was due a refund as the trip booked through T was still available for 
her to use. It asked her to provide proof of why she was unable to make use of that holiday 
booking. Miss E wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. In brief, he didnt think JLFS had 
handled the refund request incorrectly. But he noted that JLFS had offered to pay Miss E 
£75 as it felt some of its communications with her could have been clearer. Our investigator 
asked Miss E if she wanted to accept this offer.
 
Miss E didnt accept it. She questioned why, when she rebooked the trip through TA, her 
existing booking through T didnt show up, even though the new trip was for the same 
departure date, using the same hotel and the same airline. As Miss E wasnt happy with our 
investigators view of this complaint, it was passed to me to review.
 
To try and resolve matters informally, our investigator passed on my initial thoughts to 
Miss E. These set out that I was satisfied the holiday wasnt cancelled when T ceased 
trading and was always available for Miss E to take. I was also satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for JLFS not to accept her S75 claim. The investigator also pointed out that 
complaints about Miss Es ATOL claim didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
 
Miss E didnt accept this and asked for a formal decision. So, Ive moved to issue such a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking JLFS to do, or pay, anything more than its already offered. 
Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: has JLFS dealt with 
Miss Es request for a refund fairly and reasonably?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. As above, 
Ive considered all the available evidence. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point or argument to reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do 
this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
I can see Miss E has raised concerns not just about the actions of JLFS, but also about the 
operation of the ATOL protection scheme. This is operated by the CAA. I want to make it 
clear here that this complaint is only looking at the actions of JLFS. Im not looking at the 
actions of the CAA, nor is our service able to do so separately.
 
Thats because of the rules our service must follow. These are published by the Financial 
Conduct Authority under the title DISP. These rules are freely available online. DISP 
includes, among other things, rules about what businesses and what activities fall within our 
jurisdiction. I cant ignore them. They arent optional.
 
Quite simply, the CAA doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of our service. I fully understand that 
Miss E is very unhappy the ATOL scheme hasnt given her a refund in her situation. But 
thats not something I have the power to look at. Nor is it something I can hold JLFS 
responsible for and, as above, Im only looking at the actions of JLFS here.
 
Similarly, Miss E has questioned why her previous booking didnt show up when she 
rebooked her trip through TA  even though it was the same departure date, same hotel, 
and same airline. Again, none of this is the responsibility of JLFS and, to repeat myself, this 
complaint is only looking at what actions JLFS is responsible for. 
Ill now turn to the actions of JLFS. When Miss E asked JLFS to refund the payments shed 
made for her trip, there are two possible avenues I would expect it to look at  raising a 
chargeback and looking at a S75 claim. 
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers such as JLFS and merchants. These disputes are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules. In certain circumstances, this process provides a way for JLFS to ask a 
merchant, such as T, to give Miss E a refund. These circumstances would include where 
goods or services werent supplied. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. Its also important to point out that JLFS is under 
no obligation to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback 
to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success. In this case, notwithstanding that T had ceased trading, the trip Miss E booked through T was 
actually being provided by E. As such, it wasnt affected by Ts closure and was always 
available for her to take. 
Indeed, JLFS pointed this out to Miss E. So, I can understand why it didnt think there was a 
reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding. It follows that Im satisfied JLFS didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing a chargeback for Miss E. 
Ill now turn to the S75 claim. S75 sets out that in certain conditions, as the provider of the 
finance used to purchase the goods or services, Miss E has a like claim against JLFS for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
 
One of these conditions is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship between the parties. In this case, the creditor was JLFS and the debtor was 
Miss E. But E was the supplier of the goods and services. I can see from booking summary 
that the contract for the trip was with E. Similarly, Ive also looked at the ATOL certificate. 
Again, this shows the supplier was E. 
There needs to be a direct unbroken link between all three parties for Miss E to be eligible to 
make a claim under S75. Here payment for the goods or services wasnt made to the 
supplier, E. From this, Im satisfied there isnt an unbroken link between Miss E, JLFS and E 
as she didnt make any payments for her trip to E. It follows that I dont think JLFS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not pursuing a S75 claim for Miss E.
 
In any event, as I stated above in relation to chargeback, the trip Miss E booked through T  
the accommodation, flights etc - was always available for her to take. Ultimately, as Miss E 
told us, she assumed that as T had ceased trading, all holidays and trips were cancelled. I 
can fully understand why she might have thought that, and I do empathise with the situation 
she found herself in and how thats continued to affect her. But, none of that is the 
responsibility of JLFS and, to repeat myself once more, its only those responsibilities that 
Im able to look at here.
 
I note that JLFS has offered to pay Miss E £75 as it feels some of its communication with her 
could have been better. This didnt affect whether there was any basis for JLFS to give 
Miss E a refund. So, its for her to decide if she would now like to accept this offer.
 
In summary, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think JLFS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not giving Miss E a refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Im not asking John 
Lewis Financial Services Limited to do, or pay, more than the £75 its already offered.
 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means we are unable to consider the complaint further, nor enter into any correspondence 
or discussion about the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman