DRN-2219796
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hanley Economic Building Society refused his mortgage application for 
one late payment on his credit file. Mr H wants Hanley to apologise, refund the £349 
application fee and tighten up its procedures.
What happened
Mr H made a mortgage application to Hanley at the end of September 2019 on a new build 
property that he hoped to buy. Mr H says that shortly after making the application the lender 
signed off on the credit check but then several weeks later declined the application for one 
missed payment on his credit file. This took three and a half weeks and if Mr H had been told 
earlier, he would have been in a better position to try and put in place another mortgage. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. His view was that 
Hanley was entitled to make additional enquiries before coming to its assessment and that 
the process wasnt prolonged. Mr H disagreed and asked for a review. Mr H refers to an 
email from Hanley where it refused to investigate his complaint on the basis of their claim 
that there was no complaint to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main element of this complaint relates to the delay in coming to a decision on Mr Hs 
application which was ultimately unsuccessful. Mr H understood that the credit check was 
signed off on at the end of September but then was told several weeks later that the 
application was refused because a missed payment was found on his credit file.
 Mr H made an application for a mortgage on 27 September 2019. I understand that at that 
stage a soft credit assessment was done partly based on Mr Hs responses to some credit 
related questions including whether Mr H had any arrears on any credit agreement. Mr H 
replied no to that. The application then moved on but at a later stage when the application 
was considered by an underwriter, the application was refused.
Hanley has provided us with a history of the assessment of the application. It seems that by 
9 October Hanley had got a valuation and then assessed a credit report it had obtained 
earlier. That report showed up an amount of unsecured debts including mail order, credit 
card and loans, although Mr H had a mortgage of only £37,000. That seems to have sparked 
an enquiry as to how Mr H managed his finances which seems to me relevant in the context 
of granting a larger loan on a long-term basis. That enquiry prolonged the application 
assessment period. 
Hanley had questions which seem to me relevant to a consideration of this application. 
During the period from 9 October until 25 October I see that there are communications  
between Mr H and Hanley in which Mr H supplies the information requested but after 
assessing the information, the application was then declined. I think it was only fair to Mr H 
that Hanley conducted this assessment even if it meant his application was eventually 
declined. Clearly Hanley didnt believe that it had adequate information to come to an 
assessment on 9 October. This may have prolonged the application process, but I dont 
consider that was unfair. 
My view is that Hanley processed the application in a reasonable time period. During the 
assessment process the underwriter raised several reasonable queries which took Mr H a 
little time to respond to. These werent irrelevant and its only reasonable for Hanley to 
accumulate information before coming to an assessment of it. So, I dont consider there was 
unreasonable delay. 
I also dont consider that Hanleys decision to decline the application was unfair. It seems to 
have assembled all relevant information and looked at the application in the round. I dont 
agree that the application was declined simply through one late payment. But the application 
process clearly threw up questions about how Mr H managed his finances. Thats a relevant 
consideration for Hanley and the Society is entitled to decide on a commercial basis after 
making its assessment, that it didnt wish to lend to lend to Mr H. I appreciate that the decline 
was a blow to Mr H, but my view is that Hanleys decision was arrived at fairly and within a 
reasonable timeframe and, so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
I note that Mr H says that Hanley didnt investigate his complaint and refers to an email 
Hanley sent him. Mr H also says that our investigator failed to address this. Hanleys email of 
25 October 2019, its final response letter, simply says that Mr Hs application was declined 
despite Hanley dedicating time and resource in underwriting his case. It then tells him Mr H it 
has investigated his case but we believe that you do not have grounds for the complaint 
Whilst the email is fairly terse, I read it that Hanley is saying that it did investigate Mr Hs 
complaint but didnt agree with him. Hanley then provides the information about Mr Hs rights 
to refer the complaint to this service which he then did. In any case, our role is to investigate 
the provision of financial services by Hanley which in this case was Mr Hs application for a 
mortgage which I have addressed above. Hanleys complaint handling is not a service that 
falls to us to investigate as its not the provision of a financial service and, so, I wont be 
commenting further on this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman