DRN-2784097
The complaint
Mr H complains he couldnt contact MCE Insurance Company Limited under his roadside 
assistance policy when he needed to. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as MCE are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
On 6 August 2020 Mr Hs bike unfortunately broke down. He said he tried to contact MCE on 
their breakdown number but there was no connection after several attempts. Mr H said he 
tried to contact MCE on different handsets, but still no connection. So, he searched for a 
local recovery company who did recover him. This cost £80, and he asked for a receipt from 
them. He then complained to MCE about what happened  and provided them with evidence 
of his attempted calls and his costs when asked.
MCE replied to the complaint. They said they could see Mr H had called at 8.50pm and 
again at 8.52pm saying each call lasted 50 seconds. Theyd checked with their provider who 
said there were no issues with their phone lines on the day of those calls. They added that 
the policy booklet says to call an alternative number if a policyholder isnt able to contact 
MCE on the main number. Overall then, they said they wouldnt be upholding Mr Hs 
complaint because there was an alternative number, and there were no technical issues with 
the phone lines. But they said in recognition of the evidence he sent them, theyd pay £40 to 
cover half the costs Mr H had incurred. They said theyd send a cheque for £40 to Mr H. 
Mr H didnt agree with this and asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so and felt MCE should meet the whole cost of £80. She said it 
was clear Mr H had called the main number on several occasions, so she was satisfied he 
called and couldnt connect. And, while she accepted MCEs argument about the alternative 
number, she also had to consider whether MCE had been prejudiced by Mr H arranging his 
own recovery. As she was satisfied Mr H had tried to get through, she didnt think they had 
been. 
Mr H accepted this, but MCE didnt. Across a number of responses, they said:
The calls only lasted 50 seconds and its possible Mr H was on hold during this time 
 so they didnt think hed provided enough evidence he wasnt able to get through to 
them
They cant be held responsible if Mr H decides to disconnect the call before its 
answered
The terms of the breakdown say Mr H has to be more than two miles away for the 
breakdown to be covered and ask if thats been checked.
Our investigator confirmed to MCE the breakdown was more than two miles away, so met 
the terms. And she was still satisfied Mr H had tried to call. She also reiterated she couldnt 
see that MCEs position had been prejudiced by Mr Hs actions, so still felt the case should 
be upheld. But MCE still didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree this complaint should be upheld.
The information Mr H has provided shows he did attempt to reach MCEs provider for him to 
be recovered. And its unclear to me why MCE think Mr H would call on several different 
handsets, several times, and then deliberately hang up before a call is answered. His actions 
show he was trying to get through to MCE and Ive seen nothing else to doubt this. Why he 
didnt get through I dont think well ever know as MCE have said theyve got no record of 
any technical issues on the phone lines.
And having considered all the facts of the case I agree with our investigators thoughts  I 
dont think MCEs position has been prejudiced. Im satisfied Mr H tried to get through to 
them, and when he couldnt he arranged his own recovery, asked for a receipt, and asked 
MCE to pay it. Mr H had a valid claim, and the only policy term MCE have pointed to  after 
our investigator upheld the case so not something they considered themselves  was that he 
might be more than two miles away. But Im satisfied based on the evidence he wasnt.
So, as MCEs position hasnt been prejudiced, they need to pay the remaining costs.  
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order MCE Insurance Company Limited to refund the 
full £80 costs of Mr Hs recovery. Anything already paid can be deducted from the amount to 
be paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman