DRN-4332815
The complaint
Miss L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc increased the limit on a credit card account, 
which she could not afford.
What happened
In January 2021 Sainsburys approved a credit card account with an initial limit of £2,500 for 
Miss L. It increased that limit in November 2021 to £3,300. Miss L has had difficulties making 
repayments since summer 2022 and it would appear that the account was defaulted at the 
start of 2023. However, it doesnt seem that Sainsburys has sold the debt on to a third party.
After Sainsburys rejected her complaint, Miss L brought the case to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at the evidence and thought that, whilst its initial decision to open the 
account was fair, Sainsburys should not have increased the credit limit in November 2021. 
So she upheld the complaint in part. Miss L accepted that view, but Sainsburys didnt, and 
asked that the case be passed to an Ombudsman for review.
As Miss L has accepted the investigators view, this decision will only consider whether the 
credit limit increase (CLI) was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Sainsburys is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this credit limit increase, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), 
so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Miss L would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in 
a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Miss L needed to be able to meet all her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Sainsburys for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Sainsburys carry out proportionate checks?
It would seem that Sainsburys carried out a very high-level credit check before giving the 
CLI in November 2021. It hasnt provided any substantial detail about that, but says the 
credit file information revealed no concerns. In addition, it had the benefit of seeing how 
Miss L had managed her account since January of that year. So, bearing in mind the size 
of the CLI, it says that these checks were proportionate and in line with the regulations in 
force.
The investigator thought that Sainsburys ought to have carried out more in-depth checks, 
noting the large amounts of cash Miss L had borrowed through money transfers on the 
credit card. She thought this was a flag of potential concern. I agree, and also note that 
Sainsburys ought to have known that it had declined an application for a loan from Miss L 
in the summer of 2021. I will discuss each of these issues in turn.
In September 2021 and then again in November 2021, Miss L used a money transfer 
facility to effectively borrow cash on her credit card account. On both occasions she 
borrowed £2,000, and on both occasions paid fees of £80 and £60 respectively, to 
complete the transactions. She paid interest on the September 2021 money transfer, but 
received a promotional 0% interest rate on the November 2021 money transfer.
Highlighting the promotional 0% interest rate, and that Miss L repaid the September 
transfer in early November, Sainsburys argues that these actions are not, therefore, a sign 
of potential difficulties. I disagree. Firstly, given the fees attached, neither of these transfers 
can be characterised as cost free borrowing, and the first was interest bearing. So I dont 
think it is logical to conclude that Miss L would have carried out either transaction unless 
she really did need the money. Secondly, the fact that Miss L needed to return so quickly 
to borrow the second amount of £2,000, having repaid the first transfer only seven days 
earlier, does not suggest financial health or stability.
Turning to the declined loan application, firstly, I accept that was a joint application. And 
Sainsburys says now that it doesnt have the details of why it was declined. So there is the 
possibility that the declinature was mostly, or even solely, as a result of concerns about 
Miss Ls co-applicant. But I can see that Sainsburys wrote to Miss L in August 2021 saying 
that she/they effectively already had too much unsecured borrowing and so Sainsburys 
wasnt prepared to offer any more. Without evidence showing those affordability concerns 
were only in relation to Miss Ls co-applicant, which I do not have, I find it is more likely 
than not that the August 2021 declinature was also a reflection of Miss Ls circumstances 
at the time. So its seems therefore likely that Sainsburys did have some level of concern 
about Miss Ls level of indebtedness.
I dont think that these factors were necessarily enough to lead Sainsburys to 
automatically rule out a CLI for Miss L in November 2021. But I am satisfied that it was 
aware of clear and very recent indicators of potential affordability risks for Miss L, and so 
needed to look into her actual situation in rather more depth to proportionately assess 
whether she could afford the CLI it was offering.
What would Sainsburys have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of Miss Ls bank statements to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on a 
lender to obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely on 
a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so Sainsburys could have opted to 
gather more information about Miss Ls financial position in a range of ways. However, it 
didnt, and, in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the bank 
statements to demonstrate what Sainsburys would most likely have discovered if it had 
completed proportionate checks.
As already explained by the investigator, the bank statements show that Miss Ls 
outgoings exceeded her income. Substantially. I think it is clear that she was struggling 
with a significant gambling addiction, and it is equally clear that she was entirely dependent on high-cost borrowing (in very large amounts) simply in order to exist.
I cannot see how proportionate checks could have led Sainsburys to conclude that this CLI 
was sustainable and affordable for Miss L. It therefore follows that I dont think Sainsburys 
should have increased the limit on Miss Ls account from November 2021, and so I uphold 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Whilst Im not aware that it has, if the lending relationship has deteriorated and Sainsburys 
has sold Miss Ls debt to a third party, it should buy it back, and then take the following 
steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below. However, I believe the account remains with Sainsburys, 
and it should be able to take these steps itself.
In order to put things right for Miss L, I direct Sainsburys to do the following:
a) Rework the account to remove all interest and charges incurred on the account since 
1 November 2021 on balances exceeding £2,500.
b) Calculate what Miss L would have owed it if the credit limit had stayed at £2,500.
c) Apply any and all repayments made by Miss L since 1 November 2021 to that 
adjusted balance identified in b).
d) If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, Sainsburys 
must refund any remaining sums to Miss L with 8% simple interest*, calculated from 
the date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
e) If after that calculation a balance remains, Sainsburys must continue to work with 
Miss L to maintain an affordable repayment plan for her.
f) Once the resulting balance has been repaid in full, Sainsburys must remove all 
adverse information it reported on Miss Ls credit file after 1 November 2021.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Sainsburys to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman