DRN-1546125
The complaint
Miss F and Mr U complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim under their pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2018, Miss F and Mr U took out insurance for their cat with Aviva, via Mr Us 
internal staff website.
The cat had been identified as having a heart murmur when it was six months old, and in 
August 2016, it was diagnosed with mild Hypertrophic Obstructive Cardiomyopathy (HOCM). 
No treatment was recommended, but Miss F was told the cat would need another scan in 
just under a year to find out if there was any progression. At this point, Miss F completed a 
claim form for HOCM with her previous insurer. In 2017, the heart murmur was barely heard, 
so no scan was completed. But in January 2018, the heart murmur was heard, and a repeat 
scan was advised.
The cat was seen by the vet in March 2019 because it was presenting with lameness, and its 
right-hand paw was cold. On this occasion it was diagnosed with thromboembolism 
associated with heart disease. A couple of days later, the cat had a follow-up appointment 
with a cardiologist, who confirmed it had HOCM. A further claim was put in for that 
consultation. 
Aviva declined both claims, stating the thromboembolic disease was linked to the 2016 claim 
for HOCM, therefore it was pre-existing and excluded under the policy.
Miss F and Mr U complained to Aviva, but it maintained its position, explaining that as the 
cat was diagnosed with a heart murmur before the policy started, and the thromboembolic 
disease was related to the heart, the conditions were linked, and no cover was available.
It further explained that one of the symptoms of HOCM is sudden hind limb paralysis with 
cold limbs, which the cat had first presented with in March 2019. Aviva had contacted the vet 
and the cardiologist who had treated the cat, who said heart disease was the most likely 
cause of the thromboembolic disease, suggesting both conditions were linked. 
Miss F and Mr U remained unhappy and so they complained to this service. They said they 
didnt feel they were given enough information before taking out the policy, and the policy 
wording and purchasing journey wasnt clear enough. They did see a section about 
assumptions when they took out the policy, but the link wouldnt open. They said that if they 
were asked about pre-existing conditions, they might have disclosed it, but they didnt accept 
the previous check-ups qualified as a condition, and they didnt think it was fair for the heart 
murmur to be used to deny treatment for any condition. 
Aviva explained Miss F and Mr U had been was advised on multiple platforms of the 
restriction for pre-existing conditions including the landing page, which listed pre-existing 
conditions as the first significant exclusion. They had also ticked a box to confirm theyd read 
and agreed to the assumptions, one assumption being that they accept there is no cover for 
pre-existing conditions. They were also provided with a link to the key facts document and 
the policy wording which explained the exclusion. After they took out the policy, they were 
also provided with a statement of fact confirming the cat had no pre-existing conditions.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss F and Mr U 
shouldve checked the policy was suitable and that even though there were no specific 
questions asked about pre-existing conditions, it was clear there was no cover for pre-
existing conditions.
He noted both the vet and the cardiologist had confirmed the likely cause of the 
thromboembolic disease was heart disease, linking it to a pre-existing medical condition 
about which Miss F was aware before taking out the policy. He was therefore satisfied that 
Aviva has acted fairly in declining the claim.
Miss F and Mr U have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman Theyve 
said they wouldnt have bought pet insurance knowing it was inadequate and they didnt 
know the issue was a condition because they arent medically trained. Mr U has also said 
he didnt know about the claim for HOCM under the previous policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pre-existing conditions are defined in the policy as any illness or injury or associated 
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not by a vet, which occurred prior to the start of your 
policy. Im satisfied this is clear and unambiguous.
On the landing page for Aviva pet insurance it says: we do not cover any illness or injury 
(including clinical signs) which happened before cover started. And when the assumptions 
link is clicked, it says you accept that previous, existing, ongoing ad recurring medical 
conditions and symptoms will not be covered by your Aviva pet insurance policy. According 
to Miss F and Mr U, they ticked the box to confirm they had read and agreed to the 
assumptions, even though they hadnt been able to access the link. While I have no doubt 
this is what happened, Aviva cant fairly be held responsible for the fact they went ahead 
with the purchase of the policy without clicking on the assumptions link.
After they took out the policy, Miss F and Mr U were provided with a link to the key facts 
document confirming the policy excluded cover for any claim for a pre-existing condition. 
Im satisfied these exclusions are clearly worded and Miss F and Mr U should reasonably 
have been aware of the existence of the exclusions.
Overall, Im satisfied Aviva made it reasonably clear that any pre-existing conditions wouldnt 
be covered. Im satisfied the term was reasonable  insurers are entitled to decide what risks 
they want to cover. And I dont think the policy was mis-sold as Miss F and Mr U were in a 
position to be able to make an informed decision concerning whether or not to take out the 
policy.
the claim
Miss F and Mr U have said theres no evidence the issues they claimed for in 2019 were 
linked to the heart murmur. But, the two vets who treated the cat have both confirmed heart 
disease was the most likely cause of the thromboembolic disease, and that the 
thromboembolic disease and HOCM with which the cat was first diagnosed in August 2016 
were linked. Miss F and Mr U have failed to produce any expert to rebut this and, based on the available evidence, I think its most likely the thromboembolic disease was linked to the 
HOCM, which Im satisfied was pre-existing.
Theres no dispute the cat was diagnosed with a heart murmur and HOCM before the policy 
stated and that Miss F had known about this when they took out the policy. Mr U has said 
they switched insurers in good faith, and he didnt know about the previous claim for HOCM 
or the full details of the previous treatment and monitoring the cat had undergone in relation 
to the heart murmur. But it was Mr Us responsibility to ensure the correct information was 
relied on when taking out the policy and its not unreasonable to expect him to have sought 
information from Miss F about the cats medical history before entering into the insurance 
contract.
Miss F and Mr U have argued that if they knew the heart murmur monitoring was going to be 
used to deny any heart related condition they wouldnt have switched to Aviva. But as Ive 
noted above, Im satisfied Miss F and Mr U ought reasonably to have been aware the policy 
excluded cover for pre-existing conditions and that they were in a position to make an 
informed decision about whether to switch insurers.
Mr U has said that they cant now get insurance because the cat is on medication, and Aviva 
wont provide the cover because of the pre-existing condition, so the cat is un-insurable. I 
understand thats frustrating, but I dont agree its because of anything Aviva has done or 
failed to do and theres no reason for it to make any changes to the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied Avivas decision to exclude the claims based on the fact the conditions 
were pre-existing was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman