DRN-3309782
The complaint
Mr O and Miss T complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr O and Miss T took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. 
The policy provided cover until 27 July 2020. In February 2020, Mr O and Miss T booked 
flights to a country Ill call C. They were due to travel between 26 July and 9 August 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. Subsequently, on 4 
July 2020, the FCDO placed some countries on a travel corridor list. The countries on this 
list were exempt from FCDO advice against all but essential travel. The FCDOs travel 
corridor list included C.
Cs government still had travel restrictions in place for UK nationals at this point. It 
announced that from 1 August 2020, UK nationals could enter the country so long as they 
had proof of a negative Covid-19 test. On this basis, Mr O and Miss T rearranged their 
outbound flight with their airline. They paid an additional charge to change their outbound 
flight to 2 August 2020.
But Mr O and Miss T werent able to find a local Covid-19 testing centre which had 
appointments. This meant they couldnt undergo the tests and therefore meet Cs 
governments entry requirements. Miss T got in touch with Mapfre to find out if a cancellation 
claim would be covered. She told the claims handler that the airline hadnt offered a refund, 
a credit voucher or the chance to rebook the flights. The adviser told Miss T that Covid-19 
related cancellation claims would be covered so long as the trip was booked before 13 
March 2020.
Mr O and Miss T cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
cost of the cancelled flights.
Mapfre turned down Mr Os and Miss Ts claim. While the policy did cover cancellation due 
to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel abroad, at the point Mr O and Miss T 
had been due to travel, there had been no such advice in place. So it said the claim wasnt 
covered. It acknowledged that its claims handler had wrongly told Miss T that the claim 
would be paid though, so it paid Mr O and Miss T £100 compensation to recognise the upset 
its error had caused them.
Mr O and Miss T were unhappy with Mapfres decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said that if Mapfres claims handler hadnt told them that their claim would 
be covered, theyd have been able to rebook the flights again with their airline. So they felt 
Mapfre had caused them to lose out financially.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr O and Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. As thered 
been no FCDO advice against travel to C at the point Mr O and Miss T had been due to 
travel, she didnt think the claim was covered by the cancellation section of the policy. And 
shed listened to the call between Miss T and the claims handler. She accepted that the 
claims handler had indicated that the claim would be covered. But she didnt think this had 
caused Mr O and Miss T to lose out. 
Thats because during the call, Miss T hadnt told the claims handler that she potentially had 
the option of rebooking. And she also noted that Mr O and Miss T had told us that they 
couldnt take the holiday at any other time of the year due to Mr Os employment. They said 
they wouldve booked for the same two weeks in 2021, but their airline hadnt had these 
dates available. This meant they wouldnt have been able to rebook their flights. So the 
investigator concluded that even if the claims handler hadnt incorrectly suggested that all 
claims would be met, Mr O and Miss T still wouldve had to cancel their flights and incur a 
loss.
Mr O and Miss T disagreed. They said that the FCDO had been advising against all but 
essential travel at the relevant time and they knew this because a relatives claim for the 
same trip had been paid out. They reiterated that Mr Os employment meant he was limited 
to the same two weeks of annual leave. They felt the compensation Mapfre had offered them 
had been an insult. And they said that during the call with Mapfre, theyd also been advised 
to take out a new policy to ensure they were covered. This had also caused them to lose out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr O and Miss T, I think it was fair for Mapfre 
to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr O and Miss Ts policy and the circumstances to decide whether Mapfre handled 
their claim fairly.
Was it fair for Mapfre to conclude that the claim wasnt covered?
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr O and Miss Ts policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Mapfre. As the holiday didnt go ahead, I think it was appropriate 
for Mapfre to consider the claim in line with the Cancelling or cutting short your trip section 
of the policy. This says that Mapfre will cover a policyholders travel and accommodation 
expenses if they have to cancel their trip because of one of the following specific, listed 
insured events:1. You die, become seriously ill or get injured.
2. A relative (see Definition on page 13), business associate, a person you have booked to 
travel with or a relative or friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with, dies, becomes 
seriously ill or gets injured.
3. You have to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert witness) or 
you are put in quarantine.
4. There is an accident involving a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which happens 
within seven days before the date you planned to leave and means you cannot use the 
vehicle. This only applies to self-drive holidays.
5. You are a member of the armed forces, police, fire, nursing or ambulance services and 
you have to stay in your home area because of an emergency or you are posted overseas 
unexpectedly.
6. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the time of booking 
the trip or the date you purchased this insurance cover, whichever is earlier, you had no 
reason to believe that you would be made redundant. This cover would not apply if you are 
self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy.
7. It is necessary for you to stay in your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business within 48 hours before the date you planned to leave. We 
will need a written statement from a relevant public authority confirming the reason and 
necessity.
8. It is necessary for you to return to your home area after a fire, storm, flood or burglary at 
your home or place of business. We will need a written statement from a relevant public 
authority confirming the reason and necessity.
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice for your destination/location changing to as a minimum 
all but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the booking of any individual 
trip, whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such FCO advice changes are 
announced after you have commenced your trip/holiday.
10. If you become pregnant after we have sold you this policy, and you will be more than 32 
weeks pregnant (or 24 weeks if you know you are having more than one baby) at the start 
of, or during, your trip. Or, your doctor advises that you are not fit to travel because you are 
suffering from complications of pregnancy or childbirth.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances of this claim. Mr O and Miss T were initially due 
to travel to C on 26 July 2020. On 4 July 2020, C had been placed on the FCDOs travel 
corridor, which meant that it was exempt from advice against all but essential travel. Theres 
no dispute that at this point. Cs government still wasnt allowing UK nationals to enter its 
borders. So it seems Mr O and Miss T wouldnt have been in a position to travel as planned 
if their trip dates had remained unchanged.
Mr O and Miss T didnt choose to cancel their trip at this point though. Instead, they moved 
their outbound flight to the following week, 2 August 2020. By this point, Cs government was 
allowing UK nationals to enter the country, if they could provide evidence of a negative 
Covid-19 test. And C remained on the FCDO travel corridor list, meaning there was no 
FCDO advice against all but essential travel to it on Mr O and Miss Ts intended travel dates. From what Mr O and Miss T have told us, the reason they were unable to travel on 2 August 
2020 was because they werent able to undergo the Covid-19 tests required by Cs 
government in time. This simply isnt a listed insured event which is covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy. And while I accept it must be frustrating for Mr O and Miss 
T that their relatives claim has been paid, this doesnt mean that the policies contain the 
same levels of cover or that Mapfre is bound to settle this claim. So I dont think Mapfre 
acted unfairly when it concluded that the claim didnt fall within the scope of cancellation 
cover.
The telephone call
Mapfre acknowledges that during Miss Ts call with its claims handler, Miss T was led to 
believe that cancellation claims due to Covid-19 restrictions would be covered if the trip was 
booked before 13 March 2020. This information wasnt right. Thats because Mapfre would 
still need to assess each claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and in some 
cases, there could be other reasons why a claim might be declined. So I agree that the 
claims handler incorrectly raised Miss Ts expectations about the likely success of her claim. 
However, in order for me to direct Mapfre to pay the claim on these grounds, Id need to be 
satisfied that the claims handlers misinformation caused Mr O and Miss T to lose out by 
acting in a way that they wouldnt otherwise have done and which led to a financial loss. Mr 
O and Miss T told us that if theyd been given the correct information by the claims handler, 
theyd have rebooked their flights with their airline for a later date and therefore, wouldnt 
have lost the cost of the flights. 
Ive thought about this carefully. Mr O and Miss T have told us that due to Mr Os 
employment, his holiday dates are very restricted, so there was no option to further re-book 
the flights with the airline, as it wasnt offering flights for the same time the following year. 
Miss T also accepts she told the claims handler that there were no options to book again. 
And she says the airline wasnt cancelling flights, so shed known there wouldnt be the 
opportunity for a refund or a voucher. On this basis then, it seems to me that even if the 
claims handler had given Miss T the correct information, she and Mr O still wouldnt have 
been in a position to rebook their flights or get their money back. Its most likely that as they 
couldnt travel outside of specific dates, theyd always have had to cancel their flights and 
therefore gone on to make a claim. Therefore, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
any information failings during this call led Mr O and Miss T to take any action they wouldnt 
have otherwise done. And I dont think I could fairly find that its caused them to lose out 
financially.
Mapfre acknowledged though that its claims handler had raised Mr O and Miss Ts 
expectations as to the likely outcome of their claim. And it accepted that they were likely to 
have been upset and frustrated. So it paid them £100 compensation to reflect this. In my 
view, this is a fair and reasonable award to recognise Mr O and Miss Ts loss of expectation 
and the likely upset they suffered as a result of the error. So Im not telling Mapfre to pay 
anything more.
Mr O and Miss T have now told us that they feel they unnecessarily took out a new annual 
policy, which caused them further loss. Its clear though that Mr O and Miss Ts 2019-20 
policy had already expired before their new holiday dates. So in order for Mapfre to assess a 
cancellation claim for a trip which was due to take place following policy expiry, new cover 
would need to be in place. Had they not taken out new cover, no claim could be considered. 
And the policy was valid until July 2021. So I dont find that it was unreasonable for Mapfre 
to set-up a new annual policy for Mr O and Miss T.
Overall, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down this claim. And I also find that Mapfre has 
already paid Mr O and Miss T fair compensation for its error. So Im not directing Mapfre to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman