DRN-1281545
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank Plc refused to complete the bank transfer form she needed 
to request funds from the United States of America causing her financial loss.
What happened
In July 2019, Ms M visited a TSB branch to ask for a bank transfer form to be completed. 
This was an overseas form, which she understood was required to enable her to receive 
funds from a previous employer in the USA. She says the assistant at TSB was very rude 
and at first refused to help her. She said he did finally agree, but he completed the wrong 
details on the form which resulted in her form being declined and not receiving the funds in 
time. 
She says the funds were needed so that she could pay for her rent. She says she suffered a 
considerable loss as a result of the form being completed incorrectly and wants TSB to 
compensate her for her loss.
TSB say that they found no evidence that they had done anything wrong. They say the form 
Ms M asked them to complete is not a form they would complete and stamp. They provided 
a list of the forms they as a business would complete and this wasnt one of them. 
Our investigator said he didnt find any evidence that TSB had done anything wrong. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator, so this has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think it should be 
upheld. I will explain why. 
I appreciate Ms M is upset as a result of her experience with TSB, but I have to consider 
what evidence is available from both parties and make my decision based on this. I havent 
seen any evidence that suggests TSB staff were rude to her or that they refused to help her. 
I understand that they didnt want to sign the form that she asked of them. This itself may 
have caused her distress as she needed the money transferred to her as soon as possible to 
pay for her rent.
I also have to consider that TSB have their own business rules and procedures in place and 
my role is to consider whether any wrong doing had happened in the circumstances. TSB 
confirmed that they do not complete details on international bank transfer forms and its not 
for me to tell them what their processes should be. Whilst they say they completed part of 
the form to help, Ms M says the form was rejected because it wasnt stamped by the bank. 
So, whether the information provided by TSB on the form was correct or not, the form would 
still have been rejected as it wasnt stamped. Additionally, I would also expect in cases where a transfer is for receipt of funds then 
providing the consumers bank details alone should have been enough and wouldnt require 
any action from the receiving bank. The information available here is limited so its unclear 
why the form was needed.
Both Ms M and TSB agree that they did complete part of the form before she sent this, so it 
seems they were trying to help her when they were not required to. I understand that she 
expected them to do more to help and had a difficult time throughout this situation. I 
appreciate her feelings, but the form being rejected, doesnt mean they have been unfair in 
their behaviour or done anything wrong. Overall, based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly 
say that TSB have acted unreasonably, so, I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against TSB Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman