DRN-1610454
The complaint
Mr U complains that Pockit Limited didn't make him aware they were going to start charging 
him a monthly fee for the account he holds with them. 
What happened
Mr U holds a Pockit electronic money (e-money) account. He's said when he opened the 
account there was nothing in the agreement concerning a monthly fee. 
In late 2019 he noticed a monthly charge on his account. He complained to Pockit, but they 
didn't uphold his complaint. They said that they sent him an email in January 2019 telling 
him about on the monthly charge. They felt they had acted fairly and didn't need to take any 
further action.
Unhappy with their response, Mr U brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didn't uphold the complaint - he 
thought Pockit were allowed to introduce a monthly charge under the terms and conditions of 
the account. And he thought they had acted fairly by giving Mr U enough notice of the 
charges. 
Mr U didn't agree with him. He believed the email he received from Pockit wasn't clear 
enough about the charge.
As there's been no agreement the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
I can see Mr U feels very strongly about the introduction of a monthly fee on his account. So 
I've thought carefully about the points he's raised. I've noted what he's said about not having 
to pay a monthly fee when he opened the account. And I've looked at the email he was sent 
telling him about the charge.
In order to make a decision on this complaint, I've firstly considered if Pockit were allowed to 
make changes to the agreement they had with Mr U. The terms and conditions of the 
account broadly say that they are allowed to make changes to the agreement provided they 
give the account holder notice of the changes. This doesn't seem unreasonable, so I'm 
satisfied the introduction of a monthly charge was allowed.
I've then considered if Pockit gave Mr U sufficient notice about the charge. But I've had to 
take into account the type of account Mr U has. His account is an e-money account and is 
subject to slightly different guidelines than a traditional bank account. It has to follow 
guidelines set out by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Electronic Money 
Regulations 2011. The relevant guidelines broadly say that such a change requires the customer to be given two months notice, and the option of immediate termination without 
charge. 
The email Mr U was sent in January 2019 says that Pockit are introducing a monthly 
membership fee from March 2019. And it also says that if he didn't want to accept the fee 
then he should get in touch and Pockit would close his account. 
So it seems that Pockit have given Mr U sufficient notice and the option to terminate without 
charge. I'm therefore satisfied they've met their obligations under the relevant guidelines. 
I've also thought about what Mr U has said about the email not being clear. I'm afraid I don't 
agree with Mr U. The email has three headings and under the third heading 
(Pockit membership) - it gives details of the new membership fee. It says "To help us 
continue improving Pockit and keep bringing you great new features, from March 2019 we'll 
be introducing a 99p monthly membership fee." So, I'm satisfied that the email clearly 
detailed the new fee.
I appreciate that Mr U thinks this message should have been given more prominence in the 
email. Because his account is an e-money account, I have to take into account the rules that 
apply to this type of account. And I haven't found anything in the guidance regarding how 
such a change should be communicated, for example if it needed to be a standalone letter or 
email.
But having read the email, I don't think the information about the new fee was hidden. The 
subject of the email was We're updating our terms and conditions. So, I think this shows it 
was an important email that required attention.
And as I've previously said, the body of the email had three headings. Even though details of 
the new fee were under the third heading, there wasn't much information under the first two 
headings. I don't think it was too onerous to read what they said. The third heading 
contained the majority of the information in the email, and the first line of this section gave 
details of the new fee.
So, taking everything into account, I'm satisfied the details of the new fee were 
sufficiently prominent. 
My final decision
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr U but the reasons I've given above I don't uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman