DRN-3816872
The complaint
G says that UK Insurance Limited trading as NIG (UKI) has undervalued his vehicle following 
a claim he made on his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
Following an accident Gs vehicle was deemed a total loss. Initially UKI offered him £2,800 
to settle the claim. But after a review it increased its offer to £4,000. UKI said this 
represented the market value of the vehicle.
But G doesnt think this offer is fair and wants UKI to pay what he thinks the vehicle is worth. 
G says this vehicle is worth between £5,000 and £10,000. G says that the insurers 
approach to valuing this vehicle using the trade guides - is flawed, because this vehicle is an 
older vehicle (registered in 2004). G says this particular vehicle cant be priced using the 
motor trade guides. He says the open market and internet sales platforms give a truer 
picture of what this vehicle is really worth. 
G brought a complaint to this service. An investigator looked at his complaint and initially 
raised a query over whether VAT was payable. However, once this question was clarified, 
our investigator spoke to G and said that the vehicle valuation was fair, and we wouldnt be 
asking UKI to increase it. 
But G doesnt agree with either the valuation on the vehicle nor the approach taken to 
achieve it. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
As the VAT question wasnt part of the original complaint, and has since been clarified, Im 
not going to comment on it here. I will only deal with the approach used and the valuation 
provided for Gs vehicle in this decision.
This service has an established approach to valuation cases https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs And when looking at the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company, I have to consider the approach the insurer has adopted to decide whether the 
valuation is fair in all the circumstances. It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact 
valuation for a policyholders vehicle. Our approach is to consider whether UKI has settled 
Gs claim in line with the terms and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably using our 
established approach. 
The policy pays market value. Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Gs 
vehicle at the time of the incident. Not all of the guides are able to produce a valuation on a 
vehicle this old. But of the ones that do, £2,800 is the highest value. And thats what UKI 
initially offered G. But when G complained, UKI then had the value reviewed by two 
engineers, who agreed to increase it to £4,000
G says even this increased valuation is not a true reflection of the value of his car. He says 
that based on the evidence hes provided, £5,000 to £10,000 is a more reasonable valuation. 
G says the normal approach of using the motor trade guides is flawed in this particular 
instance because of the vehicles age, and the real value of this vehicle is reflected via 
online vehicle sales platforms.
I agree there can be occasions when the standard approach is not the right one. For 
example, in the case of a bespoke or classic vehicle. And in todays volatile car market we 
would expect insurers to look across all the data it has available to get to a fair valuation, not 
just the motor trade guides. But that doesnt mean the motor trade guides are wrong  they 
are simply a source of evidence. They are reputable guides and the data within these guides 
is based on both sales and advertised prices across the UK and is regularly updated. So, Im 
confident they are a solid reflection of whats happening on the ground in the UK motor 
trade.
I would also say that in this particular case, UKI actually did step outside the standard 
approach to make sure what it was offering was fair and reasonable. After G complained it 
sought the opinion of two engineers, who agreed to increase the valuation. So, Im satisfied 
UKI considered the standard approach, and then evolved it to reflect what its engineers 
believed was a fairer reflection of the value of the vehicle. 
But G remains unhappy and hes provided a number of adverts from online platforms which 
he says shows why UKIs valuation is unfair. And at a glance, I can see why G wants more 
for his car. Some of these adverts show the same make and model of vehicle for sale for 
prices up to and above £10,000. But out of the eight samples G has provided, four are from 
a different, more recent year, and many contain either no mileage or a mileage far below that 
of Gs vehicle. 
Mileage or year of registration can significantly affect a vehicles value. And looking at the 
data presented about this specific vehicle, I can see that mileage in particular is having a 
major bearing on its value. The data is very clear. Similar vehicles from 2004 with low 
mileage can command high prices. But from what I can see, once this make and model of 
vehicle goes over 100k miles, the value goes down dramatically. Gs vehicle is slightly above 
the average mileage and exceeds 100k miles. And taking this into account, alongside 
everything else, including the added extras G has listed, I can see that £2,500 to £4,000 is a 
true reflection of the price Gs vehicle would have achieved on the date of loss.  
So, even though I agree with G when he says that the standard approach to valuing a 
vehicle doesnt always give the fairest outcome, Im satisfied UKI did step outside that 
approach and considered all the data it had available to get to a fair value for G. I know G 
will be disappointed. But based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the amount offered for 
the total loss of Gs vehicle is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking UKI to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Derek DunneOmbudsman