DRN-4479970
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Santander UK Plc are reporting inaccurate information about their 
overdraft to credit referencing agencies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H carried out an account switch in August 2022. However, they were unable to 
transfer their overdraft to their new account. This meant their overdraft balance with 
Santander remained outstanding, despite their account needing to be closed. Mr and Mrs H 
couldnt afford to repay their overdraft in full, so Santander agreed a repayment plan of £150 
a month until the overdraft is cleared.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Santander as they said late payment markers were being 
reported on their credit file. They felt this was inaccurate because they were making their 
payment on time each month. Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Hs concerns and issued 
their final response. In this, they explained they were correctly reporting that the terms of the 
overdraft had been breached, but an arrangement to pay was in place. Mr and Mrs H 
remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and felt it should be upheld. He 
explained he didnt think Santander clearly explained the overdraft was immediately 
repayable. He also didnt think it was fair for any negative markers to be reported on Mr and 
Mrs Hs credit files as they were adhering to the repayment plan. Because of this our 
Investigator said Santander should remove negative markers from Mr and Mrs Hs credit 
files and pay them £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Santander disagreed with our Investigator and explained that the overdraft was immediately 
repayable because the account was closed due to Mr and Mrs H doing an account switch. 
As they were unable to repay the outstanding balance for their overdraft, they had been 
correctly reporting an arrangement to pay was in place. But once the overdraft is cleared 
within a reasonable amount of time, and in line with the agreed repayment plan, any 
negative markers would be removed.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so this complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
I issued my provision decision on 6 November 2023. I explained I considered Santander 
were reporting accurate information to credit referencing agencies. As such, I wasnt 
persuaded Santander needed to do anything to put things right.
Both parties had until 27 November to send me any additional points they wanted me to 
consider. Santander accepted my provisional. Mr and Mrs H expressed they were 
disappointed with the outcome and how they felt the terms and conditions of their account 
put them in an unfair position. However, they did agree for the late payment markers to be 
removed from their credit files once their outstanding balance is repaid.
Having taken everything into consideration, my decision remains the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
When carrying out an account switch, its normal practice for the account a customer is 
moving from to close. So, I cant agree with our Investigator that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
been aware their account would close. And because their account was closing, I dont 
consider Santander acted unreasonably by initially expecting the overdraft balance owed by 
Mr and Mrs H to be repaid immediately  particularly given they had no control over whether 
Mr and Mrs Hs new bank would or wouldnt provide them with an overdraft. Its not 
uncommon for overdrafts to become immediately repayable. And having reviewed the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs Santander account, Ive seen it has a section headed, 17. 
Cancellation and closing your account, which says b) where you have an Arranged or 
Unarranged Overdraft on the account, you must pay off all the money you have borrowed 
together with all fees and interest.
Despite Santander being entitled to immediate repayment of the overdrawn balance owed to 
them, I was pleased to see they took Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances into account once they 
were aware the debt couldnt be repaid right away. Mr and Mrs H havent said the £150 per 
month repayment plan was unsuitable for their circumstances, so Im persuaded this is an 
amount they confirmed to Santander they could afford to pay in order to clear what they 
owed. So, it seems both parties did what Id expect in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence to show theyve been making their monthly 
repayments on time. And Santander hasnt disputed thats the case. So, whats in dispute is 
whether Mr and Mrs Hs credit files accurately reflect the way this overdrawn balance is 
being managed.
As mentioned above, the overdraft was meant to be fully repaid when Mr and Mrs Hs 
account closed. So, the fact an outstanding balance remains means that repayment of that 
debt, overall, is late. And that is something that needs to be reflected on their credit files. 
However, while that might be the case I would expect Santander to also report that an 
arrangement to pay is in place. Mr and Mrs H have sent me a screenshot of one of their 
credit reports and I can see that it says, Arrangement The lender has agreed to vary your 
payments for a time Start date: 01 Sep 2022. 
Given the information detailed above, Im satisfied that Santander is reporting accurate 
information to credit referencing agencies. Santander has told our service that any adverse 
data will be removed from Mr and Mrs Hs credit file once the overdraft is repaid, and if they 
continue to adhere to the agreed repayment plan. I consider thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As such, I dont consider Santander needs to do anything to put things right.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H hoped for. But for the reasons above, Im not 
upholding their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Santander UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman