DRN-2826562
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined two claims for damage caused 
by his tenants, and a storm claim, under his landlord insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr B owns two adjoining properties, which he was letting to tenants through an agent. The 
agent was someone Mr B had met through his work, and both properties were let to the 
same two tenants. Both properties were insured under a single AXA landlord insurance 
policy.
In September 2018, Mr B reported three claims. Two claims for malicious damage (one for 
each property), and a claim for storm damage to the roof of one property. AXA appointed a 
loss adjuster, and it was established both properties were being used for, and damaged by, 
cannabis cultivation. The loss adjuster also concluded the damage to the roof was due to 
wear and tear, rather than a one-off storm event. Mr B wasnt present during the loss 
adjusters visit.
AXA found that the tenants vetting documents had been fabricated and the individuals didnt 
exist. In view of those concerns, and several other concerns, AXA wished to meet with Mr B, 
to go through the claim. AXA couldnt meet with Mr B until June 2019, due to him being 
abroad until that time. 
Following the meeting with Mr B, AXA wrote to him with concerns. AXA noted he was unable 
to show regular inspections had been undertaken, and he had confirmed the inspection logs 
were held by the agent. It said no evidence had been presented to show the tenants existed, 
and Mr B hadnt provided any details for the agent. AXA said it remained concerned Mr B 
had attempted to mislead it, and he had breached most of the policy requirements for 
malicious damage by tenants to be covered.
Exchanges followed between the parties, but AXA declined the claims. AXA noted Mr B was 
required to comply with the requirements set out under the illegal cultivation of drugs cover; 
and those responsibilities arent satisfied by simply delegating the requirements to a third-
party agent.
AXA went on to explain that, given the overwhelming evidence of the significant cultivation of 
drugs, and extent of the damage, it wasnt plausible regular or recent inspections had been 
undertaken. So, it wasnt satisfied the inspection requirement had been met. AXA also said 
the requirement to credit reference tenants, and receive rental payments from their bank 
account, hadnt been met. AXA said that failure to comply with these requirements were 
linked to the loss, so it was unable to cover the damage. AXA also noted the maximum 
entitlement under the policy for both malicious damage claims was £5,000. AXA also 
confirmed the storm claim wasnt covered as the cause was wear and tear, which is 
excluded by the policy.
In November 2019, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. In May 2020, he provided a 
letter from his solicitor, which among other things said, the cause of the damage had been 
wrongly recorded by AXA. The letter said Mr B had also reported theft to AXA. It noted the 
claim for storm damage was secondary to the damage caused by tenants making holes in 
the roof to access and steal lead, which in turn led to rainwater ingress. Furthermore, the 
letter said the cultivation of cannabis only accounted for a small part of the damage, with 
damage mainly being caused by the theft of lead, copper pipes, and the heating system.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She was persuaded Mr B had 
completed the required inspections due to a handwritten log he had provided. Whilst she 
accepted other requirements hadnt been met, she didnt think AXA could fairly rely on 
onerous terms if it hadnt brought them to Mr Bs attention, i.e. he wasnt aware of the 
actions he needed to take to be covered. Our investigator also concluded the photos 
supported damage had been caused to the roof by holes being made to access lead.
Our investigator concluded AXA should now consider the damage subject to the remaining 
policy terms. She said AXA should pay 8% simple interest per annum, from the date of the 
claim to the date of settlement; and pay Mr B £500 compensation for the delays. She also 
clarified that each property should be subject to its own claim, and own £5,000 limit. AXA 
disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I explained that I was intending to change the settlement 
recommended by our investigator. I also considered points not previously addressed. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
storm damage
Mr B hasnt been able to give a date for when storm damage occurred. Ive checked weather 
records for two months before the claim, and there were no storm conditions recorded in the 
area. We also havent been shown anything to support the property was damaged by a 
storm. Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA fairly declined the storm claim.
reasonable care
The policy terms require Mr B to take reasonable care. Therefore, regardless of whether the 
requirements of the malicious damage and theft by tenants cover and the illegal cultivation 
of drugs cover were met, if I was persuaded Mr B hadnt taken reasonable care, I would 
likely decide AXA could fairly decline his claim. As such, before considering whether the 
damage should be covered under those parts of the policy, I will address the arguments 
relating to reasonable care.
AXA has explained that it doesnt consider reasonable care to have been taken. It says Mr B 
undertook no due diligence on the agent managing the properties; and the documents he 
had been given for the tenants were fabricated. AXA also says, in May 2018, he became 
aware the tenants hadnt paid the council tax, and in July 2018, he didnt receive that 
months rent. AXA says Mr B failed to follow up these issues in a meaningful way.For AXA to show Mr B hadnt taken reasonable care, it would need to demonstrate he had 
been reckless. A leading legal case about reasonable care, set out the recklessness test.
AXA would need to show that Mr B recognised the risk but still deliberately courted it, by 
either taking no steps at all, or steps he knew wouldnt be adequate to avert the risk.
Mr B has explained he met the agent through his work in a professional environment. Hes 
also shown he received a variety of vetting documents and was receiving rental income for 
some time. I accept the vetting documents were fabricated; and the points AXA has made 
about both properties being rented by the same people, the relatively high rental income 
being received, and the high agent fee being paid. However, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me Mr B recognised there may be something amiss in respect of the 
arrangements with the agent or tenants.
Mr B also received the rental payment for June 2018. Therefore, Im not persuaded he ought 
reasonably to have been aware of any issue before the July 2018 payment was missed; and 
whilst I accept Mr B could have followed up more proactively, he hadnt previously had any 
issues, so I accept he didnt immediately have concerns. He did attempt some contact with 
the agent, as shown by messages AXA has seen, before visiting the properties in 
September 2018 (which is when he says he recognised something was wrong).
Overall, Im not persuaded AXA has demonstrated Mr B was reckless, as per the test that 
applies.
damage caused by tenants
Based on the damage described to our service by Mr Bs solicitor, there are two potential 
coverages in the policy: malicious damage and theft by tenants and illegal cultivation of 
drugs. 
Both coverages have the same requirements, in terms of the actions the policyholder needs 
to take to be covered. The requirements are set out on page 22 and 23 of a 68-page policy 
booklet. Theres no reference to these requirements in the policy schedule, and AXA has 
confirmed that it doesnt highlight the requirements to its customers as part of the sales 
journey.
An insurer has an obligation to provide information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way. 
This means an insurer needs to bring onerous terms to the attention of its policyholder, so 
they know they need to do something to be covered. Im not persuaded that detailing 
onerous requirements in a lengthy policy book, without any signposting, is sufficient. 
In conclusion, I dont consider AXA can reasonably rely on these requirements to decline the 
damage caused by the tenants. This leads to the question about which of the two coverages 
should reasonably apply and the monetary limits.
In the submissions we received, I havent seen any mention of theft of lead, copper pipes, or 
parts of the heating system until some 20 months after the claims were reported. In the loss 
adjusters report, theres no mention of the property being stripped of materials, and Ive not 
seen such observations were made by the professional representative appointed by Mr B to 
deal with the claim on his behalf. The photos Ive seen of the inside of the properties, from 
the time of the claims, also dont point to them being stripped of assets. I accept the roof 
photos show damage, but I havent seen anything that persuades me the damage was 
caused during the theft of lead, rather than being general wear, or damage caused to 
facilitate drug cultivation. Indeed, Mr B said in his face-to-face interview the roof was 
damaged by the tenants cutting holes to let out the smell of growing plants. Based on everything Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably direct AXA to 
consider the damage under the malicious damage and theft by tenants cover. However, 
given what Ive said above about onerous terms, Im persuaded it needs to consider the 
damage under the illegal cultivation of drugs cover.
However, Im satisfied that, as per the policy terms, the most AXA will pay during a period of 
insurance for all claims made under the illegal cultivation of drugs cover, is £5,000. This 
means, its maximum liability for both claims is £5,000.
To put matters right, I intend to decide AXA should settle the two illegal cultivation of drugs 
claims, subject to the £5,000 limit. Mr B will need to evidence the cost of the repairs that are 
needed due to the tenants cultivating drugs, so AXA can make the settlements.
claim delays
Our investigator thought £500 compensation should be paid for the claim delay, but I dont 
intend to make this award. Given the circumstances of the claims and AXAs observations, 
I dont consider its enquiries were unreasonable. Delays were caused by Mr B being out of 
the country, and this isnt a delay I can reasonably hold AXA responsible for. After he was 
available for a face-to-face interview, AXA progressed matters relatively quickly.
However, given I intend to decide AXA should have settled the illegal cultivation of drugs 
claims, it follows interest should be added to the claim settlements. I consider AXA ought 
reasonably to have settled the two claims soon after Mr B had responded to its concerns 
letter, following the interview. Mr B responded on 28 August 2019. As such, I intend to 
decide AXA should add 8% simple interest per annum on the claim settlements, from 
28 August 2019 until the date of my final decision. Mr B will need to provide AXA with 
information to evidence the repair costs, before the settlements and interest are paid.
AXA accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr B made the following points:
- He reiterated there were three causes of loss (damage caused by the cultivation of 
drugs; theft of the heating system, copper pipes, and roof lead; and storm damage, 
which occurred because the roof had been damaged by the tenants). He provided 
supporting photos.
- He says AXA was responsible for the deterioration of the property due to its delays, 
and most of the damage was caused by theft. He therefore believes AXA should be 
responsible for settling all the damage. He would like an independent survey to 
estimate the actual cost of the damage.
- The policy also covers loss of rental income. He says AXA should therefore pay for 
all lost rent from the date of the claim, until the date of the settlement.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill focus on the further points Mr B has made. 
I cant determine from the limited photos Mr Bs provided, whether the internal damage is 
from the tenants altering the property to facilitate the cultivation of drugs, or from them 
stealing copper pipes and/or the heating system. The roof photos appear to support that some lead has been stripped. However, based on the 
information Ive seen, 20 months passed between the claim and theft being mentioned. So, 
Im not persuaded that I can reasonably direct AXA to cover damage under the malicious 
damage and theft by tenants cover now.
In any event, even if I was to accept most of the damage was caused by theft by the tenants, 
that cover also has a £5,000 limit. So, even if I were to decide the damage ought reasonably 
to be considered under the malicious damage and theft by tenants cover, rather than the 
illegal cultivation of drugs cover, the settlement would be the same.
I accept what Mr B says about the roof suffering further weather-related damage due to the 
damage that was caused by the tenants, and that internal damage has been caused by the 
ingress of rainwater. However, Ive accepted the tenants caused damage to the roof during 
the cultivation of drugs  so, thats the proximate cause of any subsequent damage, not 
storm. Ive not seen anything that supports a storm claim should succeed. As such, the 
£5,000 limit applies.
In terms of the delays, as I noted in my provisional decision, I dont consider AXAs enquiries 
to have been unreasonable and it wasnt responsible for Mr B being out of the country. Also, 
in my view, Mr B ought to have taken reasonable steps to mitigate further losses, by getting 
repairs completed and the properties back on the rental market. It was certainly for him to 
ensure the properties were watertight.
Its not my view that AXA needs to pay for a survey. But rather, Mr B needs to evidence the 
cost of repairing the initial damage caused by the tenants, so AXA can settle the claims 
subject to the overall £5,000 limit.
In respect of Mr Bs loss of rent, its my understanding that he did have this cover. However, 
I havent seen hes previously made a claim for, or a complaint about, this loss. Its not for 
me to pre-empt AXAs decision, so if Mr B wishes to pursue his loss of rent, hell need to 
make a claim to AXA first. 
If Mr B makes a loss of rent claim, I would expect AXA to consider everything Ive said in my 
provisional and final decisions for this complaint, when deciding whether a loss of rent claim 
should succeed, and if so, how much should be paid. If afterwards Mr B is unhappy, he can 
make a separate complaint about AXAs loss of rent decision.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
- consider Mr Bs repair costs in respect of the damage caused by the cultivation of 
drugs, and settle the two claims subject to the overall £5,000 limit; and
- add 8% simple interest1 per annum on the settlement amounts, from 28 August 2019 
until the date of my final decision.  
1If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. If requested, AXA should also 
provide Mr B with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman