DRN-3147369
The complaint
Mr T has complained about AWP P&C SA. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his motor warranty. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as AWP are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr T had a problem with his car and made a claim under his motor warranty following an oil 
leak. But when AWP looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because it didnt feel 
there was sufficient evidence that the oil leak Mr Ts car had sustained occurred during the 
policy period.
As Mr T wasnt happy about this he complained to AWP. He maintained that the oil leak 
should have been identified when the dealership looked at other issues he had earlier in the 
year when his policy was live in May 2019. But AWP maintained that the oil leak was only 
identified in September 2019 which was after the policy was cancelled. And as the problem, 
and claim, wasnt identified and submitted earlier it wouldnt pay the claim. So Mr T 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T but didnt uphold his complaint. He investigated 
the complaint but didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say the oil leak occurred during 
the policy period and so he didnt think AWP had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. 
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know that this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr T, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration as he feels that the oil leak happened while the policy 
was live but just wasnt diagnosed properly. But I would need to see clear evidence of this to 
say that AWP has acted unfairly in turning down his claim and I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to support his position.
It is accepted by both sides that Mr T did have problems with his car while the policy was in 
place and that work was undertaken under the warranty. But the warranty was cancelled 
around 6 June 2019 and the oil leak, that is subject of this claim, was only identified in 
September 2019 when a fibreoptic scope was used. I know Mr T feels that if the scope was 
used at an earlier stage then the oil leak from the oil cooler would have been identified but 
there isnt any evidence to support his position. 
I accept the general point that Mr T has made, and it is possible that the leak could have 
been identified earlier. But there isnt any real evidence to support this position. And I would 
have expected Mr T, and the mechanics who saw his car before the problem was identified 
in September 2019, to have noted the oil leak around the damaged area and oil stains 
generally if the leak had been ongoing for a few months as Mr T has suggested.
I know Mr T feels that the problem was already in existence when he had other work done 
but the evidence before me doesnt support that. His vehicle did have a leak around the 
turbo, which was repaired and resolved, but that is a different issue to the later oil leak in 
relation to the oil cooler identified in September 2019. 
Mr T also says that the repairing dealership said that the claim would be met. But it appears 
that they were trying to be helpful and get Mr Ts claim met for him. However, this wasnt the 
dealerships decision to make - it was AWPs. And had the policy still have been in place In 
September 2019 then it is likely that the claim would have been met, but it had been 
cancelled by then (June 2019).  
Indeed, I note that Mr T made a strong argument to AWP that the oil leak from the oil cooler 
should have been identified in July 2019,  when he had other work undertaken to his car. But 
the policy had already been cancelled by this point in time in any event. So, a claim wouldnt 
be covered as the policy had already been cancelled. 
So, although the policy terms show that Mr Ts car would be covered in relation to a claim for 
electrical or mechanical failure during the period of cover, including the oil cooler, the policy 
wasnt in place when the leak from the oil cooler was identified. As such I dont think it would 
be fair or reasonable to ask AWP to meet the claim.
Finally, as Mr T has said that he had the problem in May 2019, but it wasnt identified, our 
investigator spoke to the repairing dealership who gave a timeline of events surrounding 
other repairs of Mr Ts car. The dealership explained that the leak from the oil cooler wasnt 
missed as Mr T has suggested. But did explain that there was a separate unconnected leak 
from the turbo in May 2019 that was repaired and resolved at that point in time. 
Given all of this, I cant say that AWP has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim as 
the oil leak wasnt presented by Mr T, or identified by the garage, while the policy was in 
place.      
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman