DRN-3386242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Wtj Insurance Brokers Ltd (Wtj) failed to pass on important 
information to their insurance company and mis-sold them a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
For ease, Ill refer to Mr U throughout. References to Mr U and Wtj include any respective 
representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented by 
our Investigator previously so Ive provided a summary here. 
Mr U contacted his broker, Wtj, to obtain quotes for an insurance policy to cover a 
property he was having constructed by a builder. Some months later, he contacted 
Wtj to put the policy  underwritten by Company A - on risk. 
Subsequently, the insured property was badly damaged in a fire and Mr U made a 
claim on the policy. Company A declined the claim as it said Mr U had 
misrepresented various facts when he took it out. It said, had it known the true 
answers to the questions, it would have declined to provide cover. It avoided the 
policy so the claim wasnt paid.
This was the subject of a separate complaint against Company A considered by this 
Service which our Investigator didnt uphold. He concluded Company A was entitled 
to decline the claim and avoid the policy as Mr U had misrepresented the risk.
Mr U says he was clear about his requirements for the policy to Wtj and it had failed 
to ask him all the required questions and provided incorrect information to Company 
A without consulting him. So he said Wtj was responsible for the misrepresentations 
and the claim decline.
Mr U complained to Wtj and it issued a final response in November 2021. It said Mr U 
had provided the answers to the questions and it had passed these on to Company A 
accurately. Wtj said Mr U had said the property was complete in November 2020 and 
he was moving in and required immediate cover. Wtj said it was clear from the 
various reports after the fire that the property wasnt complete - despite Mr U saying it 
was - and if it had been told the true facts it wouldnt have incepted the policy. 
Mr U was unhappy with this and raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint, he considered the available evidence and concluded the 
documentation sent to Mr U clearly laid out the details on which the quotes had been 
based and Mr U should have informed Wtj if these didnt reflect what hed said or the 
reality of the property.
Mr U disagreed and said the sale had been made on an advised basis and reiterated 
Wtj had provided information (including locks) without checking with him. 
Our Investigator had another look but didnt change his mind, highlighting Mr U 
should have notified Wtj what was quoted on the statement of facts from Company A 
was incorrect. 
Mr U asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint should 
be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats 
not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont consider it necessary to 
specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
When theres conflicting evidence or testimony as there is in this case, Ill make my decision 
on the balance of probability, thats to say what I think is most likely to have happened. 
The declined claim 
Company A declined the claim on the basis it hadnt been provided with correct information 
about the risk it was taking on in agreeing to the policy. Theres no dispute that Wtj supplied 
the information to Company A. But what is in dispute is who was responsible for that 
incorrect information. 
Wtj says it asked Mr U the appropriate questions and it accurately passed on the answers 
provided by him so the responsibility for the misrepresentation lies with Mr U in not providing 
the true picture. Mr U, on the other hand, says Wtj didnt ask him all the questions and he 
answered those he was asked accurately. So, the responsibility for the misrepresentation 
lies with Wtj.
The initial conversations where Mr U explained his requirements for the policy to Wtj took 
place on a mobile phone line and that means theres no call recording available. In the 
absence of a contemporaneous record of this call I dont know what kind of cover Mr U 
asked for, what he said about the state of the property or what questions Wtj asked Mr U nor 
what answers he provided. And I have to consider the available evidence and testimony of 
events to determine what was most likely discussed and recorded at the time.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was £100,000 of work left to complete which Wtj 
told Company A was in relation to the fitting of a kitchen and floor coverings, information 
which it said was provided by Mr U. Company A was happy with this amount and type of 
work and provided a quote for cover. Mr U says he was very clear with Wtj about the nature 
and extent of the work left outstanding and denies telling Wtj it just related to the kitchen 
fitting and floor coverings. But, as Ive explained, theres no record of this conversation to 
say for certain which version of events is accurate.
Ive read the transcript of a conversation between Mr U and Wtj after the fire as this 
particular call was recorded by Mr U. I acknowledge theres some discussion about what 
happened in previous conversations but Im not persuaded this sheds sufficient light on 
those earlier conversations for me to safely conclude Wtj mis-sold Mr U a policy that didnt 
meet his requirements, particularly given the opposing versions of events detailed by the 
parties.From Mr Us testimony, it seems he was quite specific about his requirements for the policy 
in his conversations with Wtj and while this led our Investigator to suggest the sale was likely 
non-advised Im not persuaded I can say with any certainty if it was or not. And as Mr Us 
requirements and what was said about them are in dispute with no contemporaneous 
evidence to support either position Ive gone on to consider the other evidence available to 
me in reaching a decision about whether Wtj is responsible for the misrepresentation and 
ultimately the declined claim.
After the initial conversation between Mr U and Wtj in September 2020, when the 
requirements for the cover were discussed, Wtj sent Mr U an email with a quote together 
with accompanying documentation. This included a Statement of Fact setting out the basis 
on which the policy had been agreed which included the responses to the four key questions 
which led to the misrepresentation. 
This statement of fact clearly explains the responsibility on Mr U to take reasonable care to 
ensure the information is accurate and complete and it warns of the actions it might take if it 
isnt. These included Company A refusing to deal with the claim and voiding the policy. Im 
satisfied the warning was fair, clear and not misleading.
This warning is repeated on the quote documentation, directly underneath the box detailing 
the cost of the insurance. Mr U called back the next day to say the premium was too 
expensive and he wanted it cheaper. On balance, it seems unlikely to me he would have 
looked at the documentation, been unhappy with the premium but not considered or read 
any of the warnings directly below the premium information. And even if he did, I dont think 
this wouldve been reasonable on his part given his responsibility as a policyholder and the 
clear information hes been presented with to confirm is correct.
Following the initial quote, Wtj sent out a revised quote with accompanying documentation, 
again including the Statement of Fact with the same answers to the questions and the same 
warning about accuracy of the information.
Wtj says Mr U told it, in September 2020, the property was fitted with 5 lever mortice locks; 
Mr U says he wasnt asked this and wouldnt have known the answer even if he had been. If 
I were to believe Wtjs version of events here, that would mean Mr U didnt provide an 
accurate picture as it became apparent later there was no front door fitted and there were no 
locks at the property. 
And if I didnt believe Wtj, that would mean I would have expected Mr U to identify the 
inaccurate information about the locks and to query this with Wtj given the severity of the 
warnings detailed in the various documents he received about the policy.
I would have to believe he chose not to check anything that was sent to him each time or 
checked it and ignored the inaccuracies. So again, I dont think this would be reasonable on 
his part as a policyholder  in light of the information he was presented with. 
Mr U got back in contact in November 2020 to put the policy on risk. Wtj says it checked with 
Mr U if any amendments were required and he confirmed there werent. Ive seen evidence 
further policy documentation, including another Statement of Fact with the same answers 
and the same warning was sent to Mr U both by email initially  which he said he received - 
and then in the post. 
I acknowledge Mr U says he didnt receive the postal copy but as the correct address was 
used I wouldnt hold Wtj responsible for mail not being delivered by the postal service. And 
notwithstanding this, Mr U confirmed hed received the emailed version. So, this doesnt 
change anything.In all, the information and warning was provided to Mr U three times. I accept its possible 
that Mr U may not have known all the four answers in question were inaccurate. But, on 
balance, I think he ought reasonably to have known the doors werent fitted with 5 lever 
mortice locks for the reasons Ive explained above. The Investigator concluded that this 
inaccuracy alone would have been sufficient for Company A to say a crucial fact had been 
misrepresented. 
So even if Mr U wasnt aware of all the other inaccuracies, the details of the lock alone would 
have been enough for the claim to be declined and the policy avoided. For this reason I dont 
think Wtj is responsible for the policy being avoided and claim declined. 
Mr U says Wtj should have told him he needed to review the policy documents after the 
policy was incepted. But as this warning was given previously by Wtj on a number of 
occasions and provided to Mr U after each quote and after inception as part of the policy 
documentation, Im satisfied Wtj met its obligations. And even if it had reiterated this again, 
Im not persuaded Mr U would have acted any differently given his lack of action when given 
the information previously. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Wtj to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman