DRN-4040413
The complaint
Mr C, on behalf of L  a limited company  is complaining about the way Allianz Insurance 
Plc has handled a claim L made on its commercial property insurance policy.
Both Mr C and Allianz have instructed agents to act on their behalf. For ease of reference, Ill 
refer to anything their agent have said or done to have done by Mr C or Allianz respectively.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr C contacted Allianz to say Ls property had suffered significant 
damage from a storm and wanted to claim for the damage on Ls commercial insurance 
policy.  In June 2022 Mr C complained to Allianz about the way it had handled the claim, as 
he was unhappy no repairs had happened, even though it was six months after the damage 
occurred.
Allianz didnt uphold this complaint as it said the cause of the delays were primarily down to 
Mr C and his agent and it raised the following:
Ls declared reinstatement cost of the property was lower than the actual reinstatement 
cost, so it said L was underinsured. It said it needed to investigate this.
It made it clear to L at the start that it needed to assess whether it was liable for the claim 
before it would agree any payments on the claim.
It said in January 2022 it asked Mr C to provide estimates for repairing the damage, but 
he didnt provide this until 27 May 2022.
Mr C still thought Allianz was responsible for the delays and said the repair costs had 
increased as a result of this. So he referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said he could only consider whats 
happened on the claim up to when Allianz issued final response letter in August 2022. He 
also said he hadnt seen anything to show that Allianz were responsible for avoidable delays. 
He acknowledged that Mr C had said it had been a stressful time for him and his mental 
health has suffered. But the investigator said Mr C wasnt the insured party  L was  so he 
couldnt take any impact the claim had on Mr C into account. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion and raised the following:
He didnt think it was fair for the investigator to say we could only consider events up to 
August 2022 as he said the only reason the claim was still ongoing was because of 
Allianzs actions;
He didnt think it was fair that the investigator said we couldnt look at the impact this 
claim has had on him. He said he was the only director of L, so he thinks it was 
inevitable the impact would be on him.
He said Allianz had handled the underinsurance unfairly. He highlighted that there was a 
significant difference between Allianzs estimate (around £1,700,000) and his 
contractors estimate (around £1,270,000). He highlighted that Allianz had unfairly 
included VAT in its assessment. He said the underinsurance settlement has been forced 
upon him, but he doesnt think its fair. 
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Ls complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr C has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way Allianz has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes 
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr C, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
What this Service can look at
As the investigator set out, this Service isnt able to consider everything Mr C has raised. 
This services role is to look at specific complaints and look to put things right where we feel 
somethings gone wrong. But we dont have the power to look at every complaint that we 
receive. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA 
Handbook.
The FCA sets out that a business must have an opportunity to resolve any complaint that a 
consumer may raise before this Service can investigate it. The complaint Mr C asked this 
Service to investigate were the alleged delays in the claim that Allianz considered in its final 
response letter of August 2023. If Mr C is unhappy with the way Allianz has handled the 
claim after this, hell need to raise a new complaint.
Further to this, I can see Mr C has also expressed concerns about the outcome of the 
underinsurance investigation  i.e. the settlement he says he was forced into accepting. 
However, I cant see that hes raised this with Allianz before. So Im unable to consider these 
concerns in this decision.
So in this decision I shall be considering whether Allianz is responsible for any delays that 
may have occurred in the handling of the claim up to August 2023.
I also have to set out that this Service is only able to take into account any loss or damage 
thats suffered by an eligible complainant. DISP 2.7 sets out who can bring a complaint to 
this Service and says a complaint must be brought by an eligible complaint. DISP 2.7.6 
sets out that to be an eligible complainant, they must have a complaint which arises from 
activities relating to a specific set of relationships with the business the consumer has 
complained aabout. In respect to Ls complaint DISP 2.7.6(5) says they are a person for 
whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken out or was intended to be taken out with or 
through the respondent.In this case, L is the sole insured party on the policy. So the policy was taken out for the 
benefit of L. I recognise Mr C is the sole director of L. But he isnt insured on the policy and 
is acting on behalf of L in the handling of the claim. So Im unable to consider any loss or 
damage  including distress and inconvenience  that hes suffered in this decision.
Are Allianz responsible for the delays in the handling of the claim?
Having reviewed the claims journey, there seem to be three issues that have delayed the 
repairs from starting, which are as follows:
a) Allianz had some concerns at the start about the information it was provided regarding 
the risk it was asked to insure. So it said it needed to investigate these issues first before 
it could agree any payments.
b) Allianz considered L to have underinsured the property in question and it said it needed 
to investigate this to understand its total liability in the claim.
c) It said the primary delays in the claim were down to Mr C not providing repair estimates 
for over four months. And it said it had concerns over the repair cost that were provided 
when Mr C did submit them.
I shall consider each point separately.
Initial validation concerns
As part of its initial investigation, Allianz had concerns over the information that was 
presented to it at the start of the policy  namely that Mr C had previously been the director 
of two businesses that had become insolvent and that the roof was 100% flat.
Ive reviewed the statement of facts which set out the information that was presented to 
Allianz at the start and it says the following:
GENERAL DETAILS
Neither you or any partner/director in connection with your Business have:  
d) been the subject of any County Court Judgement (or Scottish Equivalent) or been 
declared bankrupt or insolvent?
The statement of fact also asks whether the roof was flat and there wasnt anything 
disclosed.
Based on this, Im satisfied that it was fair for Allianz to investigate these issues as it this 
could have had implications as to whether it was liable for the claim. I note Mr C asked 
Allianz to make an interim payment while these investigations were ongoing, but given its 
investigations may have resulted in it having no liability on the claim, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for Allianz to not have agreed to make an interim payment while its 
investigations were ongoing. 
However, I can see it reviewed this matter swiftly and resolved its concerns within a week. 
So I cant see this unreasonably delayed the claim.
Underinsurance
As I said above, Im unable to comment on the outcome of Allianzs investigations into its 
underinsurance concerns as L hasnt raised this before. But I can look at whether it was entitled to have these concerns and also whether it caused any unreasonable delays while 
investigating this. I dont think it did. 
Allianz were informed when the policy started that the estimated rebuild cost for the insured 
property was £831,480. Its accepted by all parties that this was significantly lower than the 
actual amount it would cost to rebuild the property. So Allianz was entitled to investigate this 
as it has an implication on the amount of the claim its required to settle. Ill explain why this 
is the case. 
When taking out a property insurance policy, a maximum policy limit  the "sum insured"  is 
set. This limit reflects the full cost of re-building the property as this is the most an insurer 
would be required to pay in the event of a buildings claim. Generally an insurer will charge a 
higher premium for a higher sum insured as its likely to mean taking on more risk. But, 
where the sum insured is not enough to cover the cost of rebuilding the property the 
policyholder is considered to be underinsured. Insurers may look to reduce the amount 
payable by paying a proportional settlement  as set out in the Insurance Act 2015 where it 
applies  or by applying an average clause.
So, given L was underinsured, Allianzs liability was likely to be reduced because of this. So 
it was entitled to investigate the level of underinsurance to understand the extent of its 
liability on the claim and how much L would be required to cover. But it must carry out these 
investigations fairly and reasonably. 
I can see that Allianz obtained a surveyors report that calculated the rebuild cost at around 
£1,670,000. It sent this estimate to Mr C and asked him to provide his own estimate. Shortly 
afterwards, Mr C provided his own estimate which calculated the repair cost at around 
£1,270,000. Mr C also highlighted that Allianzs estimation included VAT, which it shouldnt 
have done.
I can see that Allianz considered what Mr C had said and provided and agreed it shouldnt 
have included VAT. And I understand an agreement was reached between Mr C and Allianz. 
I agree with Mr C that Allianz shouldve recognised that its estimation incorrectly included 
VAT. But I dont think L has lost out because of this as, regardless of the VAT issue, there 
wouldve been a discussion around the level of underinsurance. Ultimately, the root cause of 
this is the fact that L was underinsured. And Allianz isnt responsible for this.
Im satisfied that Allianz has been reasonably pro-active in resolving this issue and I havent 
seen anything to show that its caused avoidable delays.
Delay in appointing a contractor.
I can see that Allianz wrote to Mr C on 11 January 2022 and said the following:
Please arrange for a surveyor to be appointed or estimates to be obtained for the works 
required, these will be reviewed by our Major Loss Surveyor, please ensure the estimates 
are detailed with a minimum of three estimates for the works required.
In March 2022 Allianz became aware that Mr C was struggling to obtain a repair estimate to 
complete the work and it arranged to appoint a surveyor to inspect the property to arrange a 
scope of works. I understand the surveyor attended the property in April 2022, but was 
informed a scope of works had already been put together by a contractor Mr C appointed.
I can see that Mr C sent a repair estimate to Allianz in May 2022, but Allianz had concerns 
about the extent of the quoted repairs. Its explained that the report Mr C provided included 
works that were not damaged by the ingress of water and it thought some of the works were going to put Ls property into a better condition than it was before the event  something 
known as betterment. It also said that some of the costs were considered excessive for 
many items that were considered to be related to the water ingress. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Allianz to have these concerns and to discuss this with Mr C and his 
representatives. And I cant reasonably say that this has unreasonably delayed the claim.
Ive taken into account the concerns Allianz had and I cant say they were unreasonable. 
Ultimately, it seems to me that the primary cause for the delay  up to August 2022  in 
getting the repairs authorised is down to the fact it took Mr C four months to provide an 
estimate for the repairs. 
Ive also thought about whether it was fair for Allianz to ask Mr C to obtain repair estimates, 
rather than it obtain them itself. Its explained we asked the Insured to instruct their own 
surveyor to ensure they were confident that the surveyor / contractor was acting on their 
behalf with no conflict of interest. On losses of this nature and value we would always look 
for the Insured to arrange for their own surveyors to ensure they have confidence in any 
impartiality should any contentious issues arise. It was also known that there was 
underinsurance and therefore the Insured would be liable for a proportion of the surveyors 
fees incurred and reinstatement works required. Giving the Insured the choice of suppliers 
allowed the Insured the freedom to pick their preferred surveyors / contractors and the costs 
associated with their fees, this also allowed them to act more robustly when undertaking any 
reinstatement works, than if we were to have used a surveyor and contractor of our selection 
from the approved panel given that the Insured would be liable for a proportion of the agreed 
upon costs due to the underinsurance present.
Ive thought about what Allianz has said and I think its fair. I recognise Mr C ultimately 
struggled to find someone to do the work, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Allianz to 
have asked Mr C to source his own contractor for the reasons theyve set out.
Ultimately, while I can understand Mr Cs frustration for the length of time the claim took, I 
cant say Allianz had caused any avoidable delays in the handling of the claim up to 
August 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman