DRN-2907084
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains about the handling by Barclays Bank UK Plc of 
its application to open a new business bank account.
Mrs I, the director of F, brings the complaint on F's behalf.
What happened
In April 2021, F sought to open a new business bank account with Barclays. Mrs I applied by 
telephone. During the conversation there were a number of questions which Mrs I was 
unable to answer so a second call was arranged for a few days later. Following this second 
call, the application was submitted. A few days later, in early May, Barclays responded to 
say that it was declining Fs application.
Mrs I complained. She said that Barclays had asked irrelevant and sometimes patronising 
questions during the application process. She also said that Barclays had recognised she 
had been a personal customer of the bank for many years but hadnt taken this into account 
in the questions theyd asked or the evidence theyd required to see. She said that the 
conversations had felt like a box ticking exercise and she had no idea why her application 
had been declined.
Barclays considered the complaint but said it had done nothing wrong. It said it had followed 
its usual procedures to gather the information required to set up a new business customer 
and had assessed the application fairly. The decision to decline the application was 
appealed, but Barclays confirmed its previous decision.
Not content with this response, Mrs I brought Fs complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Fs complaint but said that, in her view, Barclays had asked 
reasonable questions and had considered Fs application fairly. She said that she couldnt 
ask Barclays to take any further action. Mrs I didnt agree with this view so asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that in the two calls between Barclays and Mrs I to complete the new account 
application, the bank asked for lots of information. Im not surprised that this would have 
been surprising for Mrs I, especially as she was already a personal customer of the bank. I 
can also appreciate that the letter declining the application would have come as a shock to 
Mrs I, particularly as no explanation was provided.
Ive looked into the process followed by Barclays in this application. I can see that it asked 
many questions but these are consistent with its legal and regulatory obligations. I can also 
see why it required information and evidence relevant to F, as the applicant for this account, 
and to Mrs I as the director of F, even if Mrs I was already a personal customer of the bank. 
While I recognise that this process might have seemed overly bureaucratic to Mrs I, I believe 
Barclays was acting reasonably in the questions it asked and the evidence it required.
Ive also considered Barclays decision to decline the application. Just as a customer can 
choose their bank, so a bank is entitled to choose its customers, but I would expect it to 
make that decision fairly. While Mrs I is a personal customer of the bank, this does not mean 
Barclays was under any obligation to accept F as its customer. 
Ive reviewed Barclays processes for considering the application, and the subsequent 
appeal when the application was considered again, and Ive seen that it followed its usual 
procedures. I havent seen anything to indicate that it treated Fs application differently to 
how it would consider a similar application from another business.
While this may be frustrating for Mrs F, I also note that Barclays is under no obligation to 
provide its reasons when it declines an application.
Overall, while I am sorry that F has been unable to open a new account with Barclays and I 
recognise the frustration felt by Mrs I through the process, I dont think Barclays has done 
anything wrong and I cant reasonably require it to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman