DRN-3237206
The complaint
Mr M complains about a secured loan he took out in March 2007. The loan was originally 
taken out with a business Ill call F. Ownership of the loan transferred to Elderbridge Limited 
in January 2016. Mr Ms unhappy interest on his loan has been supressed and there will be 
a balance remaining at the end of the term that he has no means of repaying.
  
What happened
Mr M took out a secured loan with F in March 2007 for £39,500 over a term of 25 years. 
Unfortunately, Mr M got into financial difficulties and arrears started to build up on his 
account from around May 2013. He was still finding it difficult to pay when Elderbridge took 
over the loan in January 2016. At the time there was a balance owing of around £35,780 
and arrears of around £6,000.
In early 2020 Mr M was looking to remortgage and, after taking advice from an 
independent financial adviser, approached Elderbridge about capitalising the arrears. He 
raised some concerns about information Elderbridge had given him and the time theyd 
taken to provide it. He was also unhappy he hadnt been told sooner by F or Elderbridge 
that the interest on his account had been suspended. And he thought it had made his 
financial situation worse overall.
Elderbridge explained interest on Mr Ms account was suspended in July 2014 when 
his account was with F. They apologised Mr M wasnt told about it but said suspending 
the interest had saved him money.
Elderbridge didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint so he brought the issue about the suspended 
interest to this service. Our investigator didnt think Elderbridge had done anything wrong. 
Since Mr M didnt agree I reviewed everything afresh and recently issued a provisional 
decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr Ms original complaint covered his concerns about delays in providing 
information and advice he says Elderbridge gave about capitalisation. I understand hes 
complained about other issues as well. To be clear, this provisional decision relates only to 
Mr Ms complaint about the interest on his account being suspended and that he wasnt 
told about it.
Unfortunately, Mr M was struggling to pay his loan and fell into arrears from around May 
2013 onwards. By July 2014 the arrears were around £2,300. What would normally have 
happened is that the arrears would have been added to the balance of the loan. That 
would have increased the balance on which Mr M was then paying interest. Since his 
contractual monthly payments were made up of capital and interest, that meant he would 
have been paying interest on interest  compound interest.
To prevent that happening, in 2014 F stopped adding the unpaid interest to the loan as a 
concession. Any payments Mr M then made went towards paying the capital and arrears. If 
they reduced, so would the interest charged on them month on month. Simple interest 
continued to accrue on the loan. This was put into a separate account and still has to be 
paid in due course. Elderbridge have explained that Mr Ms payments will be applied to the 
interest once the capital balance has been paid in full.
Mr M is unhappy F and Elderbridge didnt explain the arrangement to him. Im not making 
any findings here about Fs decision to supress the interest or their later actions. I can 
only look at the complaint against Elderbridge from the time they took over the loan in 
January 2016.
The records Ive seen suggest Elderbridge first discussed the supressed interest with     
Mr M in January 2018 and sent him a statement of his account from March 2007 showing 
around £9,145 interest had accrued by that time. I think he knew about the supressed 
interest from that time onwards.
From what Ive seen so far, it looks as if Mr M would have found it difficult to pay off any of 
the interest that was being supressed. Thats because he was finding it difficult to make 
payments consistently, which suggests paying any more would have been unaffordable for 
him. I dont think Mr Ms been disadvantaged by not knowing about the supressed interest 
until more recently. But that doesnt mean there wasnt an impact on him when he found 
out about the separate interest account in 2018. I can understand that will have come as 
an unwelcome surprise.
Elderbridge argue there was no regulatory requirement for them to tell Mr M or to send him 
statements given his loan is an unregulated second charge loan. But Elderbridge was within 
our compulsory jurisdiction at the relevant time; Mr Ms loan is a loan secured on land; and 
Mr M was in financial difficulties. So, I think the mortgage rules about how businesses 
should treat customers in financial difficulties apply here. In any event, Elderbridge is 
subject to the Financial Conduct Authority high level principles which require them to pay 
due regard to Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly; and to pay due regard to Mr Ms 
information needs and communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading.
I think it would have been fair to Mr M if Elderbridge had let him know about the supressed 
interest and what he owed overall when they took over his account and started discussing it 
with him in 2016. To compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as 
a result of their failure to do so, I think Elderbridge should pay Mr M compensation of £150.
This service doesnt audit or carry out a forensic examination of loan agreements. From the 
transaction history, I cant see any unusual activity. Elderbridge have explained Mr M will 
have paid less by the end of the term than he would have paid if the arrears had been 
added to his account. If Mr Ms unhappy with the explanation and figures theyve provided, 
its open to him to instruct an independent and suitably qualified professional to review his 
account at his own expense. If Mr M chose to do that and any errors were found, he could 
complain about those separately. And any costs hed incurred could be considered as part 
of putting things right if his complaint was upheld.
Going forwards Id expect Elderbridge to keep in contact with Mr M to discuss what he can 
afford to pay each month in order to ensure, as far as possible, hes able to pay off 
everything he owes under the loan by the end of the term.Bearing everything in mind, I intend to uphold this complaint in part and to direct 
Elderbridge to pay Mr M compensation of £150. As Ive said, Ill consider any more 
information the parties provide by the deadline above before coming to my final decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Elderbridge 
Limited to pay Mr M compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Mr M accepted my provisional decision and Elderbridge didnt make any comments on it. 
So I see no reason to change my conclusions. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. 
Putting things right
Elderbridge should pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I direct Elderbridge Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
within 28 days of him accepting this decision, should he choose to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman