DRN-4216827
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy how Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance 
handled his request for help following the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr D acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle. The 
agreement was for 60 months, with an initial payment of £565.63, 58 monthly repayments of 
£515.63 and a final payment of £565.63.
In March 2020 Mr D contacted Oodle as he had been furloughed from work because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and he was experiencing some financial difficulties as a result. A series 
of payment deferrals were put in place for Mr D  and how Oodle dealt with these has 
already been looked at by our service and a final decision has previously been issued. 
In early 2022 Mr D was working again. He got in touch with Oodle and requested to spread 
the payment deferrals over the remaining term of the agreement. Oodle said this wasnt 
possible  they said the arrears would need to be paid over a shorter period. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this and complained to Oodle. They sent Mr D a final response letter 
explaining the same as he had been told by their collections department. They could only 
arrange for the arrears to be paid over a shorter period than Mr D would like. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. He said the Financial 
Conduct Authority had issued guidance in July 2020 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
This guidance explained that businesses should allow the deferred payments to be spread 
over the remaining term of the agreement if it wasnt possible for them to be paid 
immediately and in full. Our investigator said he didnt think Oodle had adhered to this 
guidance, and he asked them to allow Mr D to repay his deferred payments over the 
remainder of his agreement term. He also asked Oodle to remove any adverse information 
from Mr Ds credit file that related to the deferred payments. Finally, he asked Oodle to pay 
Mr D £200 compensation for the upset hed been caused by Oodles communication with 
him. 
Oodle accepted our investigators opinion in full. Mr D accepted it in part. He was satisfied 
that he could now pay his deferred payments across the remaining term of his agreement. 
But he felt he should receive more compensation  he mentioned an amount of £2,000. He 
also said he had been charged increased interest on subsequent credit, and he would find it 
difficult to get a mortgage, because of the information recorded on his credit file by Oodle. 
As Mr D didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with the car under a hire 
purchase agreement. As this is a regulated consumer credit agreement, our service can look 
into complaints about it. 
Both parties have accepted our investigators recommendation for the payment deferrals to 
be spread across the remaining term of the agreement and, for completeness sake, I also 
think thats a fair way to resolve that aspect of the complaint. Whats left in dispute is the 
amount of compensation Mr D should receive. Ive decided that £200 is reasonable in this 
case. Ill explain why.
In Mr Ds submissions to our service explaining why he feels he should be awarded more 
compensation, hes made it clear that he feels the award in this case is miniscule compared 
to the impact Oodles actions have had on him. Hes requested a significant amount of 
compensation as a result. I want to make it clear to Mr D that it isnt our role to punish 
businesses, nor are we the regulator. 
Oodle have accepted our investigators opinion and have accepted they initially made a 
mistake by not agreeing to Mr Ds request to spread his arrears across the remaining term of 
the agreement. Having looked through the account notes provided by Oodle its clear there 
was a lot of communication between Mr D and Oodle to try and sort this (and other) matters 
out. And, at times, Oodle did give Mr D incorrect information that led to him having to get 
back in contact with them. But Mr D hasnt provided enough evidence for me to believe that 
an increase in the compensation amount is warranted in this case. Im satisfied that £200 is 
a reasonable amount for Oodle to pay to reflect the extended time this matter took to reach a 
resolution and the inconvenience to Mr D of numerous calls and emails to Oodle to try and 
move things forward. 
Mr D has also said that he has had to pay increased interest charges on subsequent credit, 
and that his ability to get a mortgage in future will, more than likely, be impacted by Oodles 
reporting on his credit file. Here, I have to say that lenders base their decisions to lend on 
several criteria. Mr D hasnt said specifically why he was required to accept credit at higher 
interest rates. Our investigator has also asked Mr D to provide some further evidence from 
the lenders to explain the specific reasons, and he hasnt done that. This means that there 
isnt anything to show me that any incorrect information reported by Oodle is the only reason 
Mr D was offered the credit at a higher rate of interest. So, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that Mr D has lost out financially because of Oodles error. Similarly, Mr D has 
said that his ability to obtain a mortgage has been ended by Oodle. But I havent seen 
anything to persuade me of this, so wont be considering it further. 
I appreciate my decision might be disappointing to Mr D, but I wont be asking Oodle to 
increase the compensation award recommended by our investigator. My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as 
Oodle Car Finance must:
Allow Mr D to repay all his deferred payments across the remaining term of his 
agreement. 
Remove any adverse information in relation to the deferred payments from Mr Ds 
credit file. 
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him trying to remedy 
this situation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman