DRN-3189200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA hasnt settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a travel insurance policy through a bank account. The insurer was Inter 
Partner. Mr and Mrs P booked a holiday abroad through a travel agent in September 2019. 
The holiday was due to start on 23 September 2020.
Before the holiday was due to start, Mr and Mrs P became aware that their intended holiday 
destination required tourists to provide a negative Covid-19 test result on arrival, obtained 72 
hours before departure. Mr and Mrs P say they couldnt book a test as none were available. 
So, on 11 September 2020, Mr and Mrs P changed their holiday destination to a country that 
didnt require tourists to provide a negative Covid-19 test result on arrival. 
Mr and Mrs P paid a total of £300 in rebooking fees to change their holiday. They made a 
claim to Inter Partner for this cost, but it declined Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Inter Partner said 
that rebooking fees were only covered in certain situations. And the situation Mr and Mrs P 
found themselves in wasnt one of the insured events under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P say their policy covers rebooking fees in situations where theyve had to 
change their holiday destination due to no fault of their own making. So, they brought a 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Inter Partner had done anything 
wrong when it declined the claim. This was because the reason Mr and Mrs P incurred the 
rebooking fees wasnt something the policy covered, so there wasnt an insured event under 
the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators findings. They dont think Inter Partner has 
acted fairly in the circumstances. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy says the following about rebooking fees:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Benefit Schedule for rebooking fees if, due 
to an incident covered by Section C  Cancellation, you chose to rebook your covered 
holiday instead of cancelling.
The incidents covered by Section C  Cancellation are:
1 Unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, a close business associate 
or any person with whom you are travelling or staying during your trip.
2 Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a Court of 
Law (other than in an advisory capacity) or you or any person with whom you are travelling 
or have arranged to travel with.
3 Redundancy (which qualifies for payment under the current redundancy payment 
legislation in the United Kingdom and at the time of booking your trip there was no reason 
to believe anyone would be made redundant) of you or any person with whom you are 
travelling or have arranged to travel with.
4 The withdrawal of leave for members of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department, provided that such 
cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time of 
receiving these benefits or booking your trip (whichever is later).
5 The policy requesting you to remain at or subsequently return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, 
malicious persons or theft.
6 You having your passport or visa stolen in a burglary within seven days of your scheduled 
departure date and you cannot obtain a replacement in time.
7 Your pet dog or cat requiring life-saving treatment within seven days of your scheduled 
departure date.
Mr and Mrs P changed their holiday destination, and incurred rebooking fees, because they 
say they werent able to book Covid-19 tests to demonstrate a negative result as required by 
the country they were intending to travel to. Thats not one of the specific listed insured 
events under the above terms. The cancellation section does refer to circumstances beyond 
the policyholders control  but only as a result of any changes in circumstances listed 
above.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I dont think Inter Partner has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining their claim. This is because the reason they rebooked their trip 
isnt an insured event under the relevant policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman