DRN-2840096
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account and converted the 
cryptocurrency in his various wallets without his permission; returning the proceeds to him 
and a third party. 
What happened
Revolut blocked Mr Bs account on 27 December 2019 in order to undertake a review. At the 
time Mr B held three different cryptocurrency wallets, as well as a balance of £216.61. 
Following the block Revolt asked Mr B to provide some information to help with its review, 
which he did. 
The account remained blocked though and Mr B chased Revolut for updates through the 
chat service. Unhappy with the lack of clear response and the fact his account was still 
blocked, Mr B complained to Revolut in January 2020. He received a final response on 21 
January 2020. In this response Revolut explained that in order to protect customers and their 
accounts it sometimes has to carry out reviews. It let Mr B know his account would remain 
under review at that time and it couldnt provide any further details or timescales. It assured 
him he would receive a response once the process was complete. 
On 27 January 2020 Revolut exchanged Mr Bs cryptocurrency into GBP (£) and sent some 
of the proceeds of this back to source  this was an account in the name of someone Ill 
refer to as P. The rest of the proceeds of the exchange remained in Mr Bs account as 
Revolut has said the review was still ongoing. 
Mr B was unaware this had happened and continued to chase Revolut for updates, as well 
as raising his complaint with this service. 
By 12 February 2020 the review was complete. Revolut let Mr B know his account was to be 
closed immediately. It sent him a statement and clarified that his cryptocurrency had been 
converted on 27 January 2020 and the money had been returned to the source accounts  
this being Ps account and Mr Bs top up card.  
Mr B emailed Revolut on 13 February 2020 letting it know he was unhappy it had exchanged 
his cryptocurrency without his permission and sent some of this back to P on 27 January 
2020, despite it continuously telling him his account was still under review and the money 
frozen. He said it exchanged his cryptocurrency at the time when the rate was the cheapest 
and most beneficial to Revolut. 
Revolut responded on 25 February 2020 to say that the cryptocurrency exchange took place 
when the investigation from the concerned team was finished (this being 27 January 2020) 
and had nothing to do with what the rate was at that time. It said it had returned the money 
to source as per its internal procedure and couldnt disclose any more details. 
Mr B has pointed out that in this email Revolut confirmed its investigation was complete on 
27 January 2020, yet it didnt return the rest of the money to him until 12 February 2020. He 
says this delay prevented him from reinvesting this money sooner, causing him more than a 
£2,000 loss. Mr B explained that it took him until June 2020 to get the other money back 
from P, therefore causing him further losses and inconvenience. 
There also appears to have been some confusion in the email exchanges between Mr B and 
Revolut, where Mr B believes Revolut indicated his top up card was linked to P. This isnt the 
case, the money was returned to Ps account and Mr Bs top up card  these being two 
separate accounts. 
In summary, Mr B complains that Revolut blocked his account for as long as it did, converted 
his cryptocurrency without his permission and then delayed sending this all back to him 
directly on 27 January 2020. He says is aware regulations exist that allow Revolut to freeze 
an account for 35 days. But it doesnt mean Revolut can use this to manipulate customers 
until they give up, and then do as it pleases with the money to suit its own purposes. He 
says Revolut should compensate him for the losses hes suffered, totalling £2,130.44, as a 
result of it constantly breaking financial laws and procedures. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. She concluded that Revolut was entitled to block 
and review Mr Bs account, and ultimately close it. She was satisfied Revolut hadnt caused 
any delays and despite what Revoluts email on 25 February 2020 said, whilst part of the 
review had been completed on 27 January 2020, enabling the exchange of the 
cryptocurrency and return of some of the money to P, the overall review was still ongoing. 
Therefore, Revolut hadnt made a mistake in not returning the rest of the money to Mr B until 
12 February 2020. She also concluded that Revolut was adhering to its legal and regulatory 
obligations when converting the cryptocurrency and returning some of the money to P. 
Therefore, she wasnt able to conclude Revolut had made an error and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr B disagreed. He referenced other customers who had suffered the same treatment from 
Revolut, with it keeping hold of their money for 6 to 12 months and returning it to third 
parties. He asked which UK law allows Revolut to do this and maintained that, having 
spoken to a solicitor, it has no authority in law to do so. He also continued to dispute that the 
investigation was ongoing after 27 January 2020 when Revolut exchanged his 
cryptocurrency and sent some of this money to P. He says Revolut wouldnt transfer this 
money to P without the investigation being completed. Therefore, through this delay and 
sending some of the money to P, Revolut had caused him a loss. 
Our investigator let Mr B know that there are various UK primary and secondary laws, as 
well as regulations set by the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) and that he 
could find out more through his own research. And because Mr B disagreed, she arranged 
for the complaint to be passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. As our investigator explained, Mr B can conduct his own 
research into these. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and 
closed.  If Revolut didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied Revolut was within its rights to block Mr Bs account andcarry out a review. It was also entitled to close his account. It did so in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and, having reviewed the terms and conditions, it did so in line with 
these too. Revolut has the discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr B can 
choose who to bank with. 
Mr B has explained how he was impacted by the block, so Ive looked at whether Revolut 
couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything differently, including exchanging his 
cryptocurrency and returning some of this money to P. 
In order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations reviews can take varying degrees 
of time. And having looked at what happened in Mr Bs case, Im satisfied Revolut completed 
its review within a timely manner and without any undue delays. 
Following the email Revolut sent him on 25 February 2020, Mr B believes Revoluts 
investigation was complete by 27 January 2020 when it exchanged his cryptocurrency and 
sent some of this to P. I can understand the confusion here given how the email was 
worded. However, from what Ive seen, Im happy the review was still ongoing at this stage. 
It is true that part of the review was completed at that point, which led Revolut to exchange 
the cryptocurrency and return some of this money to P. However, the overall review 
continued until 12 February 2020. At that point Revolut returned the remaining money to Mr 
B. Therefore, Revolut didnt make an error or delay the transfer of the rest of the money to 
Mr B. 
Revolut was entitled to convert the cryptocurrency on 27 January 2020 and Ive seen nothing 
to suggest it did so to deliberately disadvantage Mr B due to the rate at the time. It was also 
entitled to return some of the funds to Ps account, given this is where it had originally come 
from. It completed both the conversion and return of the funds in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter and the fact he may have 
been impacted by Revoluts actions, Im unable to conclude it did anything wrong in how it 
handled the review of Mr Bs account. I therefore wont be recommending Revolut do 
anything to compensate him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman