DRN-3068598
The complaint
Mr R complains of a series of card related problems with Bank of Scotland plc trading as
Halifax Building Society.
What happened
Mr Rs chip and Personal Identification Number (PIN) debit card stopped working, so Mr R
contacted Halifax about this. Halifax said they would order him a new card and PIN, but he
didnt receive his card.
Mr R visited a branch to inform Halifax that he hadnt received his new card. He says the
branch staff told him to wait a few days for it. Mr R did not receive the card so went back to
the branch to find out what had happened. The branch told him that the card had not been
approved and they ordered him a new card.
Mr R received two cards. One which was contactless, which he had previously requested not
to receive and another chip and PIN debit card. The PIN he received didnt work for the chip
and PIN card, so he complained to Halifax.
Halifax upheld his complaint and apologised. They paid Mr R £147 for the errors. They paid
£125 for how this affected him, £12 to cover his call costs and £10 to cover his taxi fare to
the branch.
Halifax cancelled Mr Rs contactless card and sent him a new PIN. But the PIN didnt work
so Mr R complained to Halifax. They upheld his complaint. Halifax explained the PIN wasnt
linked to his chip and PIN card, so they had sent him a new PIN number linked to the correct
card. They paid Mr R £75 for how this affected him, £18 to cover his call costs and £20 to
cover his taxi fare to the branch.
Mr R was also unhappy that as a result of the aforementioned delays and problems
he had to visit the branch to resolve these issues and withdraw cash in person. Mr R made a
complaint to Halifax regarding this. He said not all places take cash as a result of the
pandemic. Halifax upheld Mr Rs complaint and paid him a further £108 compensation.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Mr R informed our investigator that he had
received his PIN and that worked at the cash machine, but his card was declined in a
supermarket which caused him embarrassment. He contacted Halifax about this and asked
them to update their system with a note about this.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said the compensation that Halifax
had awarded Mr R was broadly in line with what this service might award in similar
circumstances and therefore she thought the compensation Halifax paid Mr R was fair and
reasonable.
Mr R asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the compensation that he
had been paid by Halifax was nowhere near enough for making several trips to the branch
and having to withdraw cash over the counter whilst he was unable to use his debit card. He
said when he spoke with Halifax about his card declining in the supermarket, Halifax were
willing to consider additional compensation, but they hadnt as his complaint was with our
service. Mr R wanted extra compensation for this.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr R has said regarding his card declining in the supermarket. I asked
Halifax for their comments regarding what Mr R had said about them being willing to offer
him additional compensation for this. Halifax said they had reviewed Mr Rs phone calls with
them. Halifax said at no point did they say they were willing to consider an additional amount
due to the embarrassment of his card being declined in the supermarket.
Halifax said that Mr R did contact them on 7 May 2021 and he was unhappy that his card
had been declined in the supermarket, but Mr R had been able to use the cash machine
successfully earlier in the day, so it didnt appear there was a problem with his card or PIN.
Halifax said that Mr R asked for them to make a note of this on the system and the call
handler did this.
In light of this information, I looked at Halifaxs system notes. I can see that there is a note
on his file regarding this which says customer called about having issues with his PIN, (he)
says it worked at cash machine but when he went to supermarket today it declined. No
decline code showing. Advised customer to try again at cash machine to see if it works.
Customer wanted note added about this. Halifax said that they couldnt see any transaction
attempts at the supermarket that day and so wouldnt be upholding this part of Mr Rs
complaint.
I asked to see Mr Rs card activity log so I could see if Halifax did decline the transaction that
day. I can see that Mr R did successfully make a withdrawal at a cash machine but there is
no attempt showing on the card activity log that Mr R attempted to make a transaction at a
supermarket. This doesnt mean that the transaction wasnt declined, just that it wasnt
Halifaxs error. I say this as the transaction would have been showing on the card activity log
whether it was approved or not if the supermarket had attempted to contact Halifax to take
the funds for his attempted purchase. So it may be a result of the supermarkets equipment
or systems that the purchase wasnt successful. But the evidence shows that this wasnt an
error on Halifaxs behalf and they did not decline Mr Rs transaction.
Ive considered what Mr R has said regarding the compensation he already received from
Halifax and this wasnt enough. Im pleased to see that Halifax has paid Mr Rs costs for
phone calls and taxis to the branch. So Im not persuaded that Mr R has had a financial loss
here. But Im persuaded that Mr R has been inconvenienced by visiting the branch as a
result of the errors. Then he has been further inconvenienced when the situation wasnt
resolved in the first instance. He may have also suffered embarrassment and distress as a
result of needing to borrow money from other people when he didnt have access to money
from his debit card.
So Ive thought about how much Halifax have paid him. Ignoring his costs, they have paid Mr
R a total of £308 for his inconvenience and distress. Ive noted the strength of feeling that MrR has, that this is not enough. But this would be broadly in line with what our service would
have awarded him had Halifax not upheld his complaints. Im persuaded that it reflects the
impact of the errors Halifax have caused Mr R as they kept paying him fair and reasonable
compensation after each error. So it follows that I dont intend to ask Halifax to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Halifax accepted my provisional decision. Mr R had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman