DRN-4240195
The complaint
Miss C complained that she didnt receive a refund from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) when she cancelled her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C cancelled her insurance with Admiral because she no longer needed the policy. 
Admiral agreed to cancel the policy and provide a refund. A couple of months later Miss C 
followed up with Admiral because she hadnt received the refund. Admiral said it had 
refunded the money to the card Miss C had used to pay for the policy. Miss C told Admiral 
she no longer had that card, as it had expired, and hadnt received the money. Admiral said 
it had followed its normal procedure and that the money might be in the card issuers holding 
account. It said it would only provide a cheque for the money once the payment had come 
back as a rejected refund.
Miss C contacted both her bank that issued the card and the payment network. Both 
confirmed to Miss C that they didnt have the funds. Admiral continued to say it wouldnt 
refund the money.
When Miss C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
Miss C had provided evidence that she hadnt received the payment and Admiral hadnt 
provided evidence the payment had been made. She said Admiral should refund the money 
to Miss C by cheque.
As Admiral didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Admiral agreed to refund Miss Cs premium. It refunded the money to a card that had 
expired. Admiral has provided its payment screens for the refund and also another 
screenshot that it says shows the refund was not rejected. It told Miss C to contact the 
payment network as the refund would be in a holding account.
Miss C has shown that the money didnt reach her bank account. She has also contacted 
her bank, who issued the card, and the payment network. They confirmed that they dont 
have the money and arent holding the funds.
Admiral hasnt shown that the money reached a holding account. Miss C has also got 
confirmation that the money isnt in a holding account. In the circumstances, in my view, its 
fair and reasonable that Admiral refund the money to Miss C by cheque. Admiral must also 
pay interest on the refund as Miss C lost use of the money.
Putting things right
Admiral should refund £63.16 to Miss C by cheque and pay interest on that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
refund Miss C £63.16 by cheque
pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 25 November 2022 to the date on which it 
makes the payment by cheque.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman