DRN-2711142
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reduced his credit limit 
without giving him sufficient notice.
What happened
Barclaycard wriote to Mr W on 20 July 2020 to inform him that his credit limit was being 
reduced from £8,300 to £3,050 on 22 July 2020. Mr W says he received this letter on 23 July 
2020 so effectively Barclaycard had given him no notice of the credit limit decrease. Mr W 
also felt that this letter inferred that his account showed he had missed payments or late 
payments which he said wasnt accurate. He then asked them to close his account.
Mr W complained to Barclaycard and said that he was given zero notice of the credit limit 
reduction and said texts that Barclaycard sent him informing him of his credit limit reduction 
were received five days after the credit limit reduction. He said he had spoken to a 
Barclaycard agent who told him that Barclaycard had known of the credit limit reduction 
since 25 June 2020 but had not informed him that they were going to reduce his credit limit. 
He gave Barclaycard an example that couldve impacted him if he had been overseas when 
they sent the letter to his address, that he couldve intended to use the Barclaycard for 
purchases abroad such as hiring a car and the implications this wouldve had when 
Barclaycard wouldve declined the transaction because theyd reduced the credit limit.
Barclaycard did not uphold his complaint. They said that his credit limit had been reduced 
from £8,300 to £3,450 and the limit had been reduced as a result of a review of his 
Barclaycard account history and information from credit reference agencies. They added that 
they looked at things like the level of borrowing he had. 
Barclaycard did say that they gave him very little notice of the credit limit reduction but they 
explained that there are occasions when they have to change a credit limit with little or no 
prior warning to make sure they are lending responsibly. 
Finally Barclaycard apologised to Mr W if he felt that the credit limit reduction letter 
insinuated that his account showed missed or late payments as that wasnt their intention. 
They said it is part of their internal policy that they dont currently provide specific 
explanations for each credit limit reduction on an individual basis.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said he had been in contact with the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding the lack of notice Barclaycard gave him and while they 
have no specific rules in the Financial Services Handbook that covers his situation this it 
doesn't mean that information about changes to his account, including a reduction in his 
credit limit shouldn't be communicated to him in good time, to provide him with the 
opportunity to review the changes and what these may mean for him. Mr W asked the 
investigator if he could ask Barclaycard to acknowledge that he had a good credit rating, 
hadnt missed payments and acknowledge that they gave him zero notice of the credit limit 
reduction.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that Barclaycard acted within their 
terms and conditions and there was no financial detriment to Mr W by Barclaycard reducing 
his credit limit. He also said he wasnt going to ask Barclaycard to acknowledge what Mr W 
said about his credit score/missed payments as the decision they took was based on credit 
usage as demonstrated by his credit file. Our investigator also said he wouldnt ask 
Barclaycard to acknowledge they gave him no notice of the credit limit reduction as the final 
response letter Barclaycard sent him explained they could give little or no notice when 
reducing the credit limit.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that although Barclaycard 
may have acted within their terms and conditions this does not mean they were fair in 
reducing the credit limit with no notice and that Barclaycards insinuation that he had missed 
payments or had late payments isnt acceptable to him. He also said that he realises our 
service has no jurisdiction over certain areas and would need to raise these with the FCA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to both Barclaycard and this service and Ive considered 
and read everything hes sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ill start by explaining that its not the role of this service to say how a business should run 
their credit limit reduction process as this falls outside of this services jurisdiction. However, 
Ive looked to see if Barclaycard have followed their own process in reducing Mr Ws credit 
limit and Im satisfied they have and that they havent treated Mr W unfairly, even if he 
doesnt see it this way. Ill explain why below.
Barclaycard have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. So while Mr W thinks its 
unfair theyve gave him little or no notice of the credit limit reduction to his Barclaycard, Im 
not persuaded that they were unreasonable here. I say this as when Mr W was accepted for 
the Barclaycard account he would have agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. 
For changes relating to the credit limit (section 8 of the terms and conditions), Mr W would 
have agreed by accepting the terms and conditions that Barclaycard could reduce the credit 
limit based on an assessment of risk or his ability to repay and they could do so without 
notice. And thats what they did here. They used information from his credit file and 
determined they wouldnt be a responsible lender by keeping his credit limit the same as 
before the assessment. So even if Barclaycard gave him no notice or intended to reduce his 
limit weeks prior to when they actually did, which Mr W believes they did, then they were 
within their rights to take the actions that they did here.
As Mr Ws correspondence with the FCA confirms, there are no rules in the FCA handbook 
relating to credit card limit reductions. I know he thinks the rules for credit card limits should 
be similar to overdrafts, but these are different types of lending. As Mr W is aware, the role 
of the Ombudsman is not as a regulator, but to assess the merits of his complaint. 
I thought about what Mr W said about how he couldve been overseas, trying to hire a car 
and pay for this on his Barclaycard. He may be unaware that his credit limit wouldve been 
reduced and this would impact him if the transaction was declined. Then he would need to 
contact Barclaycard to find out what happened. But its only reasonable that I consider what 
actually happened as opposed to what potentially couldve happened. And based on what 
happened Im not persuaded that Barclaycard were unreasonable in the actions they took.Ive looked at that the letter informing Mr W that his credit limit would be reducing. 
Barclaycard said they would reduce his limit credit limit to £3,050 on 22 July 2020. But this 
didnt happen. His credit limit was reduced to £3,450 instead. So I asked Barclaycard why 
this was. Barclaycard said their intention was to reduce Mr Ws credit limit to £3,050 on 22 
July 2020 as per the 20 July 2020 notification letter. But it was no longer reduced to £3050 
as his balance including his pending transactions had exceeded £3,050 as of 22 July 2020. 
In line with the terms of the account they wouldnt reduce the limit below the outstanding 
balance. So I am satisfied that Mr W wasnt financially disadvantaged by Barclaycard 
reducing his credit limit here. 
Next, Ive looked at the letter Mr W was sent by Barclaycard as I know he thinks they have 
insinuated that he has missed payments or been late with payments. But Im not persuaded 
that the letter confirms this is the reason why they reduced his credit limit. I say this as under 
the section Why the change it states, we want to make sure that no ones borrowing more 
than they can comfortably afford, so we can keep an eye on your account and check your 
credit limit. Although the letter also explains that they look at things like missed payments or 
if payments have been late, Im not persuaded that they are insinuating that this is the 
reason for the actions they took as the letter also says they check in with credit reference 
agencies.
As Barclaycard explained to Mr W in their final response letter that its their internal process 
that they dont provide specific explanations for each reduction on an individual basis then 
this is why Im satisfied theyve given possible reasons as opposed to the specific reason for 
why they would reduce a customers credit limit. So Im not persuaded Barclaycard are 
saying that Mr W has missed payments or made late payments.
Barclaycard have a duty to ensure they lend responsibly. Based on the information available 
to them they felt that keeping Mr Ws credit limit at the level it previously was could be 
irresponsible, even if Mr W had always made his payments on time. So while they reduced 
the credit limit, Im not persuaded that this was unreasonable in the circumstances. So it 
follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman