DRN-4368184
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined his claim under his 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr M held a policy with Aviva. He made a claim when he discovered that his bath was 
leaking. It sent an engineer (after Mr M had paid the excess of £30) who found that the 
damage wasnt covered under the policy. So, Aviva declined the claim. 
Mr M complained to Aviva as he believed that the policy covered leaks. He also complained 
that he shouldnt have been charged the excess fee, as the engineer didnt resolve the 
issue. In its final response, Aviva maintained its position. It said that the damage wasnt 
covered under the policy, as the bath would be classed as an electrical appliance connected 
to, or part of the plumbing. It also said that as an engineer attended to investigate the 
damage, the excess charge was correctly applied. 
Mr M remained unhappy and as he had been given his referral rights, he referred a 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it 
should be upheld. He said that Aviva had correctly applied the terms of the policy. And the 
terms were clear in that it didnt cover the damage to the bath. He also agreed that the 
excess had been correctly charged. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask 
Aviva to do. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr M did not. He said that as he had had a successful claim two 
years ago, he wanted a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint is whether Aviva was fair to have declined the claim and correctly 
charged Mr M the excess payment. 
Aviva said that the reason it declined Mr Ms claim was because the damage that had 
occurred to his bath wasnt covered under the policy terms. So, Ive had a look at the terms 
and conditions to see what it states regarding whirlpool baths, which is what Mr Ms bath 
was. 
Ive reviewed the policy to see what it covers. It states that cover is limited to plumbing, 
drainage and water supply. In the insurance product information document (IPID) it states 
that leaking pipes within your home are covered. However, on page 11 of the document (in 
addition to page 15), under the plumbing and drainage updates exclusions it states: 
Plumbing and Drainage  Updated exclusions to make it clear that electrical appliances 
(built into the plumbing system), water filters, heating problems and some central heating 
components are not part of the plumbing cover.
Mr M accepts that his bath is a whirlpool bath and from the Avivas engineers report, the 
section that was leaking was connected to electrical wires, that were also connected to the 
bath panel, that made access difficult to achieve. 
Im satisfied that the bath had an electrical appliance (built into the plumbing system namely 
the bath) and as such, this wasnt covered under the policy terms. I also find that the term is 
very clear. Consequently, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable or unfair to decline Mr Ms 
claim. 
Ive next looked at whether Aviva ought to have charged Mr M an excess. The policy terms 
make it clear that when a claim is made, an excess charge is payable. In addition, Aviva sent 
an engineer, who carried out investigations and the policy states that once this is done the 
excess in non-refundable: 
Excess payment(s) will be refunded if the claim is cancelled prior to the engineer attending 
or the engineer does not start any investigative work due to the problem not being covered. 
However, if investigation is undertaken and the engineer confirms the problem cannot be 
resolved under the policy, your excess will not be refunded and this will count as a claim 
towards any claims limit. 
So, I think Aviva fulfilled its obligations under the policy, and I think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to charge the attributable excess. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mr M. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that Aviva acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman