DRN-2604007
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has voided (cancelled) her commercial 
property insurance policy and has declined a claim she made for malicious damage caused 
by one of her tenants.
What happened
Mrs R owns a number of properties she lets to tenants. In early December 2018 she took out 
residential property owner insurance with Fairmead. In late December 2018 she contacted 
Fairmead to make a claim for malicious damage caused by a tenant at one of her properties. 
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and validate the claim. The loss 
adjuster visited about 10 days later and reported to Fairmead that the property had 5 tenants 
and was let as a house of multiple occupancy. She reported that on 30 December 2018 one 
of the tenants started to smash up the bathrooms and generally went on a rampage. Another 
tenant called the police and the tenant causing the damage was detained. She also noted 
that in addition to the main kitchen, three of the bedrooms included a small kitchenette. 
Fairmead considered the report against the policy terms. It also asked its loss adjuster to 
investigate a number of other concerns. In early April 2019 Fairmead took the decision to 
void Mrs Rs policy due to a breach of use. Fairmead said that Mrs R had confirmed during 
the sale of the policy that individual bedrooms werent to be used for cooking yet the loss 
adjuster had reported several of the rooms contained kitchenettes with full cooking facilities. 
Fairmead said that it wouldnt have accepted the risk and offered the policy to Mrs R if itd 
known this to be the case.  
Mrs R complained to Fairmead about the decision to void her policy. Fairmead looked into 
Mrs Rs complaint but said its decision to do so was fair and reasonable and was 
communicated to her broker in a timely manner. Mrs R had also complained that shed not 
received formal written notification from Fairmead about the decision to void her policy. 
Fairmead said it asked its underwriters to arrange for her to receive a formal written 
response.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Fairmeads investigation, Mrs R complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He thought 
Fairmead hadnt unfairly or unreasonably voided Mrs Rs policy or declined her claim. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment it will cause Mrs R, I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
voidance of policy
As a commercial policyholder Mrs R was under a duty (under the Insurance Act 2015) to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to Fairmead when taking out the policy. That means 
she was required to take reasonable steps to check any information available to her and 
consider if theres anything she ought to be disclosing. 
So, I need to consider whether Mrs R gave a fair presentation to Fairmead of everything she 
knew  or ought to have known  about the risk she wanted to insure. 
Fairmead have referred to the following question which was asked at inception of Mrs Rs 
policy at the beginning of December 2018:
Is cooking only allowed in rooms designated as kitchens? Yes
Neither Fairmead nor Mrs R dispute that she answered yes to the above question. Yet 
when Mrs R reported the claim, Fairmeads loss adjuster reported that several of the rooms 
included kitchenettes with full cooking facilities (including microwaves, single mini oven and 
two-ring electric hob). Fairmead thought that the facilities were such that a full meal could be 
cooked in the room. 
Ive seen the photographs taken by the loss adjuster and can see what she reported. Ive 
noted too what Mrs R has said which is that she didnt supply any cooking facilities in the 
rooms. But I cant ignore that the loss adjuster reported that Mrs Rs husband said that he 
wanted to claim for fryers used in the bedrooms. Its reasonable to think from this comment 
that if Mr and Mrs R wanted to claim for fryers in the bedrooms that they were aware some 
form of cooking was taking place on those fryers (at the minimum) and that the answer to the 
above question should reasonably have been no. I think the mention of the fryers taken 
together with the existence, in at least one of the rooms, of a mini oven, microwave and two-
ring hob was enough evidence for Fairmead to reasonably decide that Mrs R hadnt given a 
fair presentation of the risk she wanted to insure when she answered the above question in 
the affirmative. 
So, I now need to decide what would have happened if Mrs R had given fair a disclosure of 
the risk. Ive looked at what Fairmead has said to us and can see that it considered Mrs Rs 
omission to be reckless. And it has provided us with evidence from its underwriters that if the 
above question had been answered correctly with a no then it wouldve declined to offer 
Mrs R a policy at all. As such, under the Act, it is entitled to void her policy, retain her 
premium and refuse her claim.
So, taking all the circumstances into account, I cant fairly say that Fairmead has treated 
Mrs R unreasonably. 
communication of the decision to void
I can see that Mrs R waited a substantial amount of time to receive written notification of the 
decision to void. I can see too that her claim was declined in April 2019 and that she was 
advised to contact her broker who informed her that her policy had been voided. Mrs R 
chased written confirmation from Fairmead but it wasnt until March 2020 that a letter was 
sent to advise her of its decision.
Whilst I agree this is not how we would usually expect a business to act, it is fair to say 
Mrs R had been made aware of the decision made at the time and she did have a broker 
acting for her. Whilst I appreciate the frustration not having a written letter wouldve caused, ultimately, Mrs Rs position wasnt altered by it and she is in the same position now as she 
wouldve been had the letter been sent sooner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman