DRN-2927569
The complaint
Mr P complains Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) charged him more interest than it 
should following a rebate.
What happened
Mr P took out insurance and Close Brothers financed this policy. Close Brothers applied 
interest to this agreement and allowed Mr P to make monthly payments.
Mr P asked Close Brothers for help because his work had reduced following lockdown. Mr P 
asked Close Brothers for a payment holiday, but it said it couldnt agree this. Close Brothers 
directed Mr P to his insurers instead.
Mr Ps insurers agreed to reduce the amount of the policy and sent Close Brothers the 
amount it had reduced the policy by. Close Brothers applied this refund to the finance 
agreement and reduced Mr Ps monthly payments.
Mr P was happy with this outcome, it reduced his monthly payments and he didnt continue 
with his complaint about the payment holiday.
Mr P paid off the agreement several months later, but felt Close Brothers should have 
reduced his interest when it received an overpayment.
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and felt Close Brothers had charged the interest 
in line with the agreement. Mr P disagreed, he felt since an overpayment had been made 
this should have reduced the total interest he paid.
Unable to resolve things, Mr P asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the initial agreement Mr P signed when he first financed his insurance 
premium with Close Brothers. This agreement was signed a little while ago, but since Mr P 
has continued to use Close Brothers theres not been a need for an updated agreement.
The agreements lay out the full cost of the agreement, the premium being financed and the 
interest Close Brothers charges. This figure is the total amount payable to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers agreement also says it may recalculate the payments Mr P has to make 
each month to ensure the agreement is repaid over the time period Mr P agreed to.
Mr Ps payments started in December 2019, and he made the required payments through to 
March 2020. Mr P was unable to make April 2020s payment as his income had reduced. 
Close Brothers applied a £30 charge because the payment wasnt made.
Close Brothers received the premium refund in April 2020 and used some of this to repay 
Marchs payment. The remainder was applied to the agreement but didnt pay it off in full.
Close Brothers then recalculated Mr Ps payments so the agreement continued through to 
September 2020, the date the finance was originally scheduled to end. Close Brothers also 
refunded the £30 charge it had previously applied.
When Close Brothers recalculated the payments it appears they were reduced in line with 
the total amount payable. This means Close Brothers reduced the payments as far as it 
could without charging Mr P further interest.
Close Brothers took the remainder of the premium owed, plus all the remaining interest 
owed under the original agreement, and divided this up into the further five payments due. 
This ensured the repayments were as low as they could be.
The total amount Mr P paid, added to the refund from his insurer, was the same as the 
original agreement. Mr P paid the same total amount of interest even though his insurer had 
paid money to Close Brothers part way through the agreement.
Mr P has said this doesnt seem fair. Mr P said if he overpaid on his mortgage hed save 
interest in the long term, and hes probably right. But this is likely reliant on Mr Ps 
repayments remaining the same and the agreement not including a total amount repayable.
Close Brothers agreement is different to a mortgage. Close Brothers told Mr P exactly what 
it would cost him to finance his insurance, inclusive of interest. And Close Brothers 
agreement says if overpayments are made itll reduce the monthly payments.
By reducing the monthly payments, Mr Ps outstanding loan balance reduces more slowly. 
And since interest is charged daily on the outstanding amount the total amount of interest 
payable is going to be the same.
Mr P didnt make a payment again until May 2020. Mr P then made three further payments, 
in July, October and November 2020 to pay off the agreement.
Mr P didnt make his payments in line with the reduced terms, he made larger payments 
than he needed to, and these were later than he should have paid them. Mr Ps agreement 
should have ended in September 2020 but wasnt fully paid until November 2020.
Close Brothers didnt apply any further interest even though the agreement took longer to 
repay than previously agreed. Close Brothers also refunded any £30 charges it has applied 
for Mr P missing payments on the reduced payment plan.
Close Brothers has said Mr P would have received a rebate of interest if hed paid the 
agreement off early. And this is in line with Mr Ps mortgage analogy. Had the repayments 
remained the same following the refund from Mr Ps insurer its likely Mr P would have repaid 
the agreement before September 2020 and received an interest rebate.
Ive thought about whether Close Brothers should have given Mr P the option to keep his 
repayments at the higher amount. But Mr Ps original complaint was he was struggling to 
make payments to the agreement because his income had reduced.
I think Close Brothers made the right decision to reduce Mr Ps repayments, even though 
this meant he paid more interest than if the repayments had remained the same. Mr P had 
asked for help with his finances and reducing a monthly repayment should help.I understand Mr Ps concerns about the interest charged, but I dont think Close Brothers 
made a mistake when applying the refund to Mr Ps finance agreement and then reducing 
his payments as much as it could. And because of this, I dont think Close Brothers needs to 
do anything else to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman