DRN-2677454
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) has caused her financial 
losses due to the way it has handled matters after she used a loan from the company to pay 
for goods and services which were not provided.
 
What happened
Mrs S bought a package of beauty treatments and products from a company I will call N in 
May 2018. The package appears to have cost £2,000, of which £500 was paid in cash and 
the remaining £1,500 was funded by a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni which was 
arranged by and paid directly to N.
Under the loan agreement Mrs S was expected to pay 24 monthly payments of £62.50. She 
says she received one treatment from N and felt this was not right for her, but when she 
raised her concerns they were unhelpful and made it difficult for her to cancel. In the end, 
around the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019, N went into administration and subsequently 
into liquidation.
Mrs S then stopped making her repayments to Omni. They sent her text messages and 
emails throughout February and March 2019 trying to get hold of her to discuss this. In April 
2019 they spoke to Mrs S who complained that she had only received one treatment and 
that she shouldnt have to pay if she hadnt received what she had paid for.
Omni emailed Mrs S on 11 April 2019 to confirm they were aware N had ceased trading and 
they had logged a complaint for her. They said she still needed to make her repayments 
while the complaint was being looked into, to prevent damage to her credit file.
On 9 May 2019 Omni notified Mrs S it was going to register her account as defaulted on her 
credit file. It passed the account to a debt collection agency on 20 June 2019 while the 
complaint was ongoing.
Mrs S didnt receive a response to her complaint until 2 July 2019. In this Omni noted Mrs S 
had agreed to receive 12 treatments at a total cost of £2,000, and had received only one, so 
she should only pay £166.66 in total (£2,000 divided by 12). It said it would refund her 
£833.33, this being the total of payments she had made (including the deposit) minus 
£166.66. It also said it would remove negative information from her credit file and pay her 
£100 compensation for taking a long time to respond to her complaint. I understand Omni 
has already taken these actions.
Mrs S was unhappy with Omnis response and referred her complaint to this service. She 
said the negative information Omni had recorded on her credit file had already caused her to 
have a mortgage application declined and she had lost a significant amount of money as a 
result.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that although Mrs Ss 
mortgage broker had cited negative information on the credit file as one of the reasons for 
her mortgage application being declined, it was not the only reason. Our investigator also 
thought Omni hadnt been wrong to record negative information at the time, because Mrs S 
had stopped making her repayments. Because of these things, our investigator didnt think 
Omni needed to do anything else to put things right.
Mrs S disagreed. She said Omni hadnt removed the negative information from her credit file 
and she now had losses of £500,000 as a result, because she had had several property 
deals fall through. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining issue for me to decide in this case is whether Omnis offer to Mrs S was a fair 
one, and whether it removed the negative information from her credit file as it said it would. 
As far as I can see, Mrs S doesnt dispute the refund provided by Omni in relation to the 
treatments with N, but her view is that the negative information Omni added to her credit file 
has caused her significant financial losses which have not been covered, and Omni has 
failed to remove the negative information despite promising to do so.
Because the issues in dispute are quite narrow, I havent subjected the rest of Mrs Ss 
complaint to detailed analysis. I will say only that, taking into account its liabilities under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, it appears fair to me that Omni ultimately held 
Mrs S responsible for paying only for the one treatment she received from N, refunding 
anything else she paid on top of that. Paying £100 compensation for the delays in dealing 
with the matter also seems broadly fair considering the large number of claims Omni was 
dealing with as a result of Ns insolvency. I turn now to the matter of the information recorded 
on Mrs Ss credit file.
Was Omni entitled to record negative information on Mrs Ss credit file?
There is no dispute that Omni recorded negative information on Mrs Ss credit file after she 
stopped making her payments. Specifically, Omni recorded late/missed payments and a 
default. As our investigator noted, when Mrs S signed up for the loan agreement she agreed 
to make her monthly repayments on time. This was written into her agreement. Her 
agreement also said that Omni may:
give details of your account and how you manage it to credit reference agencies. If you 
borrow and do not repay in full and on time, we may tell credit reference agencies who will 
record the outstanding debt
And
Missing payments may make obtaining credit more difficult for you in the future as we may 
report any non-payment to credit reference agencies.
There was nothing in the loan agreement which said that Mrs S didnt have to make her 
repayments on time if she had an ongoing dispute about the goods or services that were 
meant to have been provided, or that any failure to make payment in these circumstances 
wouldnt be reported to the credit reference agencies.
There is also relevant industry guidance from the Steering Committee on Reciprocity 
(SCOR), dealing specifically with the reporting of late payments and defaults with the credit 
reference agencies. This guidance says that if payments are not made as expected on a 
credit agreement, information to reflect this will be recorded on a persons credit file. It also says that a default can normally be recorded when payments are between three and six 
months behind. Omnis actions were, in my view, consistent with this guidance.
Finally, Omni appears to have told Mrs S on telephone calls of 11 April 2020 and 1 May 
2020, and in an email of 11 April 2020, that while her complaint was ongoing she was 
expected to make her monthly repayments and not to do so would have an impact on her 
credit file. So it seems to me Mrs S had fair warning, both in the agreement itself and in 
subsequent communications with Omni, that not paying would damage her credit rating. 
Overall I dont find that it was unfair or unreasonable of Omni to record the negative 
information, nor do I find it failed to make Mrs S aware that it was going to do so.
Did the negative information cause Mrs S a financial loss?
Even if Im wrong about the above, and Omni should not have recorded negative information 
on Mrs Ss credit file, it wouldnt be fair to compensate Mrs S if she has not actually suffered 
a loss as a result. 
Mrs S has provided a letter from her mortgage broker relating to a mortgage application she 
made in June 2019 at about the time Omni recorded a default on the account. This shows 
that one of the reasons why her application was turned down was Unsatisfactory Adverse 
Bureau. In other words, because of negative credit file information. But it appears the 
application was also turned down due to the information on the mortgage application being 
inconsistent with the information on the Agreement in Principle. So I cant fairly conclude that 
the negative information recorded by Omni caused the failure of Mrs Ss mortgage 
application and any losses which flowed from that. It appears the application would have 
been declined in any event.
Mrs S says Omni failed to remove the negative information after promising to do so, and this 
caused subsequent mortgage applications to decline. Omnis internal notes indicate they 
asked the credit reference agencies to remove the negative information on 3 July 2020, 
though of course this doesnt necessarily mean that this was done successfully.
Ive seen a recent copy of Mrs Ss credit file, and I note this doesnt show any negative 
information from Omni. Her loan account shows as settled as of 3 July 2020. The only 
negative information I can see relates to a missed payment on a credit card in June 2019. I 
can also see from Mrs Ss credit file that she successfully obtained a mortgage in September 
2019, three months after her failed application. Had Omni not removed the default and 
record of late payments I would not have expected this application to have been successful. 
So on balance, I think Omni removed the negative information from Mrs Ss credit file when 
they said they did.
Its not clear to me why any recent applications Mrs S has been making for mortgages or 
other credit may have been unsuccessful. However, I have not seen evidence that these, or 
the declined mortgage application in June 2019, were due solely to anything recorded by 
Omni on her credit file. It follows that I cant ask Omni to provide Mrs S with further redress.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 Will Culley
Ombudsman