DRN-3555424
The complaint
Mr R complains that Motors Insurance Company Limited (MIC) made an error with the 
information it gave him when he made a claim on his extended motor warranty insurance. Mr 
R is also unhappy that MIC wont refund any unused premium after he traded in the vehicle 
and cancelled the policy mid-term. 
What happened
Mr R purchased an extended motor warranty policy alongside a vehicle he bought in June 
2021. In July 2021, Mr R made a claim. There was conflicting information about where the 
vehicle could be repaired and who was to pay for the repairs, but the claim was eventually 
paid by MIC. Mr R complained about the misinformation hed received about the claims 
process and MIC offered him £25 in compensation for any errors it had made.
In August 2021, Mr R traded in the vehicle tried to cancel the direct debit for the extended 
motor warranty policy.  But MIC said because a claim had been paid on the policy, the full 
premium was due. 
Mr R said this wasnt fair and said this wasnt made clear to him. He says he would never 
have claimed if hed known and he brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
reviewed the complaint and said MIC hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Lets deal with the claim first. Mr R says he called MIC and its agents didnt know the claim 
process. He says he was told he had to get his vehicle repaired at a main dealer, and this 
was not correct. He says this caused unnecessary delays and he spent hours on the phone 
trying to sort this out. He says he was without a vehicle longer than expected and this was 
down to MICs untrained agents. He says he was chasing and fact checking during the 
whole process, which left him with no confidence he would be protected by the warranty.
MIC acknowledges that Mr R was given incorrect information on 7 July 2021 when he first 
claimed. However, it also says that the correct information was clarified a day later on 8 July 
2021 and repair costs were authorised on 13 July 2021.
As a service we'll consider whether compensation is appropriate when an error is made. 
We're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration 
and minor annoyance is expected. For us to make an award we'd need to see that the 
impact of a business's mistake was more than someone would expect to experience as part 
of everyday life. If the impact has been more than just minimal such as a single mistake, 
requiring a reasonable effort or a few weeks to sort out, then an award might be fair.
Looking at this I can see Mr R has suffered a frustration, and he says he has lost confidence 
in the product. MIC did make an error. But it rectified it and compensated Mr R £25 for the 
error. The compensation it awarded is definitely on the lower end of the scale. But even 
though I wouldve liked to see MIC award a little more, the compensation awarded is still 
within the band I would consider appropriate for a single mistake that was ultimately resolved 
quite quickly. Because of this, I wont be asking MIC to pay any more compensation. If this 
amount hasnt been paid, MIC need to do so now. 
So, lets move on to the policy cancellation. Mr R says he no longer has the vehicle, and as 
such he shouldnt have to pay for the remainder of the policy.
The policy says a number of things about cancelling, what happens when you make a claim 
and transferring the policy if required. The policy allows consumers to cancel within 30 days 
to receive a refund of any premium they are entitled to. If a consumer cancels outside of the 
30 days, they will receive a pro-rata refund based on the number of whole months remaining 
and a cancellation fee.
However, if a claim is made, there is no refund entitlement. The policy says There will be no 
refund entitlement under the following circumstances:
 If You have made a claim on the Warranty or the MOT policy.
There is an alternative option available, and thats a transfer. The policy says a warranty 
transfer request service is available for private sales only, and there is no charge for this 
service.
Mr R made a claim on this policy. So, no refund is due if the policy is cancelled mid-term as 
per the policy terms. Mr R says this isnt fair, and this wasnt highlighted to him at sale. He 
says he would never have made the claim if hed known this.
I think its more likely than not Mr R needed to claim so thats what he did. At that point he 
wasnt thinking about cancelling, he just wanted his claim paid. But notwithstanding this, 
even if cancelling was on his mind, the policy terms are set out clearly in the terms and 
conditions. And in essence MIC had made Mr R aware of the term by virtue of supplying him 
with a copy of the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr R says the agent who he spoke too shouldve highlighted this to him when he was 
claiming. But we wouldnt expect agents to go through each individual term in the policy 
each time theres a claim. Wed only ask a warranty provider to set the terms out clearly in 
the policy document, and after that its Mr Rs responsibility to read them. As such, I think 
MIC has done enough. It supplied Mr R with a copy of the policy terms, and I dont think Mr 
R wouldve done anything differently at the time even if the term was highlighted to him. At 
the time Mr R just wanted his claim paid.
Mr R says continuing to have to pay for the policy when the vehicle is no longer belonging to 
him isnt fair. But when Mr R took this policy, there were two parties to the agreement. One 
party, MIC, offered to pay a valid claim or claims for a set premium. This party set out the 
conditions which each party was subject to. By agreeing to pay the premium and by signing 
the agreement Mr R agreed to these terms. And MIC fulfilled its side of the agreement. 
When a valid claim was made it paid that claim. I appreciate the insured vehicle is now traded in, so the remaining cover provided by the 
policy is now essentially useless. But that was Mr Rs choice. The policy set out the terms 
and they are not unfair. Mr R has already gained from using this policy by making a claim. 
And as such the full premium is now due. This is standard in the insurance industry and I 
believe is fair and reasonable. I note that MIC do offer the option to transfer the policy. But 
as Mr R didnt sell the vehicle privately, this option isnt valid for him. 
And so, taking everything into account Im satisfied MIC did enough to address Mr Rs issues 
around the time of the claim. If the compensation amount awarded hasnt been paid, MIC 
need to do so now. And given what it says in the policy terms and conditions about 
cancelling mid-term, its reasonable for MIC to look for the remaining premium for the 
reasons Ive set out above. I know Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But Im 
satisfied MIC has dealt with everything appropriately and I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman