DRN-3422905
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, asked us to consider a complaint about Visa, Mastercard 
and Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard). Briefly, it said that around £80,000 of 
chargebacks had been wrongly applied to Cs account.
Mr S, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
Barclays told us:
In 2012, it agreed to provide merchant acquiring services for C, and C agreed to 
abide by the rules of the various card schemes.
Between March 2020 and May 2021, Barclays received numerous chargebacks 
against C. The card issuers raised the chargebacks under the card scheme rules as 
service not received. The cardholders said they had not received refunds from C for 
services they were unable to use due to lockdown restrictions.
It notified Mr S, and requested signed proof or documentation showing that Cs 
customers had accepted the service and Cs terms and conditions. It did not receive 
the information it asked for, and so it could not defend the chargebacks.
It contacted Mr S in July 2020 and re-iterated the importance of C providing the 
evidence it had requested in order to defend the chargebacks, but that evidence was 
still not forthcoming.
It acknowledges that Mr S has since said Cs website requires Cs customers to tick a 
box on Cs website before proceeding with any purchase. However, the card 
schemes would not accept that as evidence that Cs customers had read Cs terms. 
Mr S subsequently disputed the chargebacks, and said C would not settle the 
outstanding arrears on its account with Barclays. Mr S cancelled Cs direct debit 
instruction in March 2020, and so Barclays has not been able to collect the full 
monthly charges. Barclays proposed a repayment plan to allow C to settle the arrears 
over time, but after Mr S referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service it 
put the arrears issues on hold pending the outcome of this complaint.
Overall, Barclays is satisfied that it has acted fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions. It is not prepared to cover any of Cs financial losses.
Mr S told us:
C has had card accounts for over 30 years. He knew that C was accountable for 
financial failures, but it should not be held accountable for illegal or quasi legal 
chargebacks.
Cs own customers have claimed reimbursement which they are not entitled to under 
UK law, and have nevertheless been paid. He does not believe that any of the 
chargebacks would hold up in a UK court. 
Visa and Mastercard appear to be lawless under their rules  which they ignore 
anyway. He considers that the system is corrupt, with even simple [rules], such as a 
120 day limit for claims,  at times being ignored.
Over the years, C has had compliance checks and even visits, but it has not been 
given sufficient guidance about chargebacks.
Barclays decision to communicate by post only was a mistake  particularly as 
Barclays could not itself receive correspondence by post at the time. Had Barclays 
used email or fax as well, then the cases involving claims being lost or not received 
would have been easily avoided.
Barclays (and others) have misled Cs customers about who ultimately paid for 
chargebacks. C surveyed its own clients and found that a large number of them 
believed that the chargeback claim would be paid for by the card company and not 
by C.
The chargebacks have also undermined travel contracts and insurance cover. The 
public are being incentivised to ignore their legal obligations  why would they pay an 
excess under an insurance policy when they can recover all of their money using a 
chargeback? The losses to companies like C are being exacerbated by Barclays 
(and others) advertising, which tells consumers about the benefits of paying by card 
with your money guaranteed. Overall, the chargeback system is simply not fit for 
purpose.
To resolve the complaint, he would like there to be an investigation into the conduct 
of Visa and Mastercard, as well as that of the card issuers (Barclays and others). 
He has also written to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) seeking their help.
One of our investigators said:
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to consider complaints about Visa 
or Mastercard, and we cannot consider whether insurers (or others) have advertised 
inappropriately. We can only consider whether Barclays has treated C fairly.
He thought Barclays had asked for the evidence it needed to defend the 
chargebacks, but C didnt provide that evidence. He also thought it was reasonable 
for Barclays to have sent notifications by post, despite the disruptions caused by the 
pandemic.
He has not seen any evidence to suggest that chargebacks had been paid outside of 
the timescales in the scheme rules. The card scheme rules do say that some 
disputes must be processed within 120 days of the transaction processing date, that 
is not true of all disputes. Where the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise 
or services purchased at a later date, the dispute can be processed within 120 days 
of the date the cardholder expected to receive the goods or services (subject to an 
overall 540 day limit).Overall, he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr S did not accept our investigators opinion, so the matter was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr S, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said.
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme rules  they are not decided on the 
merits of any dispute between the cardholder and the merchant. If a cardholder submits a 
successful chargeback request, that does not necessarily say anything about whether the 
merchant would succeed if were to pursue its customer in court.
Its clear that Mr S believes very strongly that the card payment systems available in the UK 
do not work well for merchants like C. But our investigator was right to say that the majority 
of the issues Mr S has raised are matters that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no 
power to consider. We cannot investigate the actions of Visa or Mastercard, and we cannot 
investigate whether the card scheme rules are fair.
What we can do is look at whether Barclays has treated C fairly. Overall, I am satisfied that it 
has.
I acknowledge that it would have been helpful to C if Barclays had contacted it by email or 
fax in addition to using the post, but I dont think Barclays was required to do that. Similarly, 
Barclays was not required to offer C any additional guidance as to how the card schemes 
handle chargeback requests.
I accept that many of Cs customers were confused about whether chargeback requests 
were funded by C, by Barclays, or by one of the card schemes. But that confusion makes no 
difference to the rules of the schemes. Ultimately, if a merchant does not provide a defence 
to a chargeback request in time  or if it provides a defence that Barclays knows the card 
scheme will not accept  then Barclays cannot reasonably defend the chargeback. I consider 
that that is what has happened here, and so I am not persuaded that Barclays has done 
anything wrong.
If Mr S believes that C is still owed money by its own customers, then it is of course open to 
him to consider taking legal advice about how C might recover that money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman