DRN-2490617
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc denied him access to his online banking facility, and 
discriminated against him on the basis of his disability.
What happened
Mr G has mental health issues, which he says make it difficult to him to cope with digital 
technology. In 2019 he had an account with Santander and two mobile phones. In July 2019 
Santander strengthened its security procedures for online banking, which required Mr G to 
use a one-time passcode (OTP) to continue to access his account online. Mr G says that at 
the time he did not have access to the mobile phone to which the OTP was sent. He asked 
Santander to send it to his other phone, which he had with him, but Santander said that only 
one phone could be registered to receive OTPs on an account, for security reasons.
In a phone call to Santander, Mr G failed to pass security because he could not remember 
his password. Santander sent him a new temporary password, but he struggled to use it on 
the banks website, and in August he phoned Santander again to ask for help, and also to 
complain. He said he had not received a five-digit security code that he said should have 
been sent at the same time as the password. He also complained that he should be able to 
have OTPs sent to more than one phone, and that Santander had further inconvenienced 
him by closing some of its branches. The calls (there were two) ended with Mr G saying he 
would complain to our Service, which he did.
Mr G told us that Santanders refusal to send an OTP to his other phone was discriminatory. 
He asked to be compensated for his time at the rate of one thousand pounds an hour.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that it was not Santanders fault that 
Mr G had not used online banking since sending him the temporary password. She said 
Santander had re-sent it to him in September. She thought that only sending OTPs to one 
phone was a reasonable precaution. She didnt think it was within her remit to comment 
about Santanders branch closures. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is reasonable of Santander to have a policy of only sending OTPs to one phone per 
account. To allow them to be sent to additional phones might increase the risk of them being 
intercepted by a third party. The OTPs were sent to a phone which Mr G had registered to 
his account, and Santander had no reason to know that he did not have access to that 
phone at the relevant time.
Meanwhile, it was still open to Mr G to use telephone banking if he wanted to check his 
account balance. If he needed to make a payment to a third party, he could have made a 
card payment over the phone. So I dont agree that his inability to use online banking 
prevented him from using his account. The inconvenience to him could have been reduced if 
he had not waited for over a month before contacting Santander about his difficulty in using 
the new password. So I dont think I can fairly hold Santander responsible for that.
Although our Service can consider complaints about the manner in which a bank closes a 
branch, such as whether adequate notice was given to its customers, we cant interfere with 
the actual decision to close the branch, as that is a commercial decision which banks are 
entitled to make. We wouldnt order a bank to re-open the branch. So I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint about that matter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman