DRN-3086940
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs D was on holiday in a country Ill refer to as S. She was due to return to 
the UK on 22 March 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared 
Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. 
As a result of the impact of Covid-19 Mrs D says that she was stuck abroad due to her return 
flight being cancelled. She says that S closed the airport and stopped commercial flights into 
the country. So, she had to wait until a repatriation flight to get home. She claimed on her 
policy for the cost of that repatriation flight. 
URV declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances werent covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. Unhappy, Mrs D complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She thought that URV had fairly declined the 
claim as there was no cover under the policy for the circumstances which led Mrs D to claim. 
Mrs D didnt agree and highlighted that other people who were on the same trip had their 
claims covered by their insurers. And they also pointed out that whilst the policy specified the 
risks that were covered the policy also didnt say that this situation wasnt covered. So, they 
asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy covers: 
£20 trip disruption allowance per 12 hours up to a maximum of £160 if the departure 
of the international flight, international train or sailing is delayed for more than 12 
hours from its scheduled departure time from the international departure point 
(provided the policyholder is at their international departure point, the delay is more 
than 12 hours and the delay is not due to the diversion of aircraft after it has 
departed)
Up to £1,250 for the policyholders proportion of prepaid transport charges if after 24 
hours of delay at the international departure point of their outbound journey from the 
United Kingdom they abandon the trip
Up to £500 for alternative transport to get the policyholder to their home country if on 
their return journey to the United Kingdom they are unable to reach their international 
departure point and check-in on time leading to the policyholder missing their 
departure 
Scheduled airline failure which is defined as the insolvency or financial failure of the 
scheduled airline on which the policyholder is booked to travel. 
There is also a general exclusion for delay, confiscation, requisition, damage, destruction or 
any prohibitive regulations by customs or other government officials or authorities of any 
country. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to reject the claim? 
I have a lot of empathy for Mrs Ds position and Im sorry to hear that she had to stay in S for 
a prolonged period of time. Im sure that this was a worrying time and I can appreciate that it 
was a very difficult and uncertain situation. 
Whilst I have a lot of empathy for the circumstances Mrs D found herself in, Im not 
upholding this complaint because I think it was reasonable for URV to reject Mrs Ds claim. I 
say that because: 
I dont think Mrs Ds claim is covered under the travel disruption section of the policy. 
Mrs Ds flight wasnt delayed when she was at her international departure point and it 
wasnt delayed for more than 12 hours. It was cancelled due to the impact of Covid-
19 and the closure of the airport. 
The flight which was cancelled wasnt Mrs Ds outbound flight, it was her return flight. 
So, there is no cover under the policy for abandonment of the trip, as it had already 
started. 
The airline did not financially fail and it wasnt insolvent. So, there is no cover under 
the scheduled airline failure section of the policy. 
There is no cover for enforced stay abroad in these circumstances under the policy 
terms and conditions. 
I also think that there is also another relevant exclusion which applies to the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds claim. Mrs D told us that the airport of S was closed and 
that commercial flights were not permitted. So, its also most likely that the prohibitive 
regulations exclusion which Ive outlined above would also apply to the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds claim.
Ive taken into account what Mrs D has said about the policy terms and conditions 
and that it didnt state that enforced stay abroad wasnt covered. The policy, like 
many travel insurance policies, specifies the risks that it is prepared to cover. Mrs Ds 
circumstances dont fall within those specified risks. It was also up to Mrs D to decide 
if the level of cover was right for her based on her demands and needs. So, I cant 
fairly conclude that there are any reasonable grounds to direct URV to cover the 
claim in the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate that other members of Mrs Ds party were able to recover their losses 
from their travel insurers. But the outcome of any claim will depend on the terms and 
conditions of the policy as the level of cover offered varies between insurers. So, it 
doesnt automatically follow that its unreasonable for URV to decline the claim. And, 
my role is to consider the facts of this case. Having done so I think it was reasonable 
for URV to reject the claim. Its unclear whether Mrs D has approached her airline in relation to reimbursement of 
her original return flight which was cancelled and her associated additional costs. If 
she hasnt done so already, Mrs D may wish to contact her airline and/or the 
regulator of the airline industry as she may have the benefit of protection under the 
EU 261 regulations relating to cancelled flights. I cant say that Mrs D will be able to 
recover her losses but it offers a further avenue for her should she wish to pursue the 
matter further.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman