DRN-3942468
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lendable Ltd irresponsibly agreed a loan for him.
What happened
Lendable agreed a loan of £10,660 for Mr S in July 2019. The total amount owed was
£16,283 to be repaid at £274 a month over 59 months and a final payment of £120 (all
figures rounded). I understand that Mr S made nine payments before setting up the first of
several repayment plans with Lendable and that there is an outstanding balance.
Mr S said that the loan was unaffordable. He said that he had taken out another loan just
before which Lendable didnt take into account when it processed his application. Mr S said
that he has been greatly affected by this as it has negatively impacted his credit score and
caused him to fall behind on other credit commitments.
Lendable didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that all credit checks were carried out as
normal during the application process and that Mr S fulfilled the necessary criteria to
proceed with the loan at the time. Lendable said it verified Mr Ss income using an online tool
and didnt find anything of concern in the credit file information it considered.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and
recommended that it be upheld. They found that Lendable should have looked into Mr Ss
circumstances further before lending to him, and that it would have learnt that further credit
was likely to be unaffordable for him.
Lendable didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide. The complaint came to me and I sent out a provisional decision on 
27 January 2023 explaining why I didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I allowed 
some time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information for 
me to consider. Both parties have acknowledged my provisional decision but havent 
provided anything further for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again and having no new information to consider I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again for not 
upholding Mr Ss complaint in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, when deciding this matter Ive had regard to the 
regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit 
handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Lendable, need to abide by. Lendable will be 
aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont 
refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Lendable needed to check that Mr S could afford to
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and to Mr Ss circumstances. Once the agreement was in place Lendable needed
to treat Mr S with forbearance and due consideration if he had problems meeting his
repayments.
Mr S told Lendable on application that he was in full time employment with a monthly income
of £1,460. Lendable used a credit reference agency tool which checked the amount being
deposited into Mr Ss bank account over several months for consistency. Lendable explained
that if a consistent level of income was received each month, then the check returned an
average monthly income amount, in this case the check returned a figure of £1,287 a month.
Lendable said it didnt ask Mr S for any supporting documentation such as bank statements
or payslips because it said the figure had been consistent over several months.
Lendable also said that Mr Ss credit file showed that he was managing his active accounts
well. It said that he held three current accounts and three credit cards, all of which had
balances within their respective credit limits. Lendable estimated that with this new loan Mr S
would be spending 38% of his income each month on repaying credit, leaving him with 62%
of his income for living and non-discretionary expenses. Lendable said that with the
information available it believed the loan to be affordable for Mr S, and that the checks it
carried out were proportionate for the size of the loan and the term requested.
Lendable provided the credit file information it relied on and Ive reviewed this. It showed that
Mr Ss credit card balances came to £7,140 out of a total limit of £8,150. Hed been paying
more than the minimum on two of these, hadnt taken out any cash advances and didnt
have any adverse information recorded. I dont think there was anything of concern in the
credit file information that ought to have prompted Lendable to carry out further checks.
However, as Lendable will know, the checks it was required to carry out before lending need
to be proportionate to the loan specifics relative to the circumstances of the borrower. More
detailed checks might be proportionate where their financial situation is such that the credit
may be expected to have a more significant impact. I think Mr S spending almost 40% of his
income on repaying debt each month for five years was a considerable commitment, and it
would have been proportionate in this case to look further into his circumstances before
lending to him. I appreciate Lendable sense-checked Mr Ss income but I cant see that it
verified what he was earning or investigated what his expenses were.
Mr S told us his living costs included £150 for his board and £35 for his mobile phone bill
plus varying amounts on other costs such as food and clothing. Mr S provided his bank
statements from the time which confirm his level of financial commitment. Mr S also told us
that hed taken out another loan just prior to this one from Lendable with repayments of
£148. I can see from the bank statements that this was a loan of £10,000 taken out about six
weeks before which Mr S used to clear his credit card debts. This potentially reduced Mr Ss
monthly debt repayments to about a third of his income altogether.
While I think Lendable should have looked into Mr Ss means in more detail before lending to
him, I dont think further checks would have led it to decline the loan. While Mr S would still 
be spending a sizeable amount of his income on repaying debt, it seems he would be able to
afford this given his living costs and existing financial commitments. And I havent seen any
indications of financial difficulty in the available information. So I cant find in this case that
Lendable was irresponsible to lend to Mr S.
Mr S told us that his income wasnt regular around that time because hed taken sick leavefrom work. I can see from the bank statements that in June and July 2019 his salary was 
greatly reduced. However, it was consistent outside of these months (for the previous five 
months and for two months afterwards). So I cant say that this knowledge would have led to 
a decline either, given it seemed to be a temporary reduction covering months when no 
payments were owed on the loan.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr S but I am not upholding his complaint. I 
would remind Lendable of its obligation to treat him fairly, with forbearance and due 
consideration regarding the outstanding balance on his account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Lendable
Ltd and so dont require it to pay him compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman