DRN-4244914
The complaint
Mr R complains about the decision UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) made 
to decline his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R was entitled to cover under a UKI legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. He made a 
claim for cover to pursue a third party for breach of contract in relation to the sale of a 
property he owned. UKI declined the claim on grounds that it wasnt covered under the 
policy since the breach of contract claim didnt relate to the sale of his home. UKI originally 
relied on an exclusion as well but later accepted it didnt apply.
Mr R complained. UKI didnt uphold his complaint but offered to pay £150 for failing to 
register his complaint and responding to it initially. Mr R didnt accept that outcome and 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
He said, in summary:
the property hed sold should be treated as his main home under the LEI policy;
it had been the only property hed owned and although it had been rented out 
previously, it had been vacant for the previous six months and hed been paying the 
bills; 
although he lived in the property mentioned in the policy schedule with his partner, he 
had no insurable interest in it - but he was entitled to the LEI cover;
UKI had updated the policy terms and conditions at renewal and hadnt pointed out 
relevant changes when they did; 
the policy was ambiguous and UKI unfairly interpreted it in their favour; and
the length and complexity of the policy wording meant it wouldnt be fair to expect 
him to have understood the cover it provided.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had acted unfairly in handling the claim or that they had 
declined it unreasonably. He said Mr Rs dispute with the third party didnt relate to the home 
as defined in the policy. And he didnt think the policy was ambiguous or unclear. Since Mr R 
didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr R had with the third party. And I note his strength of 
feeling about this complaint. But having considered everything carefully, for reasons that are 
broadly the same as our investigators, I dont think UKI have acted unreasonably or treated 
him unfairly. Ill explain why.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles we expect insurers to take account 
of the information needs of their clients and communicate with them in a way that is clear, 
fair and not misleading. Under the FCA rules relating to insurance we expect them to handle 
claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ive considered what 
happened bearing that in mind. The starting point is the LEI policy.
Subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions set out in the policy, Mr R had cover of up to 
a certain limit to pursue claims in relation to the events the policy covered. The relevant 
event here was Contract disputes, which said:
We will pay costs for breach of contract claims for:

Buying or selling your home
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:

Contracts connected with a profession, business, trade or venture for gain
Home was defined as The main residence occupied by you, at the address shown in 
your schedule
Although UKI initially relied on the exclusion Ive set out, they agreed later it didnt apply. So, 
I wont consider it further.
Mr Rs said, broadly, the FCA expects a policy to be worded in a way that an average 
customer can understand. Hes told us he has a learning difficulty. Hes said he was told 
initially that his claim would be covered, but UKI changed their minds. Hes suggested the 
policy changed from its original wording and UKI failed to communicate those changes.
And hes made several points about why the property he sold should be covered, as Ive 
mentioned already. Ive considered all the points Mr Rs made in reaching my decision.
I can understand it was disappointing when UKI told him there was no cover after initially 
saying there was. But it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to cover a claim based on a mistake they 
made in checking policy cover when he made the claim. Whats important is the cover the 
policy provided and whether they reasonably declined the claim based on that.
UKI have explained a policy booklet setting out the terms and conditions would have been 
issued when the policy was first taken out; any changes to the policy wording would have 
been communicated at renewal; and the wording theyve provided would have reflected any 
changes and applied at the time Mr R made his claim. I think its reasonable to rely on the 
policy wording UKI have sent given the explanation and information theyve provided. 
Importantly, an updated policy schedule was sent each year setting out details of the home 
that fell within the policy definition.
The policy extracts Mr R sent in relation to another complaint  though incomplete  arent 
substantively different. Based on what hes provided, I dont think the outcome would have 
been affected even if I thought it was right to consider the version of the policy Mr R is 
referring to instead.  
Im not aware Mr R made UKI aware of any adjustments he might need to help him 
understand the policy more easily, so it wouldnt be fair to expect them to have done so. 
Although the policy is lengthy, the key issue is whether it was clear, fair and not misleading. 
The policy wording here was clear and unambiguous. Cover was only provided to pursue a 
breach of contract claim in relation to the sale of the home as defined in the policy. And it 
was clear that the home was the property set out in the policy schedule where Mr R lived with his partner. 
The fact that Mr R didnt own the property in the schedule, that he had only owned the 
property he sold and that the property he sold was no longer being rented out/he was paying 
the bills makes no difference. His own property didnt meet the policy definition of home, so 
the claim he wished to pursue in relation to it wasnt covered. 
In all the circumstances UKI fairly declined the claim. And, whilst I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint.
UKI accepted they hadnt set up Mr Rs complaint when they should have done. Our 
investigator explained we couldnt consider a complaint about that. But I understand UKI has 
arranged to make the payment they proposed to compensate Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman