DRN-1747266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining their claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a legal expenses insurance policy with UKI taken out through a broker. 
They also owned a business and made claims under the policy in order to have legal 
assistance. Mr and Mrs S said that in February 2020, UKI realised that the terms and 
conditions of the policy didnt cover contract disputes and declined to continue to fund the 
claims.
Mr and Mrs S complained to UKI. It said that two claims were made, one in August 2019 
relating to a former customer and one in December 2019 against the first law firm instructed 
by Mr and Mrs S. UKI agreed that it had taken too long to confirm that the December claim 
would be declined as it was for a contract dispute and wasnt covered by the terms and 
conditions of the policy. But it said that the August claim was initially declined on incorrect 
grounds, and cover put in place in October 2019 (backdated to August due to the poor 
customer journey). 
UKI went on to say the relationship with Mr and Mrs S solicitors broke down in December 
and it agreed to pay another law firm to review the matter. It accepted that it didnt read the 
review for some weeks and it wasnt until February 2020 that UKI realised the additional 
cover for debt recovery and contract disputes hadnt been purchases by Mr and Mrs S; this 
meant the claim wasnt covered by the policy. It said that it had reserved the right to rectify 
claims covered in error, but would pay reasonable legal costs it had agreed to pay to date 
and was reviewing the invoices from the solicitors. UKI pointed out that Mr and Mrs S had 
benefitted from legal cover to which they werent entitled (which was likely to cost it 
thousands of pounds) and offered £200 for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. It 
also said that while Mr and Mrs S had raised complaints about the actions of the first law 
firm, who had been instructed before UKI was contacted, it wasnt responsible for their 
actions.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators view was that UKI didnt need to do more. 
She said that the August claim had been accepted in error and UKI was able to withdraw as 
the terms and conditions of the policy didnt cover it. She said UKIs decision to pay the 
reasonable agreed legal costs from August 2019 to February 2020 was fair and reasonable, 
and meant that Mr and Mrs S had benefitted from legal cover to which they werent entitled. 
The investigator commented that UKI wasnt responsible for the conduct of solicitors and 
£200 compensation was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said as theyd spent time dealing with the claims, theyd lost 
out on the opportunity to earn income. The investigator pointed out that Mr and Mrs S had 
started the litigation before approaching UKI and it was to be expected that dealing with 
claims was an inevitable inconvenience; it wasnt UKIs fault that the legal action arose. 
Mr and Mrs S said that they understood the solicitors involved had been paid and wanted 
money from UKI towards their costs. UKI said that it was in the process of reviewing the 
costs paid by Mr and Mrs S; Mr and Mrs S confirmed they had received payment of 
£6,402.00 from UKI towards their legal costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to UKI, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. I note that its possible to pay for 
additional options, but they werent taken out in Mr and Mrs S case. Insurers are able to 
decide exactly what risks theyre willing to cover under a policy, but they must be clearly set 
out within the terms and conditions of the policy; the premium relates to the risks covered.
The policy in Mr and Mrs S case covers employment disputes, legal defence in 
circumstances not relevant to this complaint, property protection, claims relating to bodily 
injury, and tax issues. The claims they wanted to be covered by the policy arent covered as 
the August claim is about a debt and defence of a variety of legal actions not covered, and 
the December claim is in relation to professional negligence which again isnt covered. I 
cant say that its unfair or unreasonable for UKI to decline to cover legal actions that arent 
the type of claims it agreed to cover when the policy was taken out. I also think that it was 
fair and reasonable for UKI to withdraw cover when it realised its mistake.
But theres no dispute that UKI shouldnt have accepted the August claim in the first place. 
My role isnt to punish businesses for making mistakes but to put the policyholders into the 
position that they shouldve been in all along. As Mr and Mrs S werent entitled to cover for 
this claim, if the mistake hadnt been made, they wouldnt have been covered anyway. 
Mr S has said that the initial acceptance of the claim has caused loss as steps have been 
taken which limits the options available now. The evidence before me doesnt show what 
Mr S means by this. What I can see is that Mr and Mrs S have received the benefit of legal 
assistance to which they werent entitled due to UKIs mistake. The agreed rate of legal 
costs was £177 per hour (plus VAT) for reasonable legal costs. I note cover was backdated 
to the date when Mr and Mrs S claimed under the policy in August 2019, which is fair and 
reasonable. The policy allows UKI to limit the costs in this way and its standard industry 
practice. I understand Mr and Mrs S have received payment of their costs, as have the 
second set of solicitors involved, direct from UKI. If the first law firm is seeking more, it may 
be because Mr and Mrs S agreed a higher rate than UKI agreed or additional work, but Im 
not persuaded Mr and Mrs should receive more for their legal costs. The evidence before me 
shows that UKI has paid a total of £12,865.40 in legal costs (including £6,402 direct to 
Mr and Mrs S for them to use towards legal fees from the first set of solicitors).
I note that much of Mr and Mrs S complaint to UKI was about the actions of the law firm they 
instructed before approaching UKI to make a claim under the policy. The law firm was 
independent and involved earlier than UKI. It isnt responsible for its actions or alleged 
failings.
UKI also accepts that it took too long to deal with the claims, as well as to realise that the 
August claim wasnt covered. I havent found that it was unfair or unreasonable for UKI to 
withdraw cover, so compensation for trouble and upset is based on that caused by only 
these failings. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, but I have to bear in 
mind that Mr and Mrs S gained from legal cover to which they werent entitled under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I think £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in dealing with the claims and to realise that the August claim wasnt 
covered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, particularly as much of Mr and Mrs 
S' distress appears to be with the actions of the first law firm (for which UKI is not 
responsible).
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask to accept or reject my decision before 9 
September 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman