DRN-3946875
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund him for flights
that he bought using his credit card. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr C purchased two return flights with an airline (A), through a travel
agent (G) for him and his wife, to America. They were due to fly out on 12 October 2021
and then return on 5 November 2021. Mr C used his Virgin Money credit card to pay G
£1,028.35 for the flights.
In July 2021, Mr C received an email confirming the visas he and his wife needed in order to
enter into America had been cancelled and the borders to America were closed due to
Covid-19. Mr C says without the visas, he and his wife wouldnt have been able to enter into
the destination.
In September 2021, Mr C says he received an email from G explaining that the original
flights he booked had been changed by A  the new flight was due to depart and return on
the same days as the original booking, but now both flights included an additional stopover
in a different country. Mr C says this would have added a significant amount of time onto his
overall travel. Mr C hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence to suggest he
responded to Gs email when they communicated the alternative flights, but he doesnt think
this alternative was reasonable. Virgin Money say Mr C accepted the alternative flights but
the evidence they provided appears to relate to a different booking Mr C had.
On 11 October 2021, Mr C emailed G and said the American borders had been closed due
to the Covid-19 pandemic and so he requested a full refund for the flights. Mr C received an
automated response from G on the same day but didnt hear anything more.
Mr C didnt receive a refund and so raised a chargeback claim with Virgin Money in October
2021. The chargeback was then defended as G explained Mr C and his wife didnt show up 
for the alternative flight which went ahead. And that there was no evidence to show Mr C
rejected the flight changes when this was communicated to him by G. Virgin Money also told
Mr C that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, there was no breach of
contract or misrepresentation caused by G. Therefore, Virgin Money didnt think Mr C was
owed a refund. However, Virgin Money did think Mr C was given poor customer service
when they advised him to contact them but didnt give him timings of when he should call
alongside when they called Mr C but they werent able to access their disputes system due
to a system error. For this, Virgin Money offered Mr C £80 compensation which hasnt yet
been paid.
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response, Mr C contacted our service. Our Investigator looked
into Mr Cs concerns and overall, didnt think Virgin Money had done anything wrong. In
relation to Mr Cs chargeback claim, our Investigator recognised he didnt specifically say he
wanted to cancel the flight booking when he emailed G on 11 October 2021, instead he
asked G for a refund. Having looked at Gs terms and conditions, our Investigator didnt find
a provision which allowed Mr C a refund. In relation to Section 75, our Investigator
concluded there wasnt the necessary relationship between Mr C, Virgin Money and A (as
they were the supplier of the flights) for a valid Section 75 claim. But in any case, even
though there wasnt the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship, our Investigator
looked at whether there was a breach of contract. However, as G fulfilled their role in the
transaction by making the reservation for the flights on Mr Cs behalf and the fact that the
flight went ahead, she didnt think there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Lastly, our Investigator said Virgin Moneys offer of £80 compensation for the poor service
Mr C received was fair and reasonable. So, our Investigator didnt ask Virgin Money to do
anything more.
Mr C disagreed. In summary, he explained the American borders were closed due to
government restrictions as a result of Covid-19. And the visas he arranged for him and his
wife had been cancelled. Therefore, it wasnt possible for them to travel to the destination.
Mr C also referred to another instance where he booked other flights, with the same airline,
for a different date, and he was offered vouchers when it was recognised by the merchant of
that booking that Mr C wasnt able to travel. So, Mr C has questioned why that isnt possible
in this booking with G. Mr C also said the alternative flight provided by G wasnt reasonable
for the same reasons he provided previously. And that the service provided i.e. the original
flight, wasnt provided to him. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter, setting out the below:
This complaint is about Virgin Money, as Mr Cs credit card account provider. Its not about
G, who arent a financial service provider and so dont fall within my remit.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that the visas he arranged for him and his wife were
cancelled so they wouldnt have been able to enter into America. Additionally, the
government rules in place at the time prohibited British nationals entering into America and
that the alternative flights provided werent suitable.
There is no automatic obligation on a credit card issuer to provide redress where one of their
customers uses their facilities to make a purchase, and something then goes wrong with that
purchase. However, there are typically two avenues via which the credit card issuer can help
or may have a legal liability.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr C does
here, Virgin Money (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. The process involves the
card issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme
operated by the companies which run the card networks, in this case its Mastercard. I would
normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a reasonable
prospect of this achieving a successful outcome.
It seems from the information provided to me that Virgin Money raised a chargeback with G
for goods and services not provided. G say they didnt breach their contract as the
alternative flights offered to Mr C and his wife, were available and went ahead. And G
provided evidence this was the case. So, Virgin Money say they were unable to take Mr Cs
chargeback claim any further. Having looked at the evidence provided, I can see the flight
still went ahead, and Mr C and his wife were deemed as no shows. This was because Mr C
says he was unable to get the flight due to his and his wifes visas to enter into the
destination being cancelled. With this in mind, I dont think theres a reason code Virgin
Money could have used in this case as G were able to evidence the flight was still available
and it went ahead. And I cant hold Virgin Money responsible for the visas being cancelled.Mr C says the flight weve referred to (which is the one that went ahead) was an alternative
flight and not the original flight he booked through G  therefore, Mr C says the service
wasnt actually available as the original flight wasnt available for him to go on. However,
while there was a change in the schedule, the service was still provided to Mr C. And having
looked at the original schedule alongside the alternative schedule, Mr C was due to depart
and return on the same days and there wasnt much difference in the timings of the flights.
Additionally, As terms and conditions allow for changes in flight schedules for a variety of
reasons which isnt entirely uncommon with airlines like A. But A were still able to fulfil the
contract as the service was provided.
Mr C has since complained that he wouldnt have accepted the alternative flight because it
wasnt possible for him and his wife to enter into America without their visas. Having looked
at As terms and conditions for when a schedule change occurs, it seems there would have
been a change in the flight tickets, so A had to effectively be told Mr C wasnt happy with the
change. And it seems from the information supplied by Virgin Money, new tickets were
issued for the alternative flight for Mr C and his wife. In terms of a cancellation request, Gs
terms and conditions set out any cancellation must be sent via email form at the latest three
working days after the event giving rise to the cancellation, but at least five working days
before departure.
On 27 September 2021, Mr C received notification of the flight change  but hes not been
able to provide us with any evidence to show he didnt accept these changes. Additionally,
Mr C previously told our Investigator he couldnt remember whether he replied to G or not
about the change. On balance, I dont think Mr C made G aware he didnt accept the flight
change as theres no evidence to suggest this was the case. And theres also evidence to
show new tickets were issued for the alternative flight for Mr C and his wife. In relation to the
email Mr C sent to G on 11 October 2021, he said he wanted a refund as he and his wife
couldnt enter into America. Even if I did consider this email amounted to a cancellation
request, it wasnt done in line with what Gs terms and conditions set out. So, I dont find it
likely a chargeback would have been successful if Virgin Money raised one for cancellation
of a service under the scheme rules, because Mr C didnt cancel the booking in accordance
with the terms and conditions.
Having looked at the Mastercard Covid-19 guidance, issued in May 2020, they refer to a
scenario which I think is most relevant in Mr Cs circumstance: 
Question: The cardholder is notified that the date of service (e.g. concert, sports event, flight
or package holiday itinerary) was changed/postponed due to COVID-19 restrictions;
however, the cardholder cannot or does not want to use the service on the new date. Does
an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: Yes. There is a chargeback right when services are changed or postponed by the
merchant and this is not accepted by the cardholder. Cardholders are not obligated to accept
reasonable alternative services unless required by the terms and conditions properly
disclosed to the cardholder at the time of the purchase, or applicable government legislation
or regulations.
In this case, Mr C was offered the option of not accepting the flight change in Gs email of 27
September 2021. But as Ive explained, theres no evidence to persuade me Mr C
responded to this request. The only piece of evidence I have where Mr C alludes to a
cancellation is when he emailed them a day before the flight was due to depart asking for a
refund. However, this was too late under Gs the terms and conditions.
So, with all of this in mind, even if Virgin Money didnt put through Mr Cs chargeback
under the most appropriate code in the first instance, it sounds like Mr Cs claim would havebeen unsuccessful anyway.
Overall, I dont think Virgin Money acted unreasonably in the way they handled Mr Cs
chargeback claim  ultimately, G was able to evidence the service i.e. the flight, was still
available. And Mr C wasnt due a refund as per the terms and conditions. While I appreciate
Mr Cs frustrations in that he was unable to travel on the flight as a result of the government
restrictions in place due to Covid-19, as well as the visas being cancelled, thats not
something I can hold Virgin Money responsible for here.
Mr C says G ought to have known about the government restrictions in place at the time
which prevented him and his wife from travelling to the destination. But thats not something
Virgin Money could pursue G for under the chargeback rules that apply.
Mr C has referred to another flight booking he had with A where he was offered vouchers
when it was recognised that he was unable to travel. Im only able to look into the actions of
Virgin Money in the particular circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going to comment
on any other offers Mr C may have received from A in relation to other flights.
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in
certain circumstances, if Mr C paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on his Virgin
Money credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier,
Virgin Money can be held responsible.
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS)
relationship in place. This normally means the person who owns the credit card account
needs to have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a company they
have paid using their credit card.
With that in mind, Mr Cs complaint about the flights being changed and the alternative flight
being unreasonable is a claim against A for a breach of contract and not G. But Mr C cant
make a claim against Virgin Money for this because he didnt pay A. Mr C paid G for the
flights. So, there isnt a valid DCS relationship in place with A.
However, I do think there is a DCS relationship in place for the services provided by G.
Turning to Gs terms and conditions, they set out that the service they provide is to make a
reservation on the customers instructions, for example, G can make reservations for airline
tickets. As the customers contractor, G formulate a travel agreement between the customer,
in this case Mr C, and his chosen service provider, A. Additionally, Gs terms say in carrying
out their activities, G will observe the due care of a proper contractor  essentially, acting
with reasonable skill and care. So, with this in mind, Im satisfied the contract Mr C entered
into with G was for them to provide a booking service and G provided this service. I havent
seen anything to suggest G didnt act with due care. So, I dont think there is a breach of
contract here.
Gs terms and conditions then go on to explain that cancellations and/or amendments to the
service can only be made by the airline or at the request of the customer. And that a
cancellation must be sent via e-mail form, the reservation must be cancelled by the person
who made the reservation and that this person must indicate definitively whether
cancellation of the booking is required. Having looked at the email Mr C sent to G on 11
October 2021, he requested a refund of the flights, he didnt definitively say hed like to
cancel the booking. In any case, this email wasnt sent in line with Gs terms and conditions
as they explain the cancellation must be sent at the latest three working days after the eventgiving rise to the cancellation, but at least five working days before departure. Instead, Mr
Cs email was sent more than three days after the email about the flight change, and one
day before the departure date. So, for these reasons, I cant say G were in breach of their
contract by not notifying A of his request for a refund because Mr Cs request came too late.
Ive also looked at the terms to see what it says about Gs responsibility in terms of airline
schedule changes. It says:
In the event of an airline schedule change, [Gs full name] will make every effort to inform
passengers of the schedule change and new flight schedule prior to departure. [Gs full
name] is not responsible for schedule changes including, when applicable, changes in
routing and/or the number of stops in the itinerary.
Ultimately, G informed Mr C of the flight changes as they were expected to do under their
terms and conditions. So, the fact that there were changes to the original flight, isnt a breach
of contract under Mr Cs contract with G. As Mr C paid G, the service he was to receive was
that set out under Gs terms and conditions  which as Ive explained is to make reservations
for airline tickets and to inform him of any schedule changes. So, with that in mind, I dont
think Virgin Money were wrong to decline Mr Cs Section 75 claim.
Customer service
I note Virgin Money have acknowledged the poor service Mr C received  specifically, they
sent Mr C an email asking him to call them in relation to his claim for a refund, but they didnt
provide him with specific times to call and when he did call, their customer service team
wasnt available. Also, Virgin Money acknowledged a time when Mr C called them and they
werent able to access their disputes system due to a system error. For this, they offered Mr
C £80 compensation.
It doesnt appear Mr C has disagreed with this offer. But nonetheless, I think Mr C would
have been caused inconvenience as well as frustration in not being able to successfully
reach Virgin Money when they asked him to call them. So, I think £80 is fair for the
inconvenience caused to Mr C.
Mr C responded and in summary, said he should have received a voucher or a refund for the 
service he couldnt use at the time as he said this was the recognised system in place at the 
time. Virgin Money responded and confirmed they agree with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate my decision has come as a disappointment to Mr C. But the contract Mr C 
entered into with G was for them to provide a booking service as well as inform Mr C of flight 
changes, which they did  Gs terms and conditions didnt allow for a refund in Mr Cs 
circumstances. 
I also dont think Virgin Money acted unreasonably in the way they handled Mr Cs 
chargeback claim for reasons explained in my provisional decision. However, for clarity, my 
decision remains that Virgin Money should pay Mr C £80 as compensation for the 
inconvenience caused as a result of the customer service Mr C received from them.My final decision
For reasons explained, I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr C 
£80.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman