DRN-3295674
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited unfairly turned down her claim 
on her mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A bought a mechanical breakdown insurance policy from Bapchild. A few months later 
she noticed a burning smell coming from the car, so she took it to a garage to investigate. 
The garage said her clutch and flywheel needed replacing so she claimed on her policy. 
Bapchild reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said the fault was due to driver technique 
and not an unforeseen and unexpected failure. Mrs A didnt agree and complained, she said 
she had only driven a few thousand miles since buying the car and the clutch was only 
showing as 60% worn according to Bapchilds engineer. She therefore didnt think it was fair 
for Bapchild to turn down her claim and referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Mrs As claim and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
while the engineers report said the damage was consistent with driver error, it hadnt 
explained why it thought that was the case here. Because of this she recommended 
Bapchild pay Mrs A the £2,343.84 shed paid to repair her car, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She also asked Bapchild to add 8% simple interest per annum to the 
amount it pays to compensate Mrs A for not having the money. 
Bapchild reviewed our investigators findings and disagreed. It said the damage to the clutch 
was consistent with driver technique and therefore didnt think the issue was a sudden 
mechanical failure.
As Bapchild disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As policy define mechanical breakdown as:
The sudden and unforeseen breakage of an item listed within 
the 'What is Covered' leaflet inserted within the back cover as 
verified by the Validation Certificate issued by the Company. 
Failure or breakage, the proximate cause of which is wear and 
tear, or items which may be considered to have come to the end 
of their normal life expectancy, are specifically excluded from 
coverage afforded by this warranty. In addition to this we 
specifically exclude water ingress, any foreign bodies and fluids
The what is covered section has a section titled Clutch and then says all components are 
covered. It also has a section titled Gearbox and again says all components are covered. 
The repair invoice for Mrs As car says the clutch assembly and dual mass flywheel needed 
replacing. Ive considered Bapchilds position that the fault is down to driver technique and 
therefore doesnt think the part has suffered a sudden mechanical failure. However, I dont 
think thats fair and reasonable.
I say this because at the point Mrs As clutch stopped working correctly and needed 
replacing it appears to have been a sudden and unexpected failure. This is because Mrs A 
said she noticed a burning smell and so took her car to a garage. Before this there doesnt 
appear to be any signs of an issue. So, I think its fair and reasonable to say its suffered a 
sudden and unexpected failure. 
The term also says it doesnt cover parts which have failed due to wear and tear or reached 
the end of their normal life expectancy. I note that on the engineers report it says the clutch 
centre plate was approximately 60% worn. Im therefore not persuaded that the fault with 
Mrs As car is due to wear and tear or the part has reached the end of its normal life 
expectancy. Because of this, and that Im persuaded the fault presented itself suddenly. Im 
satisfied the failure meets the definition in the policy of a mechanical breakdown. 
 
The onus would therefore be on Bapchild to show that an exclusion fairly and reasonably 
applies to turn down Mrs As claim. Ive reviewed the exclusions and there isnt one which 
excludes damage due to driver technique. Even if there was, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair and reasonable to apply it in this particular case. I say this because Bapchild has said the 
damage is consistent with driver technique but not shown this is the actual cause. Its gone 
on to provide a list of possible reasons for this, such as riding the clutch, overloading the car 
and towering other vehicles. Bapchild hasnt persuaded me thats whats happened in this 
case though as these are theories as to what could cause this failure, rather than what has 
actually caused this failure. It therefore follows that Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable 
for Bapchild to turn down Mrs As claim.
Mrs A has paid £2,343.84 to repair her car, the terms say the policy doesnt cover the first 
£100 of repairs. To put things right Bapchild needs to pay Mrs A £2,243.84. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per annum to this amount, calculated from the date Mrs A paid it until 
the date Bapchild makes payment to compensate her for not having the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited to pay Mrs A £2,243.84 plus 8% simple interest per 
annum. Calculated from the date Mrs A paid it until the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman