DRN-3942249
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund transactions that he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
What Mr B says
Mr Bs account received several large payments that were queried by HSBC. Mr B told them
that he was entitled to them. Mr B wasnt living in his house for a period of time, during which
time he says it was burgled and a safe broken into. In the safe was his card and personal
identification number (PIN) amongst other items.
Mr B later noticed several large outgoing bank transfers from his account, together with
smaller card payments that he didnt recognise. Mr B explained theyd taken place whilst he
was away from home and couldnt have been him. He approached HSBC about them and
asked for a refund which was declined by his bank.
What HSBC said
HSBC had received numerous reports casting some doubt on the payments that were 
received into Mr Bs account. They asked Mr B about them, including sending a letter to him 
which wasnt replied to. Mr B confirmed to the bank that he was entitled to the payments, 
mentioning that one of them was for money owed by someone, although no further detail 
was recorded by HSBC about them.
HSBC later closed Mr Bs account and didnt wish to make a refund to him related to his
claim that payments had left his account without his authorisation.
The investigation so far
Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review
of the circumstances where it was looked into by one of our investigators. It was established
from HSBCs records that four payments had been received into Mr Bs account and were all
linked to questionable activities by reports from the sending banks:
Date Amount
10/05/19 £4,075.00
29/05/19 £4,900.00
29/05/19 £3,625.00
04/06/19 £3,250.00
Total £15,850.00
Mr B provided a list of disputed transactions:
Date Payment type Amount
30/04/19 Card £62.38
01/05/19 Card 29.99
03/06/19 Bank transfer £5,000.00
04/06/19 Bank transfer £1,275.00
04/06/19 Card £6.62
04/06/19 Card £2.35
05/06/19 Card £7.20
25/11/19 Bank transfer £3,250.00
Total disputed £9,633.54
Mr B provided some details about the burglary on his home but was unable to obtain any
report from the police.
Mr B confirmed he was away from his home at the end of May 2019 until after the last
disputed transaction, so these payments couldnt have been made by him.
After considering the evidence, the investigator thought that it was likely Mr B was still
responsible for making these transactions by allowing others to use his bank account and
card.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint, which has now been passed to me. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs account prior to the receipt of the first payment linked to the fraud reports had a
balance of £2.68. From then on, all of the incoming payments into the account that funded
the disputed transactions were all linked to reports of fraud.
What that means here is Mr B has claimed that over £9,000.00 was taken from his account
without his permission  but its far from clear if he was entitled to those funds. So, unless Mr
B can evidence that hes entitled to them, he couldnt then claim that any payment from the
account should be refunded. Thats because those funds didnt, on the evidence provided by
HSBC, belong to him. If Mr B can provide evidence from the account owners that he was
entitled to those funds, Id then be able to assess the issue of authorisation and whether he
can be held liable for making those disputed transactions or not.
Id also note that hes claimed two disputed transactions based on losing his card in a
burglary (that took place whilst he was away from his home), but those payments took place
prior to the end of May 2019, when he was still at home. Theres been no explanation about
how someone could have obtained his card and PIN without his knowledge to make those
disputed transactions.
Ive also not seen any evidence of the investigation or official report of the burglary reported 
by Mr B, so Id encourage him to obtain that to show the loss of his safe.
I invited Mr B and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC didnt have anything further to add and Mr B 
was able to provide a copy of the police report.
Mr B was given additional time to provide further evidence but hasnt sent anything further.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
original outcome, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Although Mr B provided details of the police report, the principal issue here is that I havent 
seen any evidence to persuade me that I can address whether Mr B was entitled to the 
payments into his account. Neither has Mr B given any explanation how the burglary could 
account for some of the disputed transactions that took place prior to it. Based on the lack of 
plausible explanation about the payments or suitable evidence, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. I dont think its fair or reasonable for HSBC to make a refund.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman