DRN-2074944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that The New India Assurance Company Limited (NIA) declined 
their claim under their motor insurance policy after their car had been stolen. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws car was stolen by their daughter who then had it stolen from her by people 
she knew. The police recovered it damaged. NIA declined their claim because they said that 
the policy didnt cover the situation where a car was taken without consent by a family 
member who didnt intend to permanently deprive them of the car. 
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He thought NIA hadnt acted 
fairly and reasonably and they should treat the claim as valid because Mr and Mrs W had co-
operated with the police in the police investigation and prosecution of their daughter. NIA 
didnt agree. They thought that the policy wording was clear and regardless of the 
prosecution Mr and Mrs Ws claim fell outside the terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr and Mrs W reported the theft to NIA and to the police. They co-operated with the police 
and prosecution and their daughter was found guilty of taking the car without consent. Mr 
and Mrs W were willing to also cooperate with the charges against her friends, but that case 
didnt proceed.
In declining the claim NIA relied on the policy which excluded cover for loss or damage 
arising from the insured vehicle being taken by a person:
who is not permitted to drive under the certificate of motor insurance, and who is also your 
employee or member of your family or household or in a close personal relationship with you 
or your family or household unless you prove that the person intended to permanently 
deprive the owner of the insured vehicle. 
NIA said it hadnt been shown that Mr and Mrs Ws daughter did intend to permanently 
deprive them of the car. However since taking without consent is an offence under the Theft 
Act 1968, we consider it that is still an act of theft and we expect insurers to regard it as an 
insured event which is covered by the policy. Most policies theft by family exclusions say 
that the insured must co-operate with the police and prosecution. So If an exclusion doesnt 
say that, we think thats a significant and  unusual exclusion which should be highlighted at 
the point of sale. 
NIA have sent us the policy information documents the broker sent Mr W. But they dont 
include the specific exclusion on which NIA rely. And so I havent been shown anything to 
suggest that the specific exclusion was shown to Mr W at the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs W had co-operated with the police in their daughters investigation by the police 
and prosecution for the theft. This made it much the same as a theft carried out by anyone. 
The car was then stolen from their daughter by people she knew and Mr and Mrs W were 
willing to co-operate in that investigation and prosecution too. So overall, I dont think it was 
fair for NIA to apply the exclusion in those circumstances. I think that NIA should treat the 
claim as a valid claim by Mr W, who is the insured under the policy.
Putting things right
NIA should honour Mr Ws claim. They should also reimburse Mr W for the car recovery 
costs, storage fees, and any additional insurance costs directly resulting from NIA declining 
his claim. Mr W said that he sold the stolen car for scrap for £1,000 and bought a new car. 
But he was still paying finance on his stolen car. NIA should therefore liaise with the finance 
provider as well as Mr W about settlement. And NIA may, in line with their policy terms, 
deduct from their settlement amount the salvage cost that Mr W has received for the car, as 
well as any applicable policy excess. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require 
The New India Assurance Company Limited to do the following:
Deal with Mr Ws claim in accordance with the policy terms, deducting from the final 
settlement any policy excesses and the £1,000 Mr W received for scrapping the car.
Liaise with Mr W and the provider of the car finance to clarify what additional interest 
(if any) Mr W has paid, that he would not have had to pay, had this claim been 
treated as a valid claim from the outset, then add 8% statutory interest from the date 
Mr W made the payments until the date NIA make their final settlement.
Reimburse Mr W for the storage and recovery costs (in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy), plus 8% statutory interest from the date Mr W made the 
payments until the date NIA make their final settlement.
Reimburse Mr W for any additional insurance costs that relate directly to their 
declining his claim, plus 8% statutory interest from the date Mr W made
the payments until the date NIA make their final settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
