DRN-3207168
The complaint
Mr S complains that KGM Underwriting Services Limited has declined his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy following the theft of his motor scooter.
What happened
Mr Ss scooter was stolen from his garage and he made a claim on his policy. KGM asked 
for documents to validate the claim, but Mr S was unable to produce his drivers licence. He 
said hed had the licence for nearly 50 years, but he hadnt updated it when hed changed 
addresses. The DVLA was unable to identify the licence due to the passage of time. So, as 
KGM couldnt verify the licence and Mr Ss driving history, it declined the claim. Mr S thought 
this was unfair as he didnt ride the scooter on the roads and no insurer had asked for his 
licence previously. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Ss 
policy required him to have a valid licence. Mr S wasnt able to provide evidence that he had 
a valid licence so that KGM could check his driving history. So he thought KGM had fairly 
and reasonably declined the claim. 
Mr S replied that he wanted an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated that KGM has declined his claim., I can see that 
this leaves him out of pocket. Mr S took out his policy through a broker. He said he was then 
asked when he passed his test, but not whether he had a valid licence. But I cant look at the 
actions of the broker here as its a separate business to KGM, which was responsible for 
declining the claim.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I think its reasonable for KGM 
to carry out validation checks for a claim. And I think its standard in these to ask for a copy of 
the insureds driving licence so that their driving history can be checked with the DVLA. 
I can see that Mr Ss policy contains the following term under General Exclusions:
Use and Drivers
We will not pay for any loss, damage, injury, death or any other liability caused in any of the 
following circumstances whilst your vehicle is being used, driven or in the charge of for that 
purpose:
vi. By a person who does not hold a valid driving licence or is disqualified from driving
Mr S said hed passed his test in 1972 but he couldnt now locate his paper licence. The 
DVLA was unable to locate any information about Mr Ss licence. Mr S said hed moved 
house several times but hadnt updated his licence to a photocard. So I think theres no 
evidence to show that Mr S held a valid driving licence for his scooter at the time of its loss. 
And so I think KGM was then entitled by the policy exclusion set out above to decline his 
claim. 
Mr S said he never rode his bike on roads but took it to rallies in a van. But Mr Ss policy is 
comprehensive, and he agreed to its terms and conditions when he took it out. So I cant see 
that where he rode the bike is relevant to his claim for its loss. 
So I think KGMs decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. So I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman