DRN-3423535
The complaint
Mr H complains about an administrative error made by AMAS Investments Limited, he says 
this has caused him distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Broadly speaking the facts are not in dispute although Mr H still has some concerns 
about how the matter came about, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
AMAS offered Mr H £100 compensation to put things right but our investigator suggested it 
needed to do more. Our investigator said if Mr H could provide evidence of any financial loss 
suffered then AMAS should pay this and add 8% simple interest. He also recommended that 
AMAS pay Mr H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error caused. 
Both parties agreed with our investigators opinion, but Mr H wants AMAS to formally 
recognise and acknowledge the error it made. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: 
- Mr H said when AMAS employees visited his house they failed to comply with social 
distancing rules. Ive thought about this along with the explanation provided by 
AMAS. It said given the space where the meeting took place, maintaining further 
distance wasnt possible. On balance, the reasons provided by AMAS seem 
reasonable to me. Im satisfied that its agents visited Mr Hs home at his request and 
Mr H wouldve been aware of the circumstances before the meeting was held. 
- All parties agree that AMAS made an error in failing to eliminate the second 
paragraph on the letter of authority which resulted in it being appointed as Mr Hs 
servicing agent. And I can understand why Mr H is upset that this ended up being the 
case. 
- When a business has made an error I firstly need to consider if there was any 
financial impact. Here, Mr H had lost the benefit of a special fee agreement with 
another business. But I can see this has been reversed and Mr H is now back in the 
position he would have been in had AMASs error not occurred. Ive seen no further 
evidence that the administrative error resulted in further financial loss. 
- Mr H and AMAS agree that £200 compensation suggested by our investigator was 
enough to settle the complaint. But in addition to this, Mr H wants AMAS to formally 
acknowledge the error it made. Ive thought about this and overall, I think AMAS has 
accepted responsibility for its error. It did so by way of offering compensation as an 
apology, furthermore it has agreed to increase the initial offer of compensation. 
- Having looked at everything that happened and considering the impact on Mr H Im 
satisfied that £200 is a reasonable payment to put things right. 
- Whilst the administrative error caused Mr H distress in thinking he no longer had the 
benefit of his special fee agreement and the inconvenience in sorting this out, I think 
£200 fairly reflects the impact of this mistake. This includes the time taken by Mr H in 
getting to the bottom of what happened. This complaint has been upheld and the 
decision will be published naming AMAS as being responsible for the error it made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that AMAS Investments Limited should 
pay Mr H £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman