DRN-4224032
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled a standing order without 
their authority.
What happened
Mrs N and Mr N had a standing order set up on their account to pay a creditor on a monthly 
basis. Barclays cancelled the standing order without Mrs N and Mr Ns request or authority. 
Mrs N and Mr N werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mrs N and Mr N and explained that theyd received a request from 
the creditor directly which explained that no further payments were required by them from 
Mrs N and Mr N, and which asked Barclays to cancel the standing order. Mrs N and Mr N 
werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly by cancelling the standing order at the request of the creditor as they had and so 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N and Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
From a fairness perspective, I feel it was reasonable for Barclays to cancel the standing 
order having been told directly by the creditor that money was no longer required by them 
from Mrs N and Mr N.
I also note that the creditor told Barclays that they had tried to contact Mrs N and Mr N to ask 
Mrs N and Mr N to cancel the standing order themselves but had been unsuccessful. And 
the creditor asked Barclays to cancel the standing order only after their attempts to contact 
Mrs N and Mr N directly had failed.
Finally, I feel that if Mrs N and Mr N wanted the payments to continue to be made to the 
creditor, they could have set up a new standing order or made other arrangements to make 
those payments.
Ultimately, I dont think that Barclays have acted unfairly here, for the reasons explained 
above, and so I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further 
action. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs N and Mr N were wanting, but I hope theyll 
understand, given what Ive explained above  including the remit of this service  why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman