DRN-3619391
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels (esure) 
handled a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A has a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car. Mr A says that he was driving 
through a petrol station forecourt when a third party opened their car door into his car 
causing damage to it.
The police were called because the third party didnt want to give Mr A their details. Mr A 
was told that CCTV images of the collision were captured.
Mr A contacted esure and made a claim. esure said it deemed Mr A to be at fault for the 
collision because it said the location of the damage on the front bumper of his car meant that 
Mr A had effectively driven into an open door. Mr A says that the police viewed the CCTV 
footage and said he couldnt have prevented the collision because he was alongside the 
third party car when the door was opened.
Mr A paid for the repairs to his car himself at a cost of £500. He says he did this because he 
felt bullied by esure into doing so. He says esure said if he claimed for the damage, then 
his premium would be affected. If he didnt claim then it wouldnt.
Mr A was unhappy that esure decided to accept he was at fault without investigating the 
collision further, given the presence of CCTV footage and the polices opinion. He asked for 
copies of the calls he made to esure, but he didnt receive them. 
He asks that esure carry out a full and fair review of its decision after getting the CCTV 
footage and discussing it with the police. He wants esure to do this and change its decision 
from fault to non-fault. He also asks for the copies of the calls he made to esure, and for 
compensation for his stress and inconvenience.
esure say its policy wording gives it: 
"full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise, and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own 
benefit"
It says it:
simply cannot place any liability on the part of the other driver.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into it and said he didnt think esure had done enough to investigate the claim. He said esure 
should look at all the available information and re-examine liability for the collision. He also 
said it should pay Mr A £150 compensation.
esure didnt agree with the view. It said it held Mr A responsible for the collision because he 
needed to make sure it was safe to pass a stationary vehicle, and the terms of its policy 
allowed it to make this decision. It said the collision was recorded on esures system as a 
fault claim, but because no costs had been paid to either Mr A or the third party, Mr A had 
kept his No Claims Bonus.
Because esure didnt agree with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When investigating a complaint such as this one, this service considers whether the insurer 
has exercised its discretion to deal with the third party claim reasonably. We do not decide 
who was responsible for causing a road traffic incident, as this is what the courts do.
esure, like other insurers, will apply the terms and conditions of its policy when dealing with 
claims and its my role to decide if esure have treated Mr A fairly and reasonably.
The relevant part of esures policy wording is shown above. This type of policy term is 
commonly found in car insurance policies and it lets esure handle claims at its discretion. 
This is most often done with a view to stopping a claim being made in court to save time and 
money and sometimes it means that esure makes a decision its customer doesnt agree 
with. 
In assessing this complaint, I need to determine whether esure used its discretion to settle 
the claim fairly, based on the evidence that it had or could have reasonably obtained.
It seems to me that esures decision was based solely on Mr As description of the collision 
and the damage caused to his car. Mr A told esure in his initial call that he had photos of the 
damage and that he had been told CCTV footage was available. He repeated this in 
subsequent calls. But esure didnt act on this and maintained that he must have been at fault 
for the collision.
I dont think esure acted fairly here. It seems to me that further evidence was readily 
available and esure could have made further enquiries about it. The collision was also in the 
process of being investigated by the police and Mr A told esure this because the police 
already had the CCTV footage. 
I think its fair and reasonable to expect esure to gather more evidence about the claim and 
ask it to consider its position on liability.
Ive also listened to Mr As call with esure and I can hear esures claims handler explaining 
how his premium might be affected by asking esure to repair his car rather than paying for 
the repairs himself. esures claims handler explains things carefully and sensitively and says 
if Mr A pays for the repairs then his premium might be affected, but not by as much as if he 
claimed through esure. 
I can understand why Mr A found esures position on the claim frustrating, because its clear 
in the call that he felt like he had very little option other than to pay for the repairs himself.
I agree with our investigator that esure should pay Mr A £150 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience caused by esure not investigating the collision fully and the 
consequential frustration with esures claims process.In later correspondence, esure said it would refund the amount Mr A had paid for his own 
repairs. Our investigator has already explained to Mr A the possible impact on future 
premiums of him doing this, in the event that esure re-assess the collision and confirm it as 
Mr As fault.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct esure Insurance Limited to:
Fully investigate the collision and review all the available information, before deciding 
liability. 
Pay Mr A £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman