DRN-1682254
 
The complaint
Mrs J complains Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy that Mrs J took out in 1992 with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mrs J if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
From what Ive seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to Mrs J, so the 
key question I need to consider is:
-           Did Nationwide give Mrs J information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the insurance she 
was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mrs J is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs J says she was put under pressure to take the policy and that Nationwide didn't give her 
a proper choice about buying it. I've noted everything Mrs J has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs J and 
Nationwide when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Nationwide hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, which isnt surprising 
given the amount of time that's passed. And its similar to some other cases Ive seen.But without anything else to support what Mrs J has told me, I don't think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Nationwide didn't make it clear to her that the PPI was optional. 
Mrs J says she didn't need the policy because she didn't claim on it when she was made 
redundant. Nationwide didn't recommend the policy to Mrs J, so it didn't have to check 
whether it was suitable for her, or whether she had other means of covering her repayments 
if things went wrong.
But even if Nationwide had recommended the policy to Mrs J, it doesn't look like it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time. Even though 
she didn't claim on the policy when she was made redundant, I've seen nothing to suggest 
that Mrs J couldn't have made a claim if she'd still been out of work once the policy's waiting 
period had passed. So this point doesn't change my overall conclusions.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs J before she 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely Mrs J would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
Mrs J satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy, and her circumstances do not 
suggest she would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions). 
In summary, I think its likely that Mrs J agreed to take out the cover. And given it provided 
broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont think she would have made 
a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if shed been better informed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman