DRN-2433715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 2005 when they applied to re-mortgage. The sale took 
place in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name and gave him 
protection against accident and sickness. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M the PPI was optional, and they had to agree 
to take it. I cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive looked at the paperwork 
available from the sale. 
On Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application form the options to select or decline PPI were set 
out with equal prominence, and their form shows they selected accident and sickness cover 
for Mr M. He then completed and signed a separate PPI application form. Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage offer said, You are not required to buy any insurance from National Westminster 
Home Loans Ltd and made clear only buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. 
It listed PPI under the heading Optional insurance and set out the cost separately. 
So overall, I think NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs M chose to 
take it for Mr M.
Both parties told us NatWest didnt recommend the PPI. This means it didnt have to make
sure the policy was suitable for Mr M. But it had to give clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that they could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mr and Mrs M as much information as it shouldve done. But
I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the cover. I know he has questioned this but his policy covered 
self-employed people. And it seems he wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
main things not covered by the policy, such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr M told us as a company director he was entitled to unlimited sick pay. But I cant 
rely on this to fairly conclude he didnt want or need PPI. The evidence shows he 
chose the cover so it seems he thought that it would be useful in addition to his 
existing means. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and for up to 12 
months. He told us he had savings of £3,000 but the PPI would have allowed him to 
use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
their future needs. 
He said family and friends would have helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. Mr M also 
said he had business reserves he could use, and other assets he could sell. But the 
PPI would mean he didnt need to take such extreme measures at what would be an 
already difficult time. Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs M of defaulting on a 
debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if 
Mr M was sick or had an accident.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mr and Mrs M - it was set out on 
their mortgage offer - but I havent seen any evidence that the PPI premium was 
unaffordable, and the policy was reasonably priced given the benefit it offered.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman