DRN-3865935
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund disputed 
transactions debited from the companys mobile business account provided by ANNA. 
Mr P, who is the director of V, brings the complaint on Vs behalf. He says he did not 
authorise these transactions.
Vs account is branded as ANNA. ANNA acts on behalf of PayrNet Limited, but as Mr P 
knows the account by the name ANNA, I will mostly use that name throughout this decision.  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator when he wrote to 
PayrNet upholding Vs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr P was the victim of a violent mugging and assault in the early hours of 
21 May 2021. His mobile phone was taken from him. 
Mr Ps mobile phone was used to make transactions from Vs ANNA account, as well 
as transactions from accounts he holds with other financial businesses.
55 transactions totalling £27,550 were made from Vs ANNA account between 03:20 
and 17:37 on 21 May 2021. Almost all of the transactions were for £500 each and 
went mainly to the same new payee that was first set up at 2:57am. 
Some of the money transferred out of the ANNA account was moved in from another 
one of Mr Ps accounts. As those funds were refunded by the bank where the money 
was sent from, the amount of Vs loss from the ANNA account stands at £21,550.
 Police involved in investigating what happened to Mr P have confirmed it to be a 
genuine allegation of a crime that was reported at 3:10am on 21 May 2021.
Mr P first discovered his accounts had been cleared out when he tried to buy 
groceries on 22 May 2021. He contacted ANNA by email as soon as he realised. 
ANNA declined Vs claim for a refund. It said because the account was accessed correctly 
on the first attempt, V must not have safeguarded its payment tools in line with ANNAs 
terms and conditions. ANNA also said it wasnt immediately informed of the phones loss. 
Mr P brought Vs complaint to this service as he wasnt happy with ANNAs decision. He said 
he didnt know his phone could be hacked and his accounts accessed so had no reason to 
think there was any problem with his accounts until he had a transaction decline. He 
explained he thought hed done everything right and had been co-operating with the Police 
who had been using the FindMyPhone tracking feature to acquire the physical location of the 
stolen device. 
ANNA submitted its complaint papers to us defending its position. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He explained that ANNA had not 
provided any technical evidence to explain how the account was accessed to make the 
payments and he did not think it had done enough to show how Mr P had failed to safeguard 
security details. He was also concerned that the volume of transactions to the same recipient 
and for the same amount were not detected as potentially unusual and out of character 
transactions by ANNA.
The Investigator concluded ANNA should settle Vs complaint by refunding its outstanding 
loss of £21,550 together with interest on the sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the 
date the transactions were made to the date of settlement. He asked ANNA to confirm 
whether it was intending to hold V liable for losses up to a maximum of £35 resulting from 
unauthorised transactions from the use of a stolen payment instrument. 
The Investigators findings were sent to both parties on 11 November 2022 with a deadline 
for responding of 25 November 2022. 
Mr P responded the same day to say he would be happy to accept the outcome. ANNA did 
not respond by the deadline. Our Investigator chased ANNA using the same contact details 
it had previously responded from on 2 December 2022 and asked it to respond by 
9 December 2022.  
When no response was received, our Investigator prepared the file for referral to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision and notified both parties of this on 19 December 2022.
ANNA has still not responded. As such, the complaint has now been escalated to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
 reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure 
by a party to provide information requested;
And that 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from ANNA to say whether it 
accepts the Investigators assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of 
the evidence we already have and/or to take account of ANNAs failure to reply to the 
Investigators opinion.Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones V disputes.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, 
financial businesses will be liable for unauthorised payments. 
When ANNA provided its file to this service, it accepted that fraudulent transactions had 
taken place on Vs account. As ANNA accepts the transactions in dispute are unauthorised, 
it is not fair or reasonable for ANNA to hold V responsible unless V has failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms and conditions of its relationship with ANNA and 
the obligations set out in the PSRs 2017.
ANNA says that Vs account was accessed correctly from the first attempt so the security 
details to access the ANNA app from Mr Ps phone were not adequately safeguarded. 
ANNA has not provided any evidence showing exactly how the account was accessed to 
make the payments. It has not provided any evidence to show how it thinks the thieves were 
able to access Vs account using Mr Ps stolen device, nor has it provided evidence to 
explain how it considers Mr P fell short. This means that ANNA has not shown that Mr P has 
acted with a very significant degree of carelessness. I am not persuaded that Mr P didnt 
take sufficient care of Vs personal security information just because the account was 
accessed correctly from the first attempt.
This is in line with the FCAs position, as outlined in its document setting out its role under 
the PSRs 2017.
The FCA says: 
To avoid doubt, it is not sufficient for the PSP to assert that the customer must have 
divulged the personalised security features of the payment instrument, and to effectively 
require the customer to prove that he did not. The burden of proof lies with the PSP and if a 
claim that a transaction is unauthorised is rejected, the rejection must be supported by 
sufficient evidence to prove that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or 
intentional breach and the reason for the rejection must be explained to the customer.
To be grossly negligent, Mr P would need to have displayed a lack of care that goes 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness and I do not consider that ANNA 
has provided sufficient evidence to fairly justify its decision to hold V liable for the 
transactions in dispute.
In addition, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for ANNA to allow such a large volume of 
payments to go through without taking further steps to ensure V wasnt at risk from financial 
harm. A spending pattern which is clearly concerning and is not consistent with what ANNA 
knows about how V runs its account was developing. It is not unreasonable to expect a 
financial businesses fraud alerts to respond proportionately to the ongoing risk of fraud or 
financial harm. I think it is likely that appropriate intervention from ANNA would have 
prevented some of Vs loss. 
I also consider that Mr P did notify ANNA as soon as he became aware that transactions 
could potentially have been made from Vs account. Initially ANNA responded to say the 
account was fine and there had been no suspicious transactions. It was Mr Ps follow up 
question about the account balance that confirmed something had happened. Mr P still had 
the ANNA debit card in his possession. I dont think he should have anticipated that someone could have gained access to his mobile banking apps and made transactions from 
his stolen device, so I dont think it was fair of ANNA to say he acted with undue delay. 
From what I have to consider in this case, there is no debate that Mr P did not authorise the 
transfers in question and ANNA has not shown Mr P failed with intent or was grossly 
negligent with Vs security information and payment tools. As such, I am not persuaded that 
it is fair and reasonable for ANNA to hold V liable for these disputed payments and it should 
refund the remainder of Vs loss. 
As ANNA did not reply to our Investigator, it is unclear whether it would look to enforce the 
£35 that the relevant regulations say V could potentially be held liable for as a result of 
unauthorised payment transactions. 
ANNAs terms and conditions say that:
11.2 In the event that the Cardholder either blocks their Card or notifies us in accordance 
with this Agreement that his Card has been lost or stolen you will be liable for a maximum of 
£35 of any loss that takes place prior to us being notified, subject to paragraphs 11.3 and 
11.4.* You will not be liable for any losses which occur on your Card after you have informed 
us that it has been lost or stolen.
* 11.3 and 11.4 are terms excluding ANNAs liability for refunding if the account holder has 
acted with gross negligence or intentionally failed to notify ANNA of the loss of the card or 
security information relating to the account. 
I note that the terms and conditions predominately focus on the risk of loss or unauthorised 
use of the plastic card and not Vs payment tools. In this case, I dont think it would be 
appropriate for ANNA to seek to enforce the £35 because I do not consider Mr Ps phone to 
be a payment instrument, nor do I think it was sufficiently detectable to Mr P that the theft of 
his mobile phone could lead to Vs security information being used. 
Theres no doubt that Mr P has been caused worry and concern as a result of this matter. Its 
approaching two years since this happened and I can well understand that he wants to try 
and put this behind him. But as a limited company isnt a natural person, I am unable to 
award compensation for Mr Ps personal distress even though he has experienced this 
impact as a result of ANNAs actions.
At one point in ANNAs file, it suggested that it had been able to recover £10.99 from the 
beneficiary accounts, but it is unclear if these funds have since been paid to V. 
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, PayrNet Limited should now:
Refund the remainder of Vs loss, which is £21,550 (less any funds that were 
recovered and have already been paid to V)
Add 8% simple interest per year to this sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement 
If PayrNet considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell V how much its taken off. It should also give V a certificate showing 
this if it asks for one, so that V can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. Mr P should refer back to PayrNet if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.   
My final decision
I uphold Vs complaint about PayrNet Limited, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman