DRN-1868723
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) has declined to 
apply a promotional offer to a purchase made on his charge card account.
What happened
Mr E has a charge card with Amex. On 14 July 2019 he purchased flights from an airline 
using his card. Hes said that, the following day, he received an email with details of a 
promotional offer. This email explained that if he used his card to book flights via a specific 
airline, he could receive a 10% discount. The airline was the same one hed made a 
purchase from the day before.
Mr E contacted Amex and asked it to honour the discount for the purchase hed already 
made from that airline. Amex declined. Mr E then complained to Amex. He said he felt Amex 
had failed to advertise this promotion properly and hadnt brought it to his attention. He also 
felt it was unfair that it was not willing to honour the promotional offer.
Amex responded and said that to qualify for the offer the purchase needed to be completed 
via a specific web page. And Mr E had not done so  which he acknowledged. It also said 
that the offer was not in place at the time of the purchase. So, the transaction hadnt 
qualified. As a result, it didnt think it had made an error.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E asked our service to look into his complaint. He said that 
Amex was incorrect and the promotional offer hed received details of was in place at the 
time of the purchase he made on 14 July 2019.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Amex had done anything wrong. 
She explained that the advertising of promotional offers, including how this was done, is a 
matter of Amexs commercial judgement. And the information available indicated that the 
purchase Mr E made didnt qualify for the promotional offer. So, she didnt think Amex 
needed to apply it.
Mr E asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The offer that Mr E has complained about is promotional. It is not a term of the agreement 
between him an Amex. It is an optional benefit that Amex is not obliged to provide. Amex 
has explained that its promotional offers are not made available to every card holder. I think 
this is reasonable.
Amex has provided evidence that it was promoting an offer, similar to the one that Mr E has 
complained about, to certain customers earlier in 2019. This offered a 10% discount on 
certain flight bookings with a particular airline. But it has provided evidence to show that the 
offer it was promoting expired on 30 June 2019. Mr E made his booking with the airline on 
14 July 2019. So, his purchase did not qualify for this previous offer. As a result I dont think 
Amex has acted unfairly by declining to apply it to his transaction.
Mr E has provided details of the promotional offer which he says was emailed to him. This 
was valid until June 2020. Amex has explained that it was not responsible for this offer  it 
was provided by the airline in question. And looking at the terms of the offer they do state 
that the airline is the promoter and solely responsible or the fulfilment of the offer.
The promotional offer explains that for purchases to qualify they have to be made through a 
specific channel. They also explain that the offer only applies to certain types of flights. Mr E 
has acknowledged that he didnt make the transaction on 14 July 2019 through the specified 
channel. And it appears that the flights he purchased may also not have met the qualifying 
criteria.
So as the purchase he made did not fulfil the criteria for this offer, and the offer was the 
responsibility of the airline itself, I dont think Amex has acted unfairly by declining to apply it 
to his purchase retrospectively.
Mr E has said he is unhappy generally with how offers, including this one, are advertised by 
Amex. But again, these offers are not an entitlement under the terms of his agreement, they 
are discretionary. How Amex decides to market its promotional offers, and which card 
holders it provides these to, is a matter of its commercial judgement and not something we 
would interfere with. And in any event, as the offer he received by email was the 
responsibility of the third-party airline, I dont think Amex has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman