DRN-3834805
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lending Works Limited (Fluro Platform Limited) lent her a loan without 
proper checks.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision where I set out a detailed background to this complaint and 
explained why I was inclined to reach different conclusions to the adjudicator. I gave both 
parties a deadline to respond with further comments and evidence.
Excerpts of my provisional decision are below and form part of this final decision.
What happened
Lending Works lent Miss B a loan in August 2021, the loan was for £10,000 which
Miss B said she was borrowing for home improvements. The loan has a term of 60
months with monthly repayments of £219.55. Miss B has encountered difficulties
repaying this loan and the account has been passed to collections.
When Miss B complained to Lending Works, it didnt uphold her complaint, it said it
carried out sufficient checks and Miss B has sufficient income to repay the loan. Miss B
referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought Lending Works should have done more before agreeing to lend
given the loan amount and the term. He thought that has Lending Works taken its
checks further by building a clear picture of Miss Bs financial circumstances at the time,
then it would have seen Miss B was borrowing from other lenders and as shed have
been making substantial monthly credit repayments, Lending Works shouldnt have lent
to her.
Lending Works disagreed, it details the checks it carried out and how those checks showed
Miss B could afford the loan repayments. It said Miss Bs borrowing from other lenders was
recent and it didnt show up on its credit search. Based on the checks it considers
reasonable, Miss B had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Works is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to
ensure that Miss B would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way.
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences.
Lending Works has provided information to show it asked Miss B about her income at the
time it made its lending decision. It also says it searched her credit file. The results of the
credit search show Miss B has a mortgage which she was repaying £539 towards her
mortgage and £6 a month towards an unsecured loan. Lending Works says it verified
Miss Bs income as £2,571 and it worked her monthly expenses including the repayment of
this loan as being around £1,547, this meant Miss B had over £1,000 in disposable. On that
basis the loan was affordable.
Looking at the overall circumstances of this loan, I think it would have been reasonable for
Lending Works to have asked Miss B about her actual living costs rather than estimate this. I
say this because she was due to repay this loan for five years, given that length of time and
the large loan she was borrowing, an understanding of her actual income and living
expenses would have been reasonable.
Ive seen some of Miss Bs bank statements for the relevant period but in my opinion the
statements dont provide a clear picture of Miss Bs circumstances. There are transfers from
what appears to be Miss Bs other account and theres limited information about her living
costs on the entries on the bank statements. This service has asked Miss B for more
information about her circumstances at the time, but she has declined to provide this.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint based on the loans Miss B borrowed shortly before this
loan  which would have meant shed have been paying a substantial amount of her income
towards unsecured credit. However, I note that these loans show on Miss Bs bank
statements as being credited into her account on 3 August 2021 and this loan was lent on 19
August 2021. With such a short space of time, Lending Works argument of not seeing those
loans on a credit search is reasonable, the results of the search it has provided doesnt show
those loans. And even if Lending Works did request bank statements, I have doubts that the
statements it received would have shown transactions so close to the new loan being paid
out.
So while I think Lending Works should have taken its checks further, I dont know what it
would have found about Miss B living costs and based on the timings of the other loans she
borrowed, I dont think it would likely have been aware shed borrowed other loans at the
time it made its lending decisions.
I appreciate Miss Bs actual circumstances show shed borrowed these loans, but I dont
think thats something Lending Works would have found from reasonable checks. So, I dont
think it was wrong to lend.
I understand Miss B has now encountered financial difficulties with repaying the loan and Id
remind Lending Works of its duty to treat Miss B positively.
The deadline to respond has now passed, Miss B has responded to say she accepts my 
provisional decision and Lending Works hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the information available on this case, I see no reasons to depart 
from my provisional findings as neither party has provided further comments or evidence that 
persuades me otherwise.
Based on the limited information, I dont think Lending works was wrong to lend to Miss B. I 
would again remind Lending Works of its obligation to treat Miss B fairly in her financial 
difficulties.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman