DRN-2256253
the complaint
Mr B disputes the debit balance National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) referred to a 
recovery agent and says that Nat West didnt apply a credit of £1,800 to his bank account.
background
Mr Bs ex-wife was removed from his account ending 5941 in March 2017. Mr B says that 
shortly after this he and his ex-wife went into a branch of Nat West and paid £1,800 into his 
ex-wifes account. And agreed with Nat West the funds should be transferred into his 
personal account.
Mr B says the funds werent credited to his account.
Between March 2017 and July 2018 there were no transactions on Mr Bs account, other 
than unpaid direct debit charges, overdraft charges and interest. After Nat West had 
refunded £384.96 for charges applied to the end of October 2017, charges continued to be 
applied with no credits being made to the account. Nat West transferred the debit balance on 
this account to a recovery agent in July 2018.
In April 2019, Mr B complained to Nat West that it had allowed the debit balance on his 
account to increase to £1,320 by applying additional charges for unpaid direct debits, 
overdraft charges and interest. And that Nat West had colluded with his ex-wife to steal the 
£1,800 that he says shouldve been credited to his personal account. Mr B also complained 
that Nat West had stolen his wages and stopped payments to and from his account.
In April 2019 Nat West provided a final response to Mr B, and re-sent it in September 2019. 
It said it was unable to trace any record whereby the bank has taken £1,800 of Mr Bs money 
as there are no transactions for £1,800 on Mr Bs account. And it said it hadnt colluded with 
Mr Bs ex-wife to steal the funds and that the last wage credited to his account was in March 
2017. Nat West explained the additional charges werent for unpaid direct debits but were for 
overdraft charges and interest. Nat West didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with the response he received from Nat West, so he brought his 
complaints to this service in September 2019.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator thought Nat West had done nothing wrong, as 
there was no evidence that it had lost, or stolen the £1,800. The investigator noted that Nat 
West had asked Mr B for further evidence of the £1,800 payment, but it hadnt been 
provided. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
When I initially reviewed the complaints, it became clear that Mr B had raised similar issues 
with this service previously. I wrote to both Mr B and Nat West to explain I had looked at the 
previous complaint he made in September 2017 and the complaint he made to Nat West in 
April 2019  the new complaint. I then explained that the complaint points I can consider, 
which this service hasnt previously considered are:
Mr B is unhappy that charges for unpaid direct debits continued to increase his debit 
balance before the account was sent to a recovery agent in July 2018;
Mr B disputes the outstanding balance on account 5941 and says that Nat West was 
sending letters about this balance when it knew he had no fixed abode. And Nat 
West shouldnt have referred this debt to a recovery agent;
Mr B says Nat West colluded with his ex-wife to steal £1,800.
I invited any further comments or submissions from Mr B and Nat West, but neither provided 
any. 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 October 2020 explaining why I thought Mr Bs
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said:
Nat West previously refunded £384.96 for charges it applied to the end of October 
2017. This included a £6.00 charge for an unpaid transaction in July 2017. It did this 
in response to Mr Bs complaint in September 2017. And I think this was a 
reasonable remedy to resolve that part of Mr Bs complaint at the time, so I dont 
intend asking Nat West to do any more in respect of these charges. 
The last direct debit applied to Mr Bs bank account was collected in May 2017, so as 
Nat West refunded this charge, there are no other unpaid charges applied to the 
account. So, I dont intend asking Nat West to do any more in this regard. 
Mr B did incur charges on his account after October 2017. But these were interest on 
his overdrawn balance, an arranged overdraft usage charge and unarranged 
overdraft charges. These were applied until July 2018. The debit balance on the 
account rose to £1,320, but the increase wasnt as a result of unpaid direct debits. 
The increase was because of interest and overdraft charges. I think that it was fair 
and reasonable for Nat West to charge these fees as they were in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. So, I dont intend to ask Nat West to refund the 
interest and charges.
Nat Wests records show it became aware Mr B was no longer living at his address in 
August 2017. And it then traced Mr B to a possible address in September 2017. In a 
telephone call with Mr B around this time, Nat West records Mr B said it had obtained 
his new address without his permission, so it seems likely to me that Mr B was living 
at the new address Nat West was using. Nat West continued to use this address until 
it was changed by Mr B a year later.
Nat West has provided a copy of its internal account management system that 
records it sent Mr B four letters to the traced address in May 2018. These asked him 
to contact it to set up an affordable plan to repay the outstanding debit balance on his 
account. I can see that Nat West records it sent Mr B a default notice in early June 
2018, a formal demand notice at the end of June 2018, and then transferred the 
account to the recovery agent in July 2018.
Mr B says he didnt receive the above letters and that Nat West was sending them to 
him knowing he was of no fixed abode. However, Nat West sent these letters to the 
address it had been using since September 2017. And this was the address it had 
sent the final response it issued in October 2017 to. It is reasonable for me to 
conclude Mr B did receive this final response as he then called Nat West in June 
2018 to say he wasnt happy with it. So, I think it is more likely than not that Mr B did 
receive the letters Nat West sent him in May 2018 and June 2018. Whilst I understand Mr B may not have been residing permanently at the traced 
address, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nat West to send correspondence to 
the address it held between September 2017 and September 2018. Mr B told the 
bank it had his new address when he spoke with them in September 2017. And when 
he told Nat West of a further change of address on September 2018, the bank then 
used the amended address. So, I dont think Nat West did anything wrong here.
I have reviewed the account statements Nat West has provided and I can see that 
there were no credits to Mr Bs account between March 2017 and July 2018. The 
account balance had been in debit since this time and Nat West issued the default 
notice. Nat West hadnt received proposals to repay the overdraft, nor had it been 
able to agree an arrangement to reduce the balance. Before it referred the account to 
a debt recovery agent, I consider it took reasonable steps to contact Mr B during 
2018 to tell him the account may be defaulted if he didnt respond. And the default 
notice it issued reflected that there had been no payments received to the account 
since March 2017. So, I dont think Nat West did anything wrong here and it was 
reasonable for Nat West to instruct a recovery agent to seek payment. And I dont 
intend asking Nat West to make an amendment to Mr Bs credit history in this regard.
Mr B hasnt been able to provide me with any evidence that he and his ex-wife 
agreed with Nat West that a sum of £1,800 from the sale of his motorbike was to be 
paid into his account. It may well be that Mr B entered into an arrangement with his 
ex-wide in respect of this payment, but I have seen nothing to persuade me that Nat 
West either agreed to transfer funds to Mr Bs account or was involved in this 
transaction. Therefore, on the balance of probability, I dont think Nat West has done 
anything wrong here, or that it colluded with Mr Bs ex-wife in this regard.
Nat West has accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr B re-stated that £1,800 was paid into his ex-
wifes account as she had sold his motor bike on his behalf. He adds Nat West agreed to 
transfer the proceeds into their joint account and then remove Mr Bs ex-wifes name from 
the account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has asked why Nat West didnt transfer the £1,800 from his ex-wifes account to his 
joint account with her before removing her from the joint account. This is not new information 
and I dealt with this issue in my provisional decision. But to be clear, I wouldve expected to 
see some form of instruction from Mr Bs ex-wife to allow the funds to be transferred, but 
neither Mr B nor Nat West has been able to provide this. I acknowledge there may have 
been an agreement between Mr B and his ex-wife for this to happen, but Im not persuaded 
there was an instruction to Nat West to transfer the £1,800. Nor is there anything to 
persuade me Nat West stole the funds. So, although I empathise with Mr B that the money 
he expected wasnt paid into the account, I remain satisfied that Nat West wasnt responsible 
for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaints and I wont be asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to take any further action. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman