DRN-3333373
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs N took out the store card in 1996 but did not buy PPI at that time. It was in January 2001 
that Mrs N was sold the policy during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs N says that she didnt know she had PPI, meaning that it was added to her store card 
account without her knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the card application form. There is a section for PPI which Mrs N has left 
blank. PPI wasnt added to the account at that time which indicates that Mrs N did have a 
choice about buying it at that point.
Mrs N says that, if she had known she had PPI she would have claimed on it during a 
difficult period of her life between late 2001-2004. However, the policy provided cover for her 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. As such, Im not sure that the 
circumstances Mrs N has told us about would be covered under the policy terms. However, 
Mrs N may wish to consider making a retrospective claim on the policy.
Mrs N has also told us that she would have claimed on the policy during another difficult 
period in 2008. However, she has told us that she was working throughout that period and 
so she would not have met the criteria for making a successful claim at that time.
Mrs Ns store card had been running for almost five years at the time that she was sold PPI. 
So she would have known that having the policy wasnt a condition of the account. Mrs N 
has no strong recollection of the phone call in which she was sold the policy, which is not 
surprising given that it happened in 2001. The phone call is likely to have been a marketing 
call purely for the purposes of selling PPI. From what weve seen of the sales scripts used at 
the time, the policy would have been presented as optional and people had the choice to 
decline it. I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs N has said but overall, I am not persuaded that 
she wasnt given a choice about buying PPI. It seems to me that she most likely decided to 
buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
AXA needed to provide Mrs N with sufficient information for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her. I think Mrs N would have known 
something about the policy  that it would have protected her store card repayments if she 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think she 
would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs N would have received sick pay from her employer, but the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs N would have received full pay 
for. And Mrs N didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think that 
Mrs N had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Mrs N says that AXA has upheld a complaint she made about the sale of PPI on another 
store card and so she cant understand why this complaint has not been upheld. I havent 
looked in any detail at that case and do not know the reasons for AXA upholding it. However, 
I will just say that Mrs N believes that she took out the store cards with PPI within months of 
each other, but from the information Ive seen, that wasnt the case. The PPI on the other 
card was taken out in 1990 whereas the PPI on this card was taken out in 2001. Regardless 
of that, we look at each case on its merits, and so I have only looked at the evidence relating 
to this sale in 2001.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs N wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy.
As I consider that Mrs N had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off 
as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman