DRN-4066198
The complaint
Mr H complains that cash transaction fees were applied to his account with Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Cards.
What happened
Mr H used his Tesco credit card to make payment to other credit cards between April and 
May 2022. Tesco charged Mr H cash transaction fees for each payment along with interest. 
Mr T complained to Tesco and asked form the fees and interest to be removed.
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had sent a Notice of Variation (NOV) to Mr H in 
April 2018 explaining that it was changing its terms, one of the changes being in relation to 
the types of transactions it would treat as cash purchases. Tesco said that Mr Hs [payments 
to other credit providers were categorised as repaying borrowing for which a transaction fee 
was payable.
Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service. I issued a provisional decision in 
which I upheld the complaint. I explained why I wasnt persuaded that Tesco had done 
enough to show that it had sent the NOV to Mr H. I said that Tesco should refund the cash 
transaction fees and pay compensation to Mr H.
I invited both parties to let me have any further arguments or evidence they wished to reply 
on before I reach a final decision.
Tesco responded and said it didnt agree with my decision. It said it had provided the same 
evidence to support the NOV had been sent in other cases and that these cases had been 
upheld. It said it had sent the NOV to Mr H by email because this was his preferred method 
of communication and that it hadnt received any error messages to indicate that the email 
hadnt reached its destination.
Mr H responded and said he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments from Tesco. Firstly, its important to say that 
every case is looked at on its own facts, so whilst there may be similar cases which this 
service has looked into previously, this doesnt mean Im obliged to decide this case in the 
same way.
In my provisional decision I explained that I wasnt satisfied that Tesco had provided enough 
evidence to persuade me, on the balance of probabilities, that the NOV had been sent to Mr 
H. 
I appreciate that Tesco has provided a template of what it says would have been sent to Mr 
H and has stated that none of the emails sent to Mr H were returned. In relation to those 
points, whilst I accept that the template may be representative of what was sent to 
customers in relation to the changes, this of itself doesnt prove that the email was sent to Mr 
H. Tesco hasnt been able to provide this service with a copy of the email that was sent to Mr 
H. Further, whilst I accept Tescos evidence that it hasnt received any returned or 
undelivered emails from Mr H, this doesnt persuade me either, because it only proves that 
an email wasnt returned, it doesnt prove that an email was sent.
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and expanded upon in this 
decision, I remain of the view that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
To put things right Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Cards must refund the 
cash transaction fees and the interest which it applied to the account in relation to the cash 
purchases made between April and May 2022. It should also pay compensation of £100 to 
Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Cards must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman