DRN-3262631
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs E bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business R, in January 
1992. The cost of the timeshare was £5,500 and that was paid by a deposit of £550 and a 
loan of £4,950 taken with First National Bank Limited (First National). The loan was in joint 
names and set to run for ten years. Both the deposit and the proceeds of the loan werent 
paid to Business R, but to a different business, Business F, that was said to act as a 
stakeholder.
Mr and Mrs E said that when they took out the timeshare they were told that their 
membership term was indefinite, but if they wanted to dispose of their membership they 
could sell it back to Business R. However, when they tried to do this in 2012, Business R 
said that wasnt possible.
So Mr and Mrs E said that Business R misrepresented to them at the time of sale their ability 
to sell their membership and, had they known Business R would not have bought back their 
membership, they would not have taken it out in the first place.
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs E, using a representative, complained to First National about 
the sale. But as they didnt receive a response they came to our service. The representative 
sent us a number of different documents including a skeleton argument that set out Mr and 
Mrs Es claim in full. One of our investigators forwarded the complaint to GE Money to look 
into as it had taken over First National in April 2003 and Mr and Mrs Es representatives had 
sent their letter of complaint to First Nationals old address and not to GE Money. That 
meant GE Money wasnt aware of the complaint when it had first been brought to us.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and
Mrs Es loan due to the time that had passed. It said the loan was redeemed in 2002, so any 
information about the loan would have been destroyed around six years later. As the sale 
took place many years before the complaint, GE Money also said that meant the complaint 
had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid by First National to Business F 
and not Business R, so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in place for 
s.75 CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They thought our service had the jurisdiction to consider GE Moneys 
response to this claim and explained why. They also thought that there were the right types 
of arrangements in place so that Mr and Mrs E were able to make a claim under s.75 CCA 
even though the loan proceeds werent paid directly to Business R. But our investigator 
agreed with GE Money that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, so they 
didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked at 
s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated the enactment 
of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Es representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. And GE Money also responded to say it still didnt think this service 
could consider the complaint. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
After considering all of the evidence and arguments, I issued a provisional decision to set out 
my initial thoughts on the complaint. Having considered GE Moneys arguments, I thought 
our service had the power to consider this complaint. But, having looked at it, I thought GE 
Money acted fairly in turning it down as it had been brought too late.
I noted that GE Money raised several issues with the way in which this complaint had been 
considered and I thought they were:
1. Does the Financial Ombudsman Service have jurisdiction to consider complaints 
like Mr and Mrs Es?
2. Did Mr and Mrs E bring their claim in time?
3. Did the way in which the arrangements were made mean Mr and Mrs E couldnt 
have made a claim under s.75 CCA?
4. Should this service consider any claim under s.140A CCA if GE Money hadnt 
been asked to consider it first?
I considered each question in turn.
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints
GE Money raised a number of reasons why it thought this service doesnt have the power to 
consider Mr and Mrs Es complaint about misrepresentations under s.75 CCA. I read and 
considered its reasons, but having done so I thought our service did have jurisdicition to 
consider complaints such as Mr and Mrs Es. Since issuing my provisional decision, GE 
Money has said that, in Mr and Mrs Es case, it no longer objected to this service considering 
the merits of the complaint.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs E said that Business R misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA.
I said that if I were to find that there were the right type of arrangements in place for Mr and 
Mrs E to make a claim (which I considered separately), GE Money would normally need to 
consider the merits of that claim. But if GE Money thought the claim was brought outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering the claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs E brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs E had 
six years from the date on which the case of action accrued to being a claim.The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Es case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I thought that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so 
in January 1992. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on 
the misrepresentations of Business R. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with First National.
It follows, therefore, that I thought the cause of action accrued in January 1992, so Mr and 
Mrs E had six years from then to bring a claim against either the timeshare provider or First 
National (as it then was). But they didnt try to contact First National about their claim until 
January 2017, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives made several arguments why they dont think this is correct. 
I dealt with each in term.
They argue that under s.11A LA, time didnt start to run for limitation purposes for Mr and 
Mrs E until they first had knowledge that they could start proceeding against GE Money. This 
provision is titled Actions in respect of defective products and applies to an action for 
damages by virtue of Part 1 of the Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to 
actions that arise out of products and not services such as timeshares, so I didnt think it 
assisted Mr and Mrs E.
Neither in my view did s.14 LA, which simply defines what is meant by date of knowledge 
in other provisions that dont apply to Mr and Mrs Es claim.
I was asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or 
mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr and 
Mrs Es representatives hadnt explained how they think this applies to their claim that 
Business R misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare. Based on what Id 
seen at the date of the provisional decison, I couldnt see that there was any fraud, 
concealment or mistake.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives also say that, under our own rules, a consumer can make a 
complaint to a business within six years of the event happening or three years of when a 
consumer realised they had a reason to complain. But the rules the representatives are 
referring to set out the time limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business 
about a regulated financial activity. Those rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling, which in the current context, is a complaint that GE Money 
unfairly turned down their claim. But the reason it decided to turn down the claim was 
because it didnt think it was legally liable due to the operation of the LA, so that is why I 
considered that legislation.
Overall, I thought GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when assessing Mr 
and Mrs Es s.75 CCA claim and when it said it was brought too late.Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs E to make a claim under s.75 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS agreement) is a 
precondition to a claim under that provision. GE Money has said that here there was no such 
agreement on this occasion, as the supplier of the timeshare was Business R, but Mr and 
Mrs E actually paid a different business, Business F, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I didnt think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggested. I highlighted two court judgments that considered DCS agreements that 
suggested it was possible a court would conclude that there were the right arrangements in 
place that gave rise to a claim under s.75 CCA. But I made no finding on that point as, even 
if I did think such a claim could be made, for the reasons set out above I still thought GE 
Money would have a defence under the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs E could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
GE Money responded to say it objected to our service considering this provision as it says 
Mr and Mrs Es representatives never raised this in their letter of claim.
I noted that in this case Mr and Mrs Es representatives were unable to send GE Money their 
claim directly and it was sent on by our service. A number of documents were sent on, 
including the letter of claim originally addressed to First National and a Skeleton Argument. 
I can see that the letter of claim only mentions s.75 CCA. So, if that was the only document 
GE Money had seen I might have said it wasnt right for our service to consider s.140A CCA 
as part of this complaint. However, GE Money also had the Skeleton Argument in its 
possession when the claim was first sent to it and that document makes plain that Mr and 
Mrs E were relying on s.140A CCA. Given that, I thought it was appropriate for GE Money to 
have considered that claim and for our service to do so too.
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement.
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Es loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. I was not 
surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. But I 
noted that the loan was taken out in January 1992 and set to run for ten years. Based on the 
evidence Id seen, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Es agreement 
ended in January 2002 at the latest, so I didnt think they are able to make a claim under 
s.140A.
GE Money didnt assess any s.140A CCA claim and I thought it should have done so, so I 
couldnt say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I 
didnt think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I didnt think it 
needs to do anything further.
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Mr and Mrs E nor their representatives responded to my provisional decision.GE Money responded to say that, whilst it agreed with the overall outcome I had reached, it 
still had concerns that our service did not have the power to consider the complaint. But, for 
the purposes of this decision, GE Money agreed to withdraw its objections and agreed that I 
could deal with Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to reconsider the findings I reached of the merits of this 
complaint in my provisional decision, for the reasons set out in that decision, I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman