DRN-3490569
The complaint
Ms C complains about the value esure Insurance Limited offered in settlement of the claim
she made on her motor insurance policy.
Ms C is the policy holder and is represented by her daughter, Miss C who is a names driver
on the policy. For ease Ive referred to statements made by her representative as though it
were made by Ms C.
What happened
Miss C was involved in an accident in her mothers car and made a claim on the policy.
esure deemed the car a total loss and valued it at £3,657. It deducted £750 for pre accident
damage and offered Ms C £2,907 for her car.
Ms C didnt agree with esures valuation and says the amount it paid wasnt enough for them
to get a like for like car. Ms C said they were unable to find anything for less than £5,000,
plus an average delivery charge of £200 and said it was stressful being without a car for 7
weeks. She also didnt agree with the deduction for the pre-accident damage.
esure said it used vehicle valuation guides, CAP, Glasss, Cazana and Parkers, to work out
the market value of Ms Cs car. It said it took an average of CAP, Parker and Cazana in its
valuation. It didnt consider Glass because it found the figure it produced out of line with the
other guides.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for esure to
deduct £750 for the pre accident damage to Ms Cs car. However, he said esure had used
the wrong mileage when using the Cazana guide. As such he carried out his own search and
thought esure should increase its settlement from £2,907 to £3,498.
Ms C thought this was a fairer valuation but she thinks she should be compensated for the
extra time and effort that has gone into trying to find a replacement vehicle at the initial value
esure offered and for the inconvenience this caused.
esure hasnt accepted our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It
says the mileage was only 10 miles out and doesnt justify the amount the valuation has
increased by.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 May 2022 in which I said: 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle
fairly. Under the terms of Ms Cs policy, esure must pay her the market value of her car, less
her excess.
The policy defines market value as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP
Ms C said she searched online but couldnt find a like for like car for less than £5,000. Its
standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are
based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and
mileage for sale at the time of loss. We find theyre more reliable than individual adverts,
which can vary vastly and can also be misleading.
esures engineer estimated it would cost £1,500 to repair the pre accident damage to Ms Cs
car. However, Ms C says other cars of a same age to hers would have similar damage to
those on her car. Ive looked at the images of the pre accident damage alongside the
engineers estimate. Cars will often have some wear and tear, but having reviewed the
images of Ms Cs car, I find the damage more than standard wear and tear. Damage to a
vehicle will often adversely impact its market value, so I dont think its unreasonable for
esure to deduct a sum for the pre accident damage. esure halved the repair cost and
deducted £750 from the settlement figure it offered Ms C and I think thats fair.
esure obtained valuations from four guides, CAP, Parkers, Glass and Cazana. Its evidence
shows the wrong mileage was relied on when using Cazana. When we identify errors in the
engineers valuation, we often carry out our own valuation searches using the guides and
rely on the figures we get. However, in this case I dont think it results in a fair and
reasonable outcome. I say this because, the mileage on Ms Cs car was 60,457, however
esure used a mileage of 60,467, a difference of 10 miles. I carried out my own search using
both the lower and higher mileage and I found it made no difference to the figure the guides
produced. I found no other errors in the information esure used to obtain valuations from the
guides, so Im satisfied its valuations were accurate.
esures searches produced values of £4,200, £3,698, £3,658 and £3,615 for Ms Cs car. It
didnt use the figure produced by Glass as it found it to be out of line with the figures from
the other guides. We usually find a fair valuation would fall somewhere between the range of
figures suggested by the guides. esures valuation of £3,657 falls within the range of figures
Ive seen. I know this will be disappointing to Ms C, but Im satisfied esure carried out a fair
valuation of her car. As I mentioned earlier, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to deduct 
£750 for the pre-accident damage on Ms Cs car. Therefore, I find the settlement figure of
£2,907 reasonable.
Ms C would like esure to compensate her for the stress it caused her. As such, Ive
considered the impact of its actions on Ms C. I find esure carried out its valuation and made
its offer within a reasonable time. I think it was entitled to take some time to review its offer
when Ms C didnt accept it, and Im satisfied its actions didnt cause significant delays to the
settlement of the claim. Largely, Ms C found the process stressful because she wasnt happy
with the settlements it offered, but Im satisfied esure treated Ms C fairly. So, I dont think it
needs to do anything differently here.
esure accepted my decision and Ms C made no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from what Ive said in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman