DRN-3216328
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) removed his 
overdraft. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr C contacted Halifax and let it know he would need assistance to repay 
the arranged overdraft of £10,000 on his current account. A three month plan was agreed to 
gradually reduce Mr Cs overdraft and Halifax agreed to waive any applicable interest 
charges whilst the plan was in place. A further three month plan was agreed on                  
28 November 2020.
On 30 November 2020, Halifax wrote to Mr C to let him know it would be removing the 
arranged overdraft from his account in December 2020. Mr C complained to Halifax and said 
the tone of the letter was aggressive and he was worried about repaying the overdraft.  
Halifax looked into Mr Cs complaint. It apologised for the poor service it provided Mr C in 
August 2020. It accepted it made an error when it told Mr C the overdraft was a permanent 
arranged overdraft facility which wouldnt be removed. It paid Mr C £50 in recognition of 
these errors.
Following this, Mr C complained to Halifax again. He said he received a monetary gift from a 
third party to repay his debts and because Halifax told him the overdraft was permanent, he 
didnt use the gift to repay the overdraft. He said to repay the overdraft, he would need to sell 
some of his possessions at a lower value.
In February 2021, Halifax looked into Mr Cs concerns and said when it spoke to him in 
August 2020, it didnt tell him that it would be replacing his permanent overdraft facility with a 
temporary one, following it agreeing a payment arrangement. It paid Mr C an additional £200 
as an apology for the poor service it provided.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said that he wanted Halifax to write off his debt, he wanted it to set up a repayment plan 
and compensate him for the mental distress it caused him by misleading him about the 
overdraft being permanent.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs complaint. But she didnt think Halifax needed to 
do anything further. She said Halifax had agreed to a repayment plan with Mr C to allow the 
balance to reduce. She confirmed that Halifax didnt expect Mr Cs balance to be repaid 
within 28 days and said she felt the £250 Halifax had already paid Mr C was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed and said Halifax hadnt accepted a repayment plan. He said Halifax had a 
loan showing on its system which meant it was unable to come to an arrangement with him. 
He said he wanted confirmation that Halifax wouldnt close the account and force him to 
repay his outstanding balance within 28 days.
As Mr C remains in disagreement, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
This service has already considered a complaint about the loan that Mr C has mentioned 
under a separate complaint. So I wont be able to consider this complaint point as part of this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably when it removed Mr Cs 
overdraft. Having done so, I think it did. Ill explain why.
Mr C has said he wasnt aware his arranged overdraft would be removed at the end of the 
payment plan. But, Mr C has sent us a letter that Halifax sent him in early September 2020. 
This letter confirms that Halifax has agreed to temporarily increase his account overdraft limit 
and states the limit would decrease over three months starting from the end of      
September 2020. It also says that after the last reduction, the overdraft limit would be 
removed. And it confirms an overdraft can be removed, even whilst one has been agreed for 
a specific period of time. So Halifax told Mr C in September 2020 that the overdraft limit 
would be removed in December 2020. 
However, after the payment plan was renewed in November 2020, Halifax sent Mr C a letter 
explaining that the plan would end in February 2021. This letter didnt explain that the 
overdraft could be removed despite a payment plan being agreed. It then sent Mr C a letter 
two days later explaining the overdraft needed to be repaid in December 2020. 
Taking this into consideration, I think Halifax should have explained the overdraft could be 
removed before the repayment plan was due to expire, when the second repayment plan 
was set up in November 2020. However, I think Halifax put things right when it told Mr C two 
days later that the overdraft would be removed the following month, as per the letter it sent 
to Mr C in September 2020. So I dont think it needs to do anything further here.
An overdraft is a revolving credit facility and the terms and conditions of Mr Cs overdraft 
explain it is repayable on demand. Mr Cs arranged overdraft has been in place for a number 
of years and I can see from the account statements that Mr C has made regular and 
sometimes substantial payments into his account. But since November 2017, the account 
hasnt had a credit balance. Considering the length of time the account hasnt had a credit 
balance and as Mr C had asked Halifax to help him reduce his overdraft, I think it was fair for 
Halifax to remove the overdraft facility when it did. It was entitled to do this in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
I appreciate Mr C says he received a monetary gift from a third party to help him with his 
debts and if he had known the overdraft wasnt permanent he would have used these funds 
to repay his Halifax overdraft, rather than being forced to sell his possessions. However, 
Halifax told Mr C in November 2020 that the overdraft would be removed in December 2020. 
And the supporting evidence Mr C has provided shows the monetary gift was paid to him in 
January 2021. So Mr C was aware at the time he received the monetary gift that his Halifax 
overdraft was being removed.
Mr Cs account still has an outstanding balance remaining. Halifax has confirmed Mr C wont 
need to repay the overdraft in full within 28 days. But it says Mr C will need to contact it to 
set up an affordable repayment plan. Id like to take the opportunity to remind Halifax of its 
obligations to treat Mr C with forbearance and due consideration. 
Overall, whilst I agree that Halifax could have been clearer when it didnt tell Mr C the 
overdraft could be removed whilst the second payment plan was in place, I think the £250 it 
has already paid to Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman