DRN-3604823
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) closed his current account 
and credit card and also recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr Cs account received credits of £430 and £50. And in April 2021 his 
account received a further credit of £165. A significant proportion of these funds were 
transferred to betting accounts soon after they arrived. 
Shortly afterwards, Halifax received a notification from the third-party bank, which sent the 
April 2021 payment to Mr Cs account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being 
a victim of fraud, as they hadnt received items theyd purchased. Halifax reviewed Mr Cs 
account and as Mr C agreed to return the £165 payment, it decided not to close the account 
at this stage but instead warn Mr C that if it received any further notifications of fraud it would 
close his account. 
After Halifax subsequently received a notification from another bank explaining that its 
customer for the £430 and £50 transfers from March 2021 had reported being a victim of 
similar fraudulent activity, Halifax decided to close Mr Cs account and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against him. Mr C complained about Halifaxs actions. Halifax looked at 
Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr C remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Halifax has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Halifax must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Halifax also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr C was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr C allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Halifax had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Halifax has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Cs 
account in March 2021 and April 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only 
matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr C was complicit in allowing his account 
to receive these illegitimate payments. 
Mr C told us that he responded to an advert he saw which said he could make some money. 
Mr C spoke to this person on the phone and he offered him the chance to make some 
money by entering football pools competitions which this person would pay for but theyd 
split the winnings. Mr C says that he trusted this person and became friends with him after 
receiving some of these winnings. And when Mr Cs friend then asked if he would accept 
payments for goods he was selling he agreed to do so. Mr C says that he had no idea that 
the person wouldnt send on the items and that he received payments for some items which 
were sent. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt, Im afraid that there are a number of things which simply dont add up and which 
mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an unwitting participant here. I firstly say this 
because of the information Mr C originally produced to Halifax. Mr C produced an email 
which was from a completely different person saying that this was the email address his 
friend used. I think the fact that Mr Cs friend was using an email address with a completely 
different name meant that he ought reasonably to have been concerned about the legitimacy 
of what he was involving himself in.
Secondly, Mr C says and his statements show that he was asked to transfer the funds on to 
a betting account. It is firstly unusual, in itself, for someone to want another person to receive 
payments for goods, they are legitimately selling, into their account. But it is even more 
unusual for someone to then ask for the money in the form of credits to gambling accounts. 
And I think that this also ought to have alerted Mr C to the legitimacy of what he was 
involving himself in  especially as he was told to he could keep a percentage of the funds 
for himself. Indeed, Mr C keeping a percentage for himself doesnt tally with helping a friend 
receive legitimate payments. 
So Im satisfied that there were a number of issues that ought reasonably to have led Mr C 
to have had concerns about the legitimacy of what he was entering into and yet he decided 
to continue regardless of this. As this is the case, I think that Mr C, at the very least, 
proceeded in circumstances where he ought to have known that there was a significant risk 
that he might have been allowing his account to be used for illegitimate purposes. And as his 
account ended up being used for fraudulent purposes in these circumstances and he 
benefitted from this, I cant reasonably say that he was an unwitting participant here.  Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Halifax did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Cs account. And bearing in mind what 
Ive said above, Im also satisfied that Halifax was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it 
was more likely than not Mr C was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was unfair for Halifax to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did, 
even though Mr C might have been a long-standing customer of a number of over 20 years. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Cs accounts. I think its worth me explaining that the terms 
and conditions of Mr Cs accounts permitted Halifax to close them immediately and without 
notice where Halifax was reasonably entitled to believe there is illegal or fraudulent activity 
on or connected to the account. Ive already explained why I think Halifax was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that Mr Cs current account had been used for fraudulent purposes when 
explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Halifax to close Mr Cs account. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C  especially as he may have believed 
that hed got through these events with a final warning. But even allowing for the fact that the 
activity, which led to the closure and fraud marker being recorded, took place before the 
warning provided and was only reported afterwards, I still cant ignore the fact that the 
available evidence appears to show that Mr C benefitted from the fraudulent activity which 
took place on his account. So I hope Mr C will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman