DRN-1478768
The complaint
Mr O complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined the claim he made on 
his breakdown-repair insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O held an AA Breakdown Repair Cover (BRC) policy. This policy is underwritten by 
Acromas and is an optional extra added to Mr Os membership with Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AA). 
In July 2019, Mr Os car broke down. After calling for the AA, one of its patrolmen attended 
at the roadside. Amongst other things, he suspected there was a problem with cylinder five 
of the cars engine. The patrolman didnt complete any repairs, because it was agreed with 
Mr O that the car would get more comprehensive diagnostics testing at a repair garage the 
next day. And Mr O was able to drive the car home.   
The following day, Mr O took the car to a garage  which for the purposes of this decision Ill 
refer to as C. The mechanics at C also found that there was a problem with cylinder five 
and judged that it had been caused by a spark plug being incorrectly fitted previously by a 
different repair garage.
Mr O wasnt convinced that the previous garage had caused such a problem. Hed used 
them before to conduct servicing, among other previous work and in fact thought it was C 
that had brought about the damage. Either way, Mr O felt that the cost of repairs quoted 
should be covered by the BRC policy, so he asked the AA to pay for them.       
Its the responsibility of Acromas to decide claims on this policy and, upon considering the 
information available, it declined to cover the cost of repairs. It said that the BRC is in place 
to help towards the cost of any insured parts and associated garage labour to get vehicles 
back on the road. That is, to enable them to continue their journey  which Mr O was able to 
do without the need for repairs. Also, in order for the claim to be covered, the issue that had 
been identified by C needed to be caused by a sudden mechanical or electrical failure  
which Acromas didnt believe had happened. Further, it deems that Mr O is claiming for a 
part that isnt insured, as spark plugs are specifically excluded according to the policy terms. 
Unhappy with this, Mr O raised a complaint with Acromas, as he thought it should (at least) 
pay the cost of repairs that have been quoted. Again, Acromas maintained that it hadnt 
unfairly turned down the claim. So, Mr O brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. Having considered what happened, she didnt think it was fair to 
hold Acromas liable for the faults that had been found. Therefore, she didnt recommend it 
make any contribution to the cost of repairs quoted by C.   
Mr O does not agree. He submits that:
- The cylinder which both the AA and C claim was damaged by his previous mechanic 
is part of the engine, because its not disjointed in any way  and the engine is 
covered according to the policy terms. Therefore, as he sees it, the cost of repairs 
should be paid by Acromas  even if spark plugs are excluded.   
- Hes sought both legal and professional advice, which supported his belief that the 
cause of the problem with his car was not the fault of his previous mechanic. Not 
least, because hes been assured that if the area of fault was indeed faulty, then its 
not plausible that his car wouldve been able to function as it did for many months 
following its last service in November 2018. 
- So, essentially, he believes the AAs mechanic lied because he and/or C caused the 
damage. 
Because Mr O does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, its important to point out that within this complaint I can only consider the acts and 
omissions of Acromas as the respondent business. Should Mr O wish to resolve any 
potential dispute with C (or any other mechanics)  hell have to do so independent to the 
investigation of this complaint, and with an organisation separate to this service. 
Consequently, Ive only considered whether the cost of repairing Mr Os vehicle should be 
covered by Acromas. 
The cover set out in the BRC policy is designed to run alongside Mr Os AA membership, to 
cover the cost of parts which require replacing or repairing following a breakdown attended 
by the AA. However, the fact that the AA dispatched a mobile mechanic did not necessarily 
mean that any repairs needed would be covered by this BRC policy with Acromas.  
These two agreements are separate in this sense, with Acromas agreeing to cover Mr O for 
the cost of claims made under the policy; subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions in 
the BRC insurance contract. Amongst other things, this stipulates that a claim will only be 
paid to repair or replace insured parts, following a breakdown which occurs during a period 
of insurance. According to the policy, breakdown is defined as:
 Breakdown: A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey 
safely; and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to 
be resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA 
membership, commencedAcromas submits that Mr Os vehicle did not suffer a breakdown as a result of mechanical or 
electrical failure  which may well be true. 
But in any event, its not in dispute that following the roadside assistance provided by an 
AA patrolman Mr O was able to drive his car home. We know that he also made it to C the 
next day, which he managed by driving there and not by being towed, for example. As a 
result, its not in question that Mr O was not prevented from continuing his journey. 
Moreover, while the AA patrolman ran some tests and observed the adequacy of some of 
the functions of the car  he didnt repair or replace any of its components. That is, new parts 
were not installed to take the place of existing ones, nor were any parts restored by being 
repaired. Instead, original components were simply refitted after being studied. 
Crucially, it was only when Mr O took the car to C that such remedial work was cited i.e. 
once the car had already been driven away from the roadside location where he received 
assistance from the AA patrolman. Therefore, for the purposes of this claim, I cannot safely 
conclude that repairs or replacements were needed to enable Mr Os journey to be resumed. 
As a consequence, its my judgment that the agreed conditions required for a claim to be 
paid have not been satisfied  even if there wasnt a mechanical or electrical failure as 
described. It follows that I do not accept that Acromas has unreasonably rejected this claim.  
Notwithstanding this, I acknowledge Mr Os submission that the spark plug is only a by-
product of the true problem  because, in his view, the threading of the cylinder forms part of 
the engine. 
It would appear that the engine is a part included in this cover. Nevertheless, its Cs 
assessment that a spark plug had been inserted too tightly into cylinder five, which had 
stripped the threading. This finding strikes me as corroborative with the AA patrolmans 
theory that this particular spark plug was connected to the faults experienced. 
I find that the fact that two industry professionals independently reached consistent 
conclusions adds greater weight to the diagnosis that the way the spark plug was set into the 
cylinder consequently caused at least some of the damage. Besides, Ive seen no 
compelling argument that makes me doubt the evidential value of these opinions. Nor, have I 
been persuaded that they lack credibility or sincerity. Indeed, Mr O has produced no 
comparable expert evidence to contradict them. In light of this, I cant safely conclude that 
theyre unfair for Acromas to rely upon.  
Under the section headed What is not covered? it states that: Damage caused to an 
excluded or Modified Part or any consequential damage caused by an excluded or modified 
part. In other words, if a part is excluded from the scope of this cover, any damage caused 
by it is also not covered. 
Seeing as spark plugs are not included in the insured parts of this policy and Im satisfied 
that one of these components was at least partly responsible for the damage Mr O is 
claiming for  Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable to expect Acromas to pay 
anything towards the cost of repairs to Mr Os car. 
Taking this and all of the circumstances of the claim into consideration, I do not require 
Acromas to do anything differently for this complaint.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman