DRN-3705606
The complaint
Mr Is complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with him 
when he claimed under his policy for boiler breakdowns.
What happened
Mr I had had a HomeCare policy with British Gas for several years when his boiler stopped 
working towards the end of October 2021. The engineer who attended refitted a part, but 
problems persisted. The engineer returned the following day and told Mr I the controls for his 
system were faulty and obsolete.
There were two further appointments over the next two days, the first of which wasnt kept. 
At the second appointment, the engineer replaced a part which allowed the system to be run 
 although not automatically.
On the following day, British Gas sent Mr I a quote of £699.85 to replace his controls. They 
said this represented an upgrade to his system, so wasnt covered by the HomeCare policy.
An appointment was made to attend and complete the work in mid-November. But it wasnt 
made correctly, so wasnt kept. British Gas re-arranged the appointment for two days later. 
At this appointment, the controls to Mr Is boiler were replaced and the system left working.
Mr I complained to British Gas about the service hed received. And he said he thought the 
work to replace the controls should be covered by the policy. British Gas didnt agree with 
this and maintained the work was chargeable. But they did accept the standard of their 
service hadnt been acceptable and paid Mr I £120 for this.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with British Gass response as he still thought replacement of the 
controls should be covered by his policy. So he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered it but, before he could share his conclusions with the parties,   
Mr I contacted him to let him know the boiler had broken down again at the end of February 
2022  and this time, British Gas had said it needed replacing, but that replacement wasnt 
covered by his policy.
Our investigator asked British Gas if theyd agree to adding this additional complaint to the 
other he was considering. British Gas agreed. They said theyd not condemned the boiler. 
But theyd noted a part theyd fitted previously had corroded. British Gas said this wasnt 
covered because theyd previously advised a powerflush to improve water quality and help 
prevent corrosion  which hadnt been done.
And British Gas confirmed Mr I wasnt covered for a replacement boiler because his existing 
one didnt meet the criteria for cover. But they did say theyd reviewed their position with 
regard to replacing the boiler controls and now accepted this should have been covered. 
They apologised to Mr I for their mistake and said theyd cancel the invoice for £699.85 and 
refund the instalment payments hed already made.
Our investigator considered the full complaint and agreed that British Gas should refund all 
payments Mr I had made towards the £699.85, along with 8% interest for the time hed been 
without the money. But he said the policy didnt cover repairs if a powerflush had been 
recommended but not carried out  as had happened here.
Nor did the policy cover boilers more than seven years old, unless theyd been fitted by 
British Gas and been continuously covered by them since then. The investigator established 
Mr Is boiler had been installed in 2012 by an independent fitter  so it wasnt covered under 
the policy.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators view and reported that British Gas were continuing to
claim payments towards the invoice of £699.85 theyd agreed to cancel. So I was asked to 
make a decision.  Having considered all the evidence then available, I reached a slightly 
different conclusion from our investigator  so I made a provisional decision.
I agreed with the investigator that the work needed in February 2022 wasnt covered by the 
policy because British Gas had previously recommended a powerflush  which Mr I hadnt 
had done.  And I agreed that, due to its age, the boiler wasnt covered for replacement.  I 
also thought British Gas should refund any payments Mr I had made towards the invoice and 
pay interest for the time theyd held those funds. 
But I didnt think that was enough to put right that British Gas had charged Mr I for work 
which they now accept was covered by the policy  and had chased him for payment of that.  
I thought they should pay Mr I £150 compensation for this.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr I said that British Gas hadnt properly serviced the 
boiler.  He felt this had contributed to the need to have it replaced and so British Gas should 
pay 50% of the cost of the new one.
British Gas confirmed that theyd taken seven payments from Mr I, totalling £489.88.  They 
said theyd taken steps to cancel the invoice and refund this to Mr I.  And they said, once 
they had confirmation this had been done, they would calculate and pay him interest, as well 
as paying him £150 compensation.
The complaints now been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Is complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision and which Ive summarised above.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, the work undertaken in late 2021, for which Mr I was 
invoiced £699.85, should have been covered under the terms of the HomeCare policy.  So 
its only fair the payments hes made towards that invoice are refunded.  
Before I made my provisional decision, I asked our investigator to request Mr I send us 
copies of his bank statements, to evidence how much of the total of £699.85 hed paid.  Mr I 
provided a limited number of statements, which didnt cover the whole period in question.  
They show three instalments of £69.99 were paid.  
But British Gas provided information in response to my provisional decision.  They confirmed 
theyd received seven instalments in total. In the absence of information to evidence Mr I 
paid any more, Ive relied on that to say British Gas should refund Mr I seven instalments, 
totalling £489.88.And, because Mr I was without that money for some time, British Gas should also pay him 
simple interest on those instalments, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum from the time 
he made the payment until British Gas refunds him.
As to other payments, Ive thought about what Mr I has said about British Gas not servicing 
the boiler properly.  But  as I explained in my provisional decision - Im not an expert.  So I 
cant say the boiler stopped working as a result of poor servicing, as opposed to  for 
example  that Mr I didnt have a powerflush done when it was recommended.  So I dont 
think its fair for me to say that British Gas should contribute to the cost of Mr Is new boiler.
But it does remain my opinion that British Gas should pay Mr I £150 compensation for not 
accepting the work done at the end of 2021 was covered by the policy.  Im pleased to see 
British Gas accept thats fair and have said theyll pay this to Mr I.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Is complaint and directing British Gas 
Insurance Limited:
refund Mr I the seven instalment payments totalling £489.88;
pay Mr I simple interest on those instalments, calculated at the rate of 8% per 
annum, from the date Mr I paid each instalment until the date it was refunded to him; 
and
pay Mr I £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman