DRN-3903185
Complaint
Ms B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background 
In or around November 2015, Ms B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms B decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In October 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Ms B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
The system should be producing more energy than it was and was therefore 
underperforming. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms B or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had led Ms B to 
believe the system would be immediately self-funding. But they did think the system had 
underperformed compared to Ps estimates from the point of sale. They added that the 
generation and the subsequent FIT payments and electricity savings would
have induced Ms B into entering the contract. So, they felt this aspect of the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Shawbrook didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint. Shawbrook wanted to 
carry out an inspection to see whether there was a fault with the system. It also notified us 
that a previous fault had been repaired in December 2021. Our investigator felt Shawbrook 
had been given ample opportunity to complete its investigation and had not done so. In the 
interests of bringing matters to a close, they recommended Shawbrook offer redress to 
compensate Ms B for the losses she had suffered.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 19 December 2022, I set out why I was minded to upholding 
the complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish 
to make before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook did not respond while Ms B raised 
some additional points which I will address below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms B could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Ms B says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The CMC has recently submitted a meter reading showing how the system is currently 
performing. And Shawbrook has submitted a copy of Ps most recent inspection report. Ive 
also considered these as part of my assessment of the case. 
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Ms B was told that the cost of the system was £8,720. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £8,720. The total amount of credit is £8,720 and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £17,047.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £93.17. But I note Ms 
B deferred her payments for a few months which is reflected in her credit agreement and her 
monthly payment is also marginally different at £94.71  but I dont think these differences 
make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
she was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,720, it would 
cost Ms B more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Financial benefits 
Ms B has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period. 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £290, which results in an average monthly income of £24.16. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £227.36 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Ms B the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £600.69. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £93.17 (which annually amounts to £1,118.04). As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Ms B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.17. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £93.17, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Ms B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Ms B that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Ms B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 18 the overall benefits that Ms B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1947 kWh a year. 
Shawbrook says the system was previously underperforming in terms of power generation 
as there was a fault with the system which was repaired in December 2021. Ive looked at 
the performance of the system since the repair. I dont have a meter reading from December 
2021 but do have one from September 2021. And the annual generation from September 
2021 to October 2022 is 2063 kWh which is slightly more than the figure quoted in the MCS 
certificate and quote. This is even though between September 2021 and December 2021 the 
system was likely underperforming due to the fault. Ive also considered the annual 
generation from between March 2022 (the earliest reading I have post repair) and October 
2022  and the annual generation is 2,683 kWh. 
So, it seems that since the repair, the system is performing as expected and in line with the 
MCS and quote so is no longer underperforming. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
the system is now performing in line with the estimates set out by P at the point of sale. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
that also explains why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms B couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms B entered into the contract.
Underperformance between November 2015 and December 2021 
I have looked at Ms Bs FIT statements from before December 2021 and can see that her 
system, on average, had generated 1,395.87 kWh. This is significantly less than estimated 
by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system wasnt performing as expected. This 
also appears to have been accepted by Shawbrook and P.
As Shawbrook explained, the system required a repair which was completed in December 
2021 by replacing an inverter. P also offered Ms B loss of generation up until the repair. I 
understand Ms B didnt accept this offer at the time due to her believing the system was sold 
on the basis that it would be self-funding and she didnt think this offer adequately 
compensated her for her losses. 
But as Ive previously explained, Im not satisfied that the system was sold to her on the 
basis that it would be self-funding. I do, however, agree that it underperformed in terms of 
power generation prior to the repair in December 2021 due to a fault with the system. And 
given that Ms B has lost out because of the fault with the system, I think Shawbrook should 
put this right. However, I think since December 2021, the system has been performing in line 
with the estimate from the time of sale, so redress should only be limited to the losses 
suffered up until that point. 
Putting things rightI think Shawbrook should pay Ms B for the lost generation caused by the fault with the 
inverter with 8% simple interest. P calculated Ms B lost out on 3536.24kwh of energy which 
amounted to £801.94. I think the repair to the system, plus the compensation for lost 
generation is a fair and reasonable way to put matters right so I intend to ask Shawbrook to 
pay this to Ms B.  
So, I intend to order Shawbrook to pay: 
1. £801.94 for lost generation up until the repair in December 2021 with 8% interest 
from when it was offered in December 2021 until the date of payment. 
2. I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused and I think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to Ms B if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms B to enter 
into the contract for the system. But I do think the system had a fault which caused the 
system to significantly underperform until the repair was completed in December 2021. So, I 
intend to uphold this aspect of Ms B complaint.
Further submissions 
Ms B has reiterated that she feels the information she was given by P was misleading. Shes 
pointed out that an alternative solar panel company had visited her prior to P and told her 
that the position of her roof was not suitable for best performance from solar panels. She 
said P advised her to install panels on the side and front of her roof. Shes also questioned 
whether she needed 10 panels but agreed to it as she relied on the advice of P  who she 
felt were the experts. 
Ive thought about Ms Bs concerns, however it seems to me that P provided her with the 
panels it offered, installed them as they agreed and theyre now performing in line with the 
contract and quote. Additionally, if shed bought fewer panels, the system would produce 
less energy and reduced benefits. So Im not satisfied the information P provided was 
misleading and these comments do not change my view of the case. 
Ms B has finally added that she felt pressured to make a decision quickly as she was told the 
FIT rate could change. Pressure can be subjective, so Id need persuasive evidence that P 
placed undue pressure on her to purchase the system  which I havent seen. Additionally, I 
can see that she agreed to purchase the system on 6 November 2015. There was a 
cancellation form included in the sales quote which gave her 14 days to cancel if shed 
changed her mind. She also signed the express supply form which informed her that if the 
system was installed within the 14 days, shed only have until he day the service was 
supplied to cancel. Although  it seems the system wasnt installed until mid-December 
2015. It therefore looks like she did have the opportunity to cancel if shed wanted to and Ive 
seen no evidence that did. 
Overall Im not persuaded that P applied undue pressure and these comments do not 
change my view of the complaint. 
So having considered this complaint again in its entirely, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced 
Ms B to enter into the contract for the system. But I do think the system had a fault which caused the system to significantly underperform until the repair was completed in December 
2021. So, I uphold this aspect of Ms Bs complaint.
Putting things right
I think Shawbrook should pay Ms B for the lost generation caused by the fault with the 
inverter with *8% simple interest. P calculated Ms B lost out on 3536.24kwh of energy which 
amounted to £801.94. I think the repair to the system, plus the compensation for lost 
generation is a fair and reasonable way to put matters right so (if it hasnt already done so) 
Shawbrook should now pay this to Ms B.  
So, Shawbrook should pay Ms B: 
1. £801.94 for lost generation up until the repair in December 2021 with *8% interest 
from when the compensation was offered until the date of payment (if it hasnt already done 
so).  
2. I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused and I think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to Ms B (if it hasnt 
already done so). 
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman