The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Halifax. Around the same time, they took out 
a PPI policy.
The PPI would have protected Mr and Mrs Ss monthly mortgage payments and associated 
costs if either of them was off sick, or if they lost their job. Mr and Mrs S paid a monthly 
premium for the policy. The monthly benefit was around £486, and was split equally between 
Mr and Mrs S, so that it would have paid 50% of this if either of them had made a successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss signed mortgage application form. It included a
section about PPI, with a box to sign if the applicant wished to take the cover. Mr and
Mrs S signed specifically to confirm that they wished to take out the cover, in addition to
signing the mortgage application overall. Mr and Mrs S also signed a separate
application form for the PPI. So taking everything into account, I think Halifax made
Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional, and that they chose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. So it had a duty to check that it was
suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of
their circumstances at the time. If Mr or Mrs S had made a successful claim under the
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid 50% of the monthly
benefit for up to 24 months per successful claim. Thats longer than either of them would
have been entitled to full sick pay or redundancy pay for. Whats more, the policy would
have paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Mrs S received from their employers.
So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
DRN-2142309Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs S have told us that they both had life insurance and 
critical illness cover. But those provide different types of cover, and would have paid out 
in different circumstances from the PPI. So I dont find that Mr and Mrs Ss existing cover 
meant that they didnt need PPI. Mr and Mrs S have also mentioned that they had some 
savings, although  understandably, given the time thats passed  theyre not sure how 
much. But theyd chosen to hold on to those savings, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage. And having the PPI would have allowed them to keep their savings, or to use 
them to pay for other things if Mr or Mrs S had been off sick or lost their job. 
The mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr and 
Mrs Ss property, and the consequences of falling behind with their mortgage payments 
could have been serious. So taking everything into account, I think the policy would have 
provided valuable protection for Mr and Mrs S.
The monthly cost of the policy was shown on the PPI application. So I think Mr and 
Mrs S would have understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And since they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time if their circumstances 
changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have been affected by any of these. Ive borne in mind 
that Mr and Mrs S have told us that Mrs S suffered from a long-term medical condition at 
the time when Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI. But shed not had any significant absence 
from work as a result of the condition. And Im satisfied, in any event, that the policy 
wouldnt have excluded a claim resulting from Mrs Ss condition if shed needed to make 
one. 
So I think its unlikely that better information about the policy would have made Mr and 
Mrs S change their minds about taking it out. And taking everything into account, I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold. 
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about 
never having missed a mortgage payment. But PPI, along with other types of insurance, is 
designed to protect the policyholder against unexpected events. Im satisfied that the policy 
could have provided a significant benefit to Mr and Mrs S. And the fact that, as it turns out, 
Mr and Mrs S havent needed to claim on the policy doesnt alter my view that it wasnt mis-
sold.
This means Halifax doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But 
Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didn't tell Mr and Mrs S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI wasn't mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) doesn't have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman