DRN-2696071
The complaint
Mr W complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his bike insurance
policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr W held a bike insurance policy with MCE that he took out through a price comparison
website.
In August 2019 Mr Ws bike was stolen, so he made a claim under his policy. But MCE said
the questions theyd asked him about the overnight storage of his bike had been answered
incorrectly. So they chose to decline his claim, avoid his policy and retain the premiums hed
paid, as they said hed made a reckless qualifying misrepresentation.
Mr W says the misrepresentation was an accident, and hed always provided an accurate,
consistent description to MCE in previous years. So he thought it was unfair of MCE to avoid
his policy and retain his premiums on this basis, and brought his complaint to us.
An investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought Mr Ws misrepresentation was
careless rather than reckless. So she didnt think it was right for MCE to avoid his policy and
retain his premiums. She said they should instead settle his claim on a proportionate basis.
But MCE argued that Mr W had several opportunities both during the application and shortly
after to check that what hed declared was accurate, and didnt do so. As no agreement was
reached, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 where I said the following:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under 
CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, or careless.
MCE says Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application that the overnight storage location of his bike was 
a garage. So Ive looked at the questions Mr W was asked.
The first set of questions were from the price comparison website. They asked Mr 
W where his vehicle was stored overnight, and gave him the options of garage, 
road, or driveway to choose from. Mr W selected garage.
Mr W said hes unsure why he chose garage at this point, as his bike is always 
stored under a covered shelter in his locked garden. But given the narrow nature of 
the options Mr W had, I dont think road or driveway would have been any more 
of an accurate description. Also, Mr W wouldnt have been able to proceed any 
further with the application without selecting one of these. So I dont think its fair to 
say he failed to take reasonable care at this point.
Having completed the application on the price comparison website, Mr W was then 
presented with a number of quotations from different insurers. He chose MCE, 
and was directed to their website where he was asked further questions, including 
a question about the overnight storage of his bike, and this time, was presented 
with 11 options to choose from  including, but not limited to, carport; locked 
compound; and private property.
Given the options presented by MCE above, I think Mr W could have at this point, 
amended his original answer to something more closely matching his 
circumstances, such as a locked compound. Yet he failed to update his answer at 
this time.
As well as asking Mr W about storage during the application, MCE said Mr W was 
also required to tick a box to state hed read and understood the Key Facts and 
Terms before purchasing the policy, which he did. The first page of that Key Facts 
and Terms document asks:
Are you sure your vehicle is garaged?
It then goes on to say:
If you have told us that you keep your bike in a garage please read and check the 
below definitions. If we do not believe that where you keep your vehicle can be 
classed as a garage, you will not be able to make a valid claim. Please check with 
us if you are unsure.
It then explains what it does and doesnt consider to be a garage. It says:
A garage is 
-A locked structure for housing motor vehicles constructed of brick, concrete, steel or 
stone which is your private property.
A garage is not 
-A rented/own space in a shared car park
-A parking area in / under flats
-Any form of locked compound
-Any building not built for housing motor vehicles such as a home or a workplace
So I think Mr W shouldve been aware by now that he was not keeping his bike in 
what MCE considered a garage. And wouldve also been aware of the importance of checking this information, and the potential consequences of not doing so.
In addition to both the application questions and the key facts document, MCE also 
emailed Mr W a week after taking out the policy, addressing him by his first name 
and said:
MCE are always looking for ways to communicate even better with our customers. 
This is a quick email to explain some areas that occasionally need a little more 
detail. If youd like to discuss your policy with us or any of the points below, you can 
chat with us live on the MCE website. You can also email us at [email provided] or 
call one of the team on [phone number provided].
It then went on to say:
If you have not said you keep your vehicle in a garage, please skip this section. 
We have a clear definition of what a garage is  please check the information 
below closely, and make sure you have told us the correct storage for your bike.
They then set out the same definition of a garage as they did above. MCEs 
provided an audit trail to show this email was opened by Mr W three days after it 
was sent. I think again, this was a further opportunity for him to check this 
information and amend it accordingly.
So based on the above, I think Mr W had multiple opportunities to provide MCE 
with a more accurate description of where his vehicle was being stored overnight, 
but failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent his position at each 
opportunity.
MCEs shown that had Mr W answered locked compound when asked about 
overnight storage, they wouldve still offered cover but a higher rate, and have 
provided quotations to reflect this. So Im satisfied MCE was right to treat the 
misrepresentation as a qualifying one.
MCE have treated Mr Ws qualifying mis-representation as reckless and have 
therefore avoided his policy and chosen to retain the premiums paid. I appreciate 
Mr W says he made a genuine mistake and should have chosen locked compound 
rather than garage. But I can also see that on four previous policies, where Mr W 
said hed provided a consistently accurate description, that hed recorded the 
storage of his vehicle as a locked shed, which was also incorrect. So I dont think 
this supports his argument.
I appreciate Mr W may have initially made a mistake. But he was asked on a 
further two occasions in writing to check and amend the details hed provided 
regarding the bikes storage yet made no amendments at each point. So based 
on the number of opportunities he was presented with, I think it was fair for MCE 
to consider his qualifying misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.
CIDRA sets out that in the event of a reckless misrepresentation, the insurer can 
avoid the policy and keep the premiums paid. This is what MCE did, and set out 
within their final response letter. So I think their actions in this regard were fair.
I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr W was hoping for, but I hope I have been able 
to set out clearly why I feel that MCE have acted reasonably in handling his claim.MCE responded to my provisional decision to say they had no further comments to add. 
Mr W confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and felt the outcome was unfair, but he 
raised no new points or further arguments by the deadline given. 
As the deadline for responses has now passed, Im ready to issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have raised any further arguments in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from my earlier findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman