DRN-2263472
The complaint
Mr H complains because Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Ageas. 
Mr H travelled abroad on 14 March 2020 and was due to return on 21 March 2020. On the 
day Mr H arrived at his destination, he received a letter from his hotel stating that due to 
government restrictions as a result of Covid-19, he should stay in his room as much as 
possible. 
Mr Hs original return flight was subsequently cancelled by his airline and Mr H paid for a 
new return flight with a different airline on 21 March 2020, with a later departure time. 
Mr H made a claim under his policy with Ageas for the following costs;
his new return flight;
a taxi from his accommodation abroad to the airport;
fuel costs, as his new return flight arrived into a different UK airport. 
Ageas said Mr Hs claim wasnt covered under his policy. Initially, it said there was no cover 
under the cancellation or curtailment sections of cover for claims arising from prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country. 
When Mr H disputed this, Ageas said the cancellation and curtailment sections of cover 
didnt apply to the circumstances of Mr Hs claim. Ageas said there was no cover for 
abandonment or travel delay in the circumstances either, and that Mr Hs airline was 
responsible for refunding him for his cancelled original return flight. 
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said the replacement flight, taxi and 
fuel costs which Mr H was claiming for werent covered under his policy. But our investigator 
thought Mr Hs trip had been effectively curtailed, so she recommended that Ageas should 
refund Mr H for the cost of his accommodation. 
Ageas didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and the terms and conditions of Mr Hs 
policy dont list pandemics as a specific, insured event under any of the sections of cover.
The policy provides cover for cancellation and curtailment in certain circumstances. The 
terms and conditions say:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip  
Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country are excluded. 
Mr H didnt cancel or cut short his trip, so I dont think his claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of his policy. 
But, in line with my remit, Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. 
As Ageas has correctly pointed out, travel insurance policies dont cover loss of enjoyment 
and Mr H used his accommodation, so he hasnt suffered a financial loss in that regard. 
However, in certain limited situations, this service takes the view that it would be fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to treat a policyholders trip as having been effectively curtailed or 
effectively cut short, even though the policyholder didnt return home early. 
Ive considered the extent of the restrictions imposed on Mr H at the accommodation where 
he was staying abroad. The swimming pools, solarium, recreational and sports areas such 
as the tennis courts were closed, and it was recommended that Mr H should stay in his room 
for as long as possible. Guests were told they were only allowed to circulate on public roads 
for a list of limited reasons including to buy food, pharmaceutical products and basic 
necessities. Mr H says he would have cut his trip short if he could have arranged a new 
return flight any sooner, but he bought the first available alternative return flight, arriving into 
a different UK airport to the one hed departed from. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the restrictions imposed on Mr H at his accommodation from the 
day of his arrival were so severe that the purpose of his trip was frustrated. I think Mr H 
derived very little benefit from his accommodation abroad and I think his trip was, in effect, 
cut short even though he didnt actually return to the UK earlier than planned. 
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable to consider Mr Hs claim as having been 
curtailed in the circumstances. The curtailment section of Mr Hs policy provides cover for 
specific insured events giving rise to a claim, one of which is quarantine of the policyholder. 
Quarantine isnt defined within the policy. Mr H was subject to what I think were strict 
isolation restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of disease. So, Im satisfied Mr H was, in 
effect, subject to quarantine which is an insured event under the curtailment section of his 
policy. 
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas to accept Mr Hs claim for his 
accommodation costs and his unused transfer costs under the curtailment section of cover. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr H has the right to recover these costs from the providers directly and Mr H didnt pay by credit card, so he cannot make a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act as Ageas has suggested. 
Although Mr Hs original return flight was also unused, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Ageas to refund Mr H for these costs. I understand Mr H says he hasnt 
received his money back for the original flight, but I think its likely Mr H is entitled to a refund 
for this from his airline. This is something Mr H would need to pursue with the airline directly.  
The curtailment section of Mr Hs policy doesnt cover additional costs so I dont think I can 
fairly ask Ageas to pay the part of his claim relating to the new return flights, taxi or fuel 
costs. 
There is also cover available under Mr Hs policy for travel delay benefit or an abandonment 
payment in certain circumstances. But travel delay benefit is payable only on the happening 
of specific insured events, none of which apply to Mr Hs claim and abandonment only 
applies on the outward journey. 
Putting things right
Ageas needs to put things right by accepting Mr Hs claim for his accommodation costs 
under the curtailment section of his policy from 14 March 2020, subject to the applicable 
policy limit and/or excess. Ageas should also pay for Mr Hs unused transfer costs. 
Ageas needs to add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the claim until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman