DRN-3970546
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr M bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr M alleges that the supplier 
misled Mr M into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the documents 
from the time of sale (which Mr M signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel 
system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr M says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr M and his representatives disagreed for the following reasons:
The representative felt that no consideration had been given to the verbal 
representations made by the supplier. 
They reiterated that Mr M had been verbally told the system would be self-funding 
and that the financial benefits provided by the system would cover the costs 
associated with the system including the finance. 
They felt consumers should not have to carry out any calculations to work out that 
what they were being told was not true
The representative added that Mr M would not have purchased a system that would 
have increased his outgoings.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
Section 140 is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this 
case, the representative relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, broadly for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with the sales documents and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
This contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel 
system next to the estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system. 
From this section, I can see it was made clear that the maximum first year benefit Mr M 
would receive would be £342.04. 
Immediately next to the first-year benefit, the contract also set out the costs associated with 
the system. The purchase price was £6,395 which was to be paid using finance. It goes on 
to show that Mr M would be taking finance from Ikano in the form of a 120 months (i.e.  a10-
year) loan.
Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. 
And Mr M has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the very 
least, seen this comparison when he signed the document. I also think the sales document 
likely reflects the discussions Mr M had with the supplier. 
While I appreciate that we wouldnt expect consumers to carry out calculations, I think its 
apparent that in order to repay £6,395 over 10 years, Mr M would need at least around £600 
annually to meet the loan payments (and this is without any interest or charges). I think this 
is devisable without carrying out any calculations and apparent from a quick glimpse of these 
figures. But his estimated maximum first year benefit was only £342.04.  
Additionally, I can see Mr M went onto to sign the credit agreement on the same day 
showing his monthly payments were £70.35. I also think its apparent that 12 payments of 
£70.35 is significantly more than £342.04 without doing any calculations.  
As explained above, not only were these figures presented clearly on the sales documents, I 
think the documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mr M would have had with the 
supplier. So my view is that these figures were discussed with Mr M and it seems to me that 
the cost of the system, including the finance charges, and Mr Ms estimated year one 
benefits were made clear to him at the time of sale. I dont think its likely Mr M would agree 
to such a significant purchase without discussing the costs of the loan, the likely income hed 
receive and considering the likely impact on his financial situation  especially when this 
information was laid out for him clearly in writing for him to check and sign. Overall, I think it 
would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way he 
says he was told they would be.
If Mr M had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Ms 
understanding, at that time. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mr M would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding. As Mr M then went on to take out finance to fund the purchase of 
the solar panel system, he further increased his costs  as he agreed to pay not only the 
cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it was 
clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price of the 
solar panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by the 
system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which included 
interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ms testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140 the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. Ikano has confirmed that it paid no commission to the supplier and, 
considering that I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude 
that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think the system was mis-represented to Mr M 
and so I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Ikano to decline Mr Ms claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman