DRN-3737952
The complaint and what happened
Miss V complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Miss V was looking to rent a property. She found one through an online classified ad 
company and reached out to the private landlord. They sent her pictures and other 
information about the property. After expressing her interest in viewing the property, 
the landlord told Miss V that he was conducting a group viewing for 17 prospective 
tenants. But also said that if anyone was willing to pay a deposit, theyd take the 
property off the market. 
Miss V was willing to pay the deposit but not until paperwork was sent through. A 
tenancy agreement and deposit form were sent. The rental agreement explained that 
a months rent - £630 - was required as a deposit and rent was payable a month in 
advance. Miss V sent £1,260 to the landlord; with an agreement she would pick the 
keys up a few days later. However, when Miss V arrived at the property, the landlord 
didnt show up and didnt reply to any of Miss Vs attempts to contact them. It was 
then she realised shed been scammed and reported it to her bank that morning.
Starling declined to reimburse Miss V as it said she hadnt done enough to establish 
there was really a property for rent, including viewing it. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint as she was satisfied Miss V had a reasonable basis for belief in who and 
what she was paying for and so she was due reimbursement under the Lending 
Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). Starling disagreed as it 
still didnt think Miss V had done enough but was willing to offer to refund the deposit 
but not the firsts months rent (and it felt Miss V had had a choice in paying it). 
Miss V declined the offer and the investigator stood by her outcome, and so the 
matter has been referred to me for review and determination.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The CRM says customers who are victims of authorised push payment fraud should 
be reimbursed except in limited circumstances. Those exceptions relevant here are:
oThe customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made. 
oThe customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that:
oThe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay
oThe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
oThe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
If Im satisfied Miss V had a reasonable basis for belief, then under the CRM she is 
entitled to a full reimbursement of her loss. And it isnt enough for Miss V to believe 
she was paying a legitimate person or business for genuine goods or services, she 
had to have a reasonable basis for belief. 
Starling has made several arguments as to why Miss V didnt do enough to establish 
the offer was genuine. It said she didnt take steps to verify the landlord was really a 
landlord, a genuine landlord wouldnt pressure someone into renting a property, she 
agreed to rent the property without visiting it, the tenancy agreement still had 12 
months and not six months to run, she paid the deposit to the landlord when its 
supposed to go the deposit guarantee scheme and she only needed to pay the 
deposit and not anymore. 
Miss V found the rental offer in some classified ads, and the landlord was a private 
landlord not operating through an agency. Im not quite sure what steps Starling think 
Miss V could have taken to check if the person was really a landlord. Although it has 
argued the landlord pressured Miss V, having read the messages, they simply stated 
a number of people were interested and anyone paying the deposit in advance could 
secure the property. This isnt quite the same as pushing Miss V to make a decision 
really quickly by pretending someone else was making a deposit or someone was 
about to sign a contract, for example. I accept that Miss V herself might have felt the 
need to act quickly, as she didnt want to lose the property, but Im not persuaded the 
landlord pressured her per se.  I accept Miss V didnt view the property, but since the 
pandemic it has become quite common for properties to be rented without being 
seen first, particularly as there was a shortage in the rental market and prospective 
tenants were offering over and above rental fees to secure properties. Even to this 
day, there are regular articles in the media about the shortage of rental properties 
and that many viewings are virtual, or not at all. Im not persuaded any of this means 
Miss V didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that the offer was genuine. 
I accept the rental agreement was for 12 months in the contract, but I can also see 
that Miss V asked for this to amended to six months. Im not persuaded this ought to 
have alerted Miss V to something being wrong. Starling has also raised the issue of 
the deposit and first months rent being paid, when it wasnt required, and also that 
she paid the landlord the deposit when it should have gone to the guarantee scheme. 
According to gov.uk the landlord or letting agent should put the deposit in the scheme 
within 30 days of it being paid. And although Miss V only needed to pay the deposit 
for the property to be taken off of the market, the tenancy agreement required a 
deposit and for rent to be paid a month in advance.  This is very common when 
renting. So Im also not persuaded these arguments mean Miss V didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief either.
I have noticed the person paid didnt have quite the same name as the landlord, 
although it was very similar. Miss V was given bank details with an initial and 
surname although it appears she must at some point, have been given the first name 
as well, as this appears in the payee information provided. But Im not persuaded this 
of itself, or in conjunction with what else I have considered, means Miss V ought to 
have been alert to something being wrong or that she wasnt paying a legitimate 
person for genuine goods or services.
Although accepting Miss V could have done more  as can most customers  overall 
Im not satisfied Starling as established she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
that she was paying a legitimate person for genuine goods or services. It follows that 
Im not persuaded the exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to Miss V, 
such that Starling can choose not to reimburse her. 
Finally, I note that Starling has referred to Miss V indicating she had visited the 
property, when asked questions about the purpose of the payment, when it was 
being made. Miss V answered yes, but that was a mistake, as she hadnt.  I accept 
Starling may very well have provided a warning had it known that Miss V hadnt actually seen the property. But as I have found Miss V had a reasonable basis for 
belief, this doesnt affect her entitlement to a refund under the CRM. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Vs complaint. I require Starling 
Bank Limited to:
Reimburse £1,260 to Miss V (less any funds since recovered, if any); and
It should add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date it declined to 
reimburse Miss V, to the date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman