DRN-3583349
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, were wrong to report a
missed payment to her credit file.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Halifax reported a missed payment to Ms Ss credit file in December 2020 when a payment
they were expecting to be paid by direct debit was not received.
Ms S has provided evidence to show she set up the direct debit on 9 December 2020 and
that Halifax agreed to collect her direct debit on 17 December, 6 working days later. That
was ample time for the direct debit to be established. Shes provided a response from the
bank the payments were to come from, and I can see the payment wasnt made because the
account was being reviewed for security purposes, that review was concluded shortly 
afterwards. It clearly wasnt a review that Ms S was aware of nor was it an issue for which
the bank attributed blame to Ms S.
Financial organisations have a duty to provide accurate records of consumers financial
history. That in turn helps lenders and account providers to make more informed decisions
on a consumers financial situation.
But in this case I dont think it was fair of Halifax to continue to report a missed payment after
Ms S had explained the situation. It wasnt a true reflection of her financial performance as
Ms S clearly had the funds to make the payment and had done all she could be expected to
do to ensure the direct debit was established. Once she realised the payment hadnt gone
through she made sure payment of the whole balance was paid immediately and shes
explained that she has never failed to do so in the ten years or so that shes had an account
with the Halifax.
So, in those circumstances, I would agree with Ms S that it wouldnt be fair to keep reporting
the missed payment and Halifax should remove it from her credit file.
Ive considered whether to ask Halifax to compensate Ms S for reporting the missed
payment, but I dont think that would be fair here. Halifax merely reported the fact that a
payment had been missed, they did what they were required to do but its evidence that has
come to light later that demonstrates its likely that wasnt a true reflection of Ms Ss 
performance on the account.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Bank of
Scotland plc to remove the missed payment marker from Ms Ss credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S was happy with the provisional decision and had nothing else to add.
Halifax accepted the outcome but wanted me to clarify whether I thought theyd done 
anything wrong or whether the issue had arisen because of the failure of the bank the 
payment was to come from. They said they didnt believe any missed payment had in fact 
been reported to the credit reference agencies and they provided a copy of Ms Ss credit file 
from Experian that demonstrated no marker was showing. They said theyd be happy to 
remove any markers from the other providers (Equifax and TransUnion) if they were present, 
but they didnt have access to the reports.
Putting things right
Ive already explained that I think this was a problem not of Ms Ss making. The direct debit 
had been set up in ample time for the payment to be made. I can understand that when 
security checks prevented the payment being made Halifax may have sought to report the 
missed payment. They had an obligation to do so. But as Ms S had done all she could to 
ensure the payment was made on time I dont think it would be fair to report any issues to 
the credit reference agencies.
The redress Im suggesting therefore remains unchanged and whilst I understand that 
Halifax have demonstrated a marker doesnt exist on one account, if Ms S can identify the 
accounts it has been reported to, Halifax will need to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Bank of Scotland plc to 
remove the missed payment marker from Ms Ss credit file if, and when, she can identify the 
agency reporting it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman