DRN-4424739
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed his losses after he fell victim to 
what he considers was a scam. 
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here. In summary, in April 2023 Mr N made a payment of £750 from a savings 
account he held with Lloyds for collectable cards he wished to purchase. Mr N says he came 
across the seller on a known marketplace.
On receipt of the collectables, Mr N disputed the quality of the goods and didnt consider the 
cards to be genuine/authentic. 
Mr N contacted Lloyds to see if there was anything it could do to help and to see if his 
money could be recovered. Lloyds declined to reimburse Mr N his loss. Lloyds considered 
the payment Mr N made under the voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019, and it is a signatory of. It 
concluded Mr N didnt have a reasonable basis to believe that the purchase was genuine. It 
felt Mr N didnt do enough to protect himself. 
Unhappy, Mr N referred the matter to our service. An Investigator looked into things and, in 
short, she considered whether the faster payment Mr N made was covered under the CRM 
Code. 
The CRM Code sets out when banks (so both sending banks and receiving banks) should 
reimburse a scam victim and it provides increased protection for customers who are the 
victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to every type of disputed payment. The 
CRM Code doesnt apply to disputes that are deemed to be a civil dispute between two 
parties. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she considered the matter was a civil
dispute  and the CRM Code didnt apply to the payment Mr N had made. So, she didnt 
consider Lloyds was liable to refund Mr N for his losses.
Mr N disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans review as the final stage of our process. 
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Mr N authorised the payment. Under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, that means he is liable for it in the first instance. But, as mentioned 
previously, Lloyds agreed to comply with the CRM Code. In certain circumstances, that code 
can entitle a customer to be reimbursed by the bank after theyve fallen victim to a scam, so 
Ive taken that into consideration. 
Ive thought carefully about Lloyds actions and having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr N, but I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds 
should reimburse him. I will now explain why. 
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr N, and I appreciate this has had an impact 
on him. Its understandable, having lost this sum of money, why Mr N feels he has been the 
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost money are in fact fraudulent 
and/or a scam.
The CRM code is explicit that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a 
Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services  but has not received them, 
they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
This isnt a straightforward question to address. To be satisfied that Mr N fell victim to fraud, 
Id need to be persuaded that the seller he dealt with had the intention from the outset to 
defraud him. I cant know for sure what was in the mind of the seller at the time they entered 
into this agreement with Mr N. So, when considering the above, I need to decide whether the 
available evidence suggests it is more likely than not that the seller intended to defraud 
Mr N. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded it can reasonably be said 
that Mr N fell victim to fraud here. I say this because, looking at the advertisement/listing for 
the goods (collectable cards), I can see the seller set out that the cards were found in a 
house clearance and was open to offers. The listing showed a picture of one of the cards 
and set out that others were available. Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ns comments about the 
legitimacy of the cards and his belief that on discovering the cards that the seller would have 
recollected their origins and legitimacy, I am mindful that the listing thats been given to our 
service does not specifically comment on the goods authenticity. Further, I note from Mr Ns 
submissions to us that it was after he made the payment that he says he brought up the 
legitimacy of the goods. Hes said this was after a friend made some points about one of the 
cards. 
Within the messages Ive seen between Mr N and the seller, where Mr N raised the 
legitimacy of the cards, after he made the payment, I note the seller informed Mr N that to 
the best of their knowledge the cards werent counterfeit. I havent seen any information that 
shows the seller tried to validate the authenticity of the cards but merely explained that to 
their knowledge the goods were genuine. In this case, I havent seen any evidence that 
shows the seller was experienced in selling/trading such goods  collectable cards. Simply, 
that cards were found in a house clearance and were listed for sale. 
Further, in the messages given to us, I can see the seller attempted to respond to Mr Ns 
messages about the cards and the quality of them - in what appears to be an attempt to 
address the differences/discrepancies hed raised. Its not typical that somebody with an 
intent to defraud will stay in contact, after claiming a victims money, to try and address any 
issues with whats been provided. More typically a fraudster wont be contactable after 
theyve got the money. Here, at least for a time, Mr N was still communicating with the seller 
and the seller did show some intent to try and resolve things. So having thought carefully 
about the above, Im not satisfied the evidence Ive seen shows it is more likely than not that 
they intended to defraud Mr N. 
In this case, I also have to keep in mind that Mr N made a payment for collectable cards, 
which the seller sent to Mr N. Whilst I recognise Mr N says the seller didnt provide the tracking number for the goods as they said they would, Im mindful Mr N has confirmed he 
did receive the goods he paid for, albeit he is dissatisfied with the quality of the cards he 
received. 
 
Further, I also note that Mr N says the seller told him that if he wasnt happy with the goods 
once received, that on returning the cards, a refund would be given. Mr N has told us that no 
return address was provided by the seller and that he was then ignored by the seller. Id like 
to assure Mr N that I can appreciate his frustrations and unhappiness that he stopped 
receiving replies to his messages. But I have to keep in mind that there are many reasons 
why two parties might stop communicating with each other, such as a breakdown in the 
relationship. So, this aspect, in and of itself doesnt automatically lead me to make the 
finding that there is enough evidence of a scam in this particular case.
I recognise Mr N isnt happy with the quality of the collectable cards received and that he 
believes the goods received arent genuine/authentic. However, based on the evidence 
presented to me, I cant safely conclude that it is more likely than not that the seller set out 
with the intention to defraud Mr N from the outset. 
Our Investigator also got in touch with the bank Mr N sent his payment to. While I am 
unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with their bank, 
the receiving bank has said that there were no other concerns raised prior to Mr N making 
the payment. 
It follows that I cant safely say the evidence presented to me demonstrates that it is more 
likely than not that Mr N is a victim of fraud. The information supporting that proposition is 
simply not strong enough for me to uphold the complaint. Im also satisfied that there wasnt 
anything else Lloyds could have done to either prevent the loss or recover the funds. I say 
this because I don't think the payment was so remarkable or out of character to such an 
extent whereby, I would expect the bank to have concerns about it and intervene.
For completeness, I can see Mr N in his response to our Investigators view highlighted the 
distress caused by this matter and, in particular about compensation. Id like to assure Mr N 
that in reaching my conclusions I have taken everything he has told us about his personal 
circumstances into account. In turn I dont underestimate the impact this matter has had on 
him, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Lloyds to 
refund him the money hes lost. It follows that I also dont make any recommendation for 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman