DRN-4409749
Complaint
Miss O complains that CA Auto Finance UK LTD (at the time trading as FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd) unfairly entered into a hire-purchase agreement with her. Shes said the 
agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Miss O has made a separate complaint regarding commission. But were looking at that 
complaint separately and this decision is only looking at FCA Automotives decision to lend 
to Miss O. 
Background
In June 2019, FCA Automotive provided Miss O with finance for a used car. The cash price 
of the vehicle was £12,219.09. Miss O didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 49-month hire-
purchase agreement with FCA Automotive for the entire £12,219.09. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £5,119.55 (made up of interest of £4,720.55 
and an option to purchase fee of £399) So the total amount to be repaid of £17,338.64 was 
due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £265.68 followed by an optional final monthly 
payment of £4,586,00. 
Miss Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that FCA 
Automotive had done anything wrong or treated Miss O unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Miss Os complaint should be upheld. Miss O disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Os complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Os complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
FCA Automotive needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that FCA Automotive needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Miss O could make her payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to her. And if the checks FCA Automotive carried out werent sufficient, I 
then need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
FCA Automotive says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on Miss O. During this assessment, Miss O provided details of her 
monthly income. FCA Automotive says it also carried out credit searches on Miss O which 
showed no significant adverse difficulties with credit in the form of defaults or County Court 
Judgments (CCJ). Miss O did previously have a missed payment on a mail order account, 
but it had been brought up to date by the time of borrowing. FCA Automotive also says       
Miss O had a previous well maintained agreement with it too. 
And as I understand it when the amount Miss O already owed plus a reasonable amount for 
Miss Os living expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income 
the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss O says that these 
payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss O and FCA Automotive have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks FCA Automotive carried out 
did go far enough. In my view, given the monthly payments were taking up a reasonable 
proportion of Miss Os income, Im satisfied that FCA Automotive needed to take further 
steps to get an appreciate of Miss Os actual living costs. 
As FCA Automotive didnt carry out sufficient checks, I have gone on to decide what I think 
FCA Automotive is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Miss O. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected FCA Automotive to have had 
a reasonable understanding about Miss Os regular living expenses as well as her income 
and existing credit commitments (which it already had). 
Ive considered the information Miss O has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Miss Os committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from her household income, she did have the 
funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement.
Miss O is unhappy her partners income appears to have been taken into account. But they 
appear to have been operating joint finances. Both incomes were going into the account 
statements have been provided for and the bills were being paid from it to. So, in my view, it 
is unlikely  and less likely than not  that FCA Automotive would have declined to lend if it 
had seen this information.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information makes it appear, at 
least, as though Miss O had sufficient funds in order for the monthly payments to this 
agreement to be made in a sustainable manner. I accept that its possible Miss Os actual 
circumstances may not be fully reflected in the information provided. For example, I know 
that Miss O says that she went on to miss payments on her credit card. But FCA Automotive 
wont have known that this would happen. All Id expect it to do is fill in the gaps in its 
assessment, which I have highlighted above.
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that FCA Automotives 
checks before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Miss O did go far enough, Ive 
not been persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would have prevented FCA 
Automotive from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. This means Ive not been persuaded that FCA Automotive acted unfairly towards Miss O 
when it lent to her and Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss O. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman