DRN-3824909
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Barclays Bank Plc, Merchant 
Services has made an error in its billing. F says that there was a sudden and unexplained 
increase in the proportion of its transactions recorded as commercial Mastercard payments 
and that all of these have been treated as international payments. This resulted in Fs 
merchant services bill almost doubling.
F is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Mr R. 
What happened
F has used Barclays merchant services since 2016. 
In September 2021, Fs monthly invoice was £332 and only five out of 192 transactions were 
shown as from a commercial Mastercard. 
In October 2021, Fs bill was £607 and 65 of the total 212 transactions were commercial 
Mastercard payments. 
In November and December 2021, almost half of the total transactions were recorded as by 
commercial Mastercard (99 and 80 respectively). In each of these months, Barclays invoice 
included the same number of international activity fees as commercial Mastercard 
transactions. 
Mr R complained that F was being overcharged. He said:
There were too many commercial Mastercard payments recorded.
Not all the commercial Mastercard payments should be international transactions, 
which attract an extra charge. 
Charging two sets of fees for those transactions was unfair. 
Barclays didnt uphold Fs complaint, as they said they hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr R 
asked us to look into the matter. Barclays told us:
They only charged F in accordance with the data submitted to them and there 
couldnt be an error. 
The only change that had come in was the introduction of the international 
transaction fee as a result of Brexit. Theyd introduced the fee as their costs were 
higher on those transactions. 
They couldnt find Fs merchant agreement. 
They couldnt provide any evidence that F had been notified of the international 
transaction fee, but they would have notified F and given two months notice of its 
introduction in line with their terms and conditions. 
Fs bill had probably gone up because it was taking more European Economic Area 
card payments than in the past. 
In June 2022, F changed merchant services provider. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She asked the bank for 
transaction-level data to prove the charges were correct. We asked for this information on 16 
August 2022, 25 August 2022, 12 September 2022, 20 September 2022 and 11 October 
2022. But Barclays hasnt provided this information. In the absence of this data, our 
investigator felt that she couldnt confirm that the international transaction fees were correct. 
So she recommended that Barclays refund them. 
Barclays didnt respond to our investigators findings or to our email inviting them to submit 
any further points or information for the ombudsman to consider. So the case was passed to 
me to decide. 
I asked Mr R for some more information regarding Fs charges from its new merchant 
services provider, which he has given me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of the requested information from Barclays, I have 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator. So Im going to ask Barclays to refund 
some of their charges. Ill explain why. 
Notification of new charges
Barclays have provided a copy of the Terms and Conditions that they say applied to Fs 
account at the time. These show that they are permitted to vary their charges, but that, 
unless exceptional circumstances apply, they must give two months notice of any changes 
and they must inform their customers in writing. 
Barclays have said that they gave F the required notice and notification of the new post-
Brexit international charge (although they havent told me when this occurred). They havent 
provided any evidence of this. 
Mr R says he received no notifications of new international fees and was unaware of any 
changes until his invoices arrived. 
I have taken into account that Barclays tells me that they kept their customers informed of 
the likely changes resulting from Brexit throughout the Brexit process. To demonstrate this, 
they have provided two examples of general updates provided. However, neither mentions 
increased international transaction charges, so I dont think this indicates that they notified F 
about the international charge or even makes it more likely that they did. Whilst I accept that banks arent always able to provide copies of individually addressed 
letters, where bulk mailings have taken place, I would expect Barclays to be able to provide 
me with some evidence from its records to show that F was notified. In the absence of this, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude that F was informed of the new charge. It follows that Im not 
satisfied that it was fair to charge F these fees. 
Classification of transactions
I also havent received any evidence from Barclays to show that the transactions were 
correctly classified as commercial Mastercard payments. I think its more likely than not that 
they were correctly identified nonetheless, as I note that the statements from Fs new 
merchant services provider, from the equivalent time period the following year, also show a 
high volume of commercial Mastercard payments. 
However, the issue of whether they are commercial Mastercard payments is only half the 
question. It appears that, from October 2021, every commercial Mastercard transaction 
processed by Barclays for F was also classified as an international transaction. I say this 
because the statements show that number of commercial Mastercard transactions and the 
turnover through these transactions was identical to the number and turnover from 
international transactions. This resulted in F being charged two fees of 1.95% for each 
transaction. 
F has told us that the number of international transactions is incorrect and that it doesnt 
believe that all the commercial Mastercard payments were international. 
Despite repeated requests, Barclays havent provided any individual transaction or card 
product data to show that the transactions were properly categorised as international 
transactions. 
In the absence of information from Barclays, I have looked at the invoices from the new 
merchant acquirer to see if they could shed any light on the matter. These invoices dont 
show any international transactions. There are a number of possible explanations for this. 
This may be because F is no longer undertaking international transactions, although it hasnt 
told us about any changes in its business and it is still taking payments by commercial 
Mastercard. It may also be because there werent any transactions that the new merchant 
services provider categorises as international, or it may be that the new provider doesnt 
charge a fee for international transactions, so they dont need to itemise them. 
I acknowledge that different merchant providers have different charging structures and 
negotiate different contracts with their customers, depending on their appetite for different 
types of business, so just because one provider doesnt charge for something doesnt mean 
that it was unfair for another to do so. However, in the absence of evidence from Barclays to 
support its position, I have no reason to doubt the account provided by F that, in the period 
in question, the international payments figure for which it has been invoiced is wrong.
Summary
The rules that govern our service are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook 
in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section. DISP 3.5.9 (3) gives me the power to reach a 
decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to 
provide the information requested. This is what I have done in this case. 
Barclays have shown neither that the transactions were international nor that they had fairly 
notified F of the charges for international transactions. In these circumstances, I dont 
consider that I can say the international charges were fair. Putting things right
Since I have concluded that Barclays havent acted fairly, I need to put F back in the position 
it would have been in had Barclays not made an error. In the absence of transaction data, I 
cant know for sure whether all the international charges were incorrect. However, since 
Barclays havent shown that they informed F about the international charge, I think it is fair 
for Barclays to refund to F all the international charges levied from October 2021 until the 
account was closed. 
Barclays should also calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the amount it charged F for 
international transactions from the date of each charge until the date of settlement. This 
amount should be added to the amount paid to F as compensation for being deprived of the 
funds charged.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay 
compensation to F as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman