DRN-2951958
The complaint
Mrs O complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited caused unnecessary confusion when 
processing an invoice for a claim made under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs O contacted AXA about the late payment of an invoice. AXA advised Mrs O that 
the invoice hadnt been received until 3 December 2019, but that wasnt correct. The 
invoice had been received the year before. It also advised her that her no claims 
discount (NCD) for the 2020 renewal would be impacted because the invoice had 
been received and paid in the 2019 policy year. 
Mrs O then advised AXA that shed checked with the hospital and the invoice had 
been sent to it in 2018. AXA later accepted this, and told Mrs O that the invoice 
wouldnt impact her NCD at the following renewal.
However, at the following renewal, AXA did reduce Mrs Os NCD because of the 
invoice. After Mrs O complained about this, AXA reinstated the NCD.
It therefore seems that AXAs error was two-fold. It failed to process the invoice when 
this was received, which led to confusion on Mrs Os part. It also meant she had to 
contact the hospital as AXA had mistakenly told her that it had only received the 
invoice in December 2019. After that error was resolved and Mrs O had been told her 
NCD wouldnt be impacted, AXA then made a further error by failing to action this for 
the following renewal. That then led to further confusion on Mrs Os part, and she had 
to again contact AXA about the matter.
Taking into account AXAs errors and the resulting confusion caused to Mrs O, I 
agree with our investigator that reasonable compensation would be £100.
Mrs O is also unhappy that AXA logged her compensation payment on its member 
portal as a claim. However, AXA has confirmed that all payments made are 
described on the portal as a claim. Though its aware the payment relates to 
compensation, not a claim made under the policy. Its not for this service to interfere 
in a financial business processes, and Im satisfied here that Mrs O hasnt been 
negatively impacted by the description of the payment on the member portal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay 
Mrs O £100 compensation (less any amount already paid in this respect).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman