DRN-1463116
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy at the outstanding balance on their secured loan account with 
Together Personal Finance Limited.
To resolve the complaint, they would like Together to consider whether the lending should 
have been agreed in 2005. They also want Together to revise the outstanding balance on 
the account to reflect the enormous repayments that have already been made.
What happened
On 11 May 2005 Mr and Mrs C took out a second charge secured loan with a business 
which is now known as Together (I will refer to Together throughout this decision). They 
borrowed a total of £21,000 over a term of 15 years.
The account terms and conditions provide that arrears fees can be applied to the account 
and that Together is entitled to recover legal fees. The terms and conditions also say that 
interest will be applied on these fees and charges 28 days after theyve been added to the 
account.
Im sorry to note that Mr and Mrs C fell into arrears on their account, as a result of which 
Together obtained a suspended possession order. This has added arrears fees and legal 
fees to the account, which have in turn attracted interest. 
The loan has now reached the end of its term, and Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that they still 
owe over £20,000 to Together.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Together about the outstanding balance. Together didnt uphold 
the complaint and so Mr and Mrs C contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. As well as 
complaining about fees and charges, Mr and Mrs C also said that they thought the loan had 
been mis-sold and didnt think Together should ever have agreed to lend them any money in 
2005.
An investigator noted that Together hadnt agreed to us looking at any charges that had 
been applied more than six years before the complaint was first raised on 28 February 2019. 
The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs C that we could only consider fees and charges 
applied after 28 February 2013. The investigator also noted that the complaint about the sale 
of the loan in 2005 had not been previously raised with Together. The investigator explained 
that Mr and Mrs C would need to raise this first with Together.   Mr and Mrs C accepted what 
the investigator said about both these issues. 
After considering the complaint, the investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied the fees and charges added to the account reflected the position in relation to 
arrears, legal proceedings and broken payment arrangements.
Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They say theyve paid over 
£40,000 towards this loan, yet still owe as much as they originally borrowed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This loan only came within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service after 6 April 
2007. This means that, although the loan was taken out in May 2005, we cant consider 
anything that happened in relation to this loan before 6 April 2007. Ive noted that, following 
Togethers refusal to consent to us looking at historic fees and charges, Mr and Mrs C have 
accepted that we can only look at those fees and charges which were applied in the six 
years before the complaint was first raised with Together, which was 28 February 2019.
Ive looked at the account statements, and from these Im satisfied that fees and charges 
have been fairly applied since 28 February 2013, to reflect missed payments, the cost of 
legal action and broken payment arrangements. In line with the terms and conditions, those 
fees also accrue interest. As a result, the balance has increased and the payments made by 
Mr and Mrs C have been insufficient to clear the full amount due before the end of the term 
of the loan in May 2020. After reviewing what has happened, I dont think Together has done 
anything wrong in its administration of the account.
I fully acknowledge that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that they owe broadly the same amount 
as they originally borrowed, due to unpaid instalments, fees, charges and interest. But I dont 
have any power to tell Together to reduce these where theyve been added fairly and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. Im satisfied the account balance is an accurate 
reflection of the conduct of the account.
The loan term has come to an end and the balance is now due in full. I note Mr and Mrs Cs 
house has been on the market for a while, and, of course, in the last few months the global 
pandemic has impacted on everyones lives. Together is aware that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) has imposed a moratorium on lenders taking any recovery action until at 
least 31 October 2020, and it is possible that deadline may be extended. 
This gives Mr and Mrs C some time, either to sell their property and pay off the loan or to 
raise finance elsewhere to pay off the outstanding balance. They are also free to try to 
negotiate a reduced settlement with Together, if they are able to provide evidence of a 
source of funds available to them to do so. There is, of course, no obligation on Together to 
accept any reduced amount, but I would expect Together to be sympathetic to Mr and 
Mrs Cs circumstances and to consider any proposals, provided those proposals are 
supported by evidence of available funds.
In the event that the FCA does not extend the moratorium on possession action, I would 
expect Together to think about what is best in this situation. The outstanding debt is less 
than 10% of the value of the property, so the security isnt at risk. I am, of course, conscious 
that Together is entitled to be paid in full now the loan term has ended. But balanced against 
this is considering whether repossession is the only option in all the circumstances. 
Repossession should always be a last resort.
I would urge Mr and Mrs C to maintain an open dialogue with Together about their 
circumstances. They might find it helpful to discuss their situation with one of the free debt 
advice agencies such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide contact 
details for those agencies, if Mr and Mrs C would like us to.
In conclusion, although I have every sympathy for Mr and Mrs C, Im unable to find that 
Together has done anything wrong in relation to the fees and charges added to the account 
since 28 February 2013.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman