DRN-3117983
The complaint
Mrs G complains NewDay Ltd wrongly declined a claim she brought under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
Mrs G met with a company Ill call R on 19 March 2017, with a view to getting out of her 
timeshare with a holiday club I will call C, and claiming compensation for the mis-sale of 
the same timeshare.
Mrs G signed a contract at the meeting, agreeing to pay a total of £8,154 for Rs services. 
She made two payments on her NewDay credit card, one of £1,000 to a company Ill call 
MRLL on 20 March 2017, and one of £7,154 on 19 April 2017 to a company Ill call MRL. 
The contract said R would release (relinquish) Mrs G from her timeshare within 12 months. 
If they didnt do this, she was entitled to a full refund.
Mrs G says R essentially then did nothing, before going into liquidation in June 2018. In the 
meantime, C had been demanding payments for maintenance fees for the timeshare. She 
raised a section 75 claim with NewDay in October 2018, requesting a full refund of the 
amounts shed paid. Unfortunately, the claim letter was sent to the wrong bank, who later 
forwarded it on to NewDay to consider. Mrs G became unhappy about how long it was taking 
for NewDay to make a decision and complained in either March or April 2019.
NewDay responded to the claim and the complaint in May 2019, rejecting the majority of it 
on the basis that there was not a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place 
which would allow Mrs G to hold them liable under section 75 of the CCA. NewDay did 
however accept that there had been delays in looking into the section 75 claim and offered 
to credit her account with £20.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs G referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent assessment. The most recent assessment by one of our investigators agreed 
that there had not been a valid DCS agreement in place and NewDay were right to have 
declined the claim and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her case, which was then passed 
to me to decide. I carried out some further research which led me to conclude there was a 
valid DCS agreement in place, due to MRLL and R being associates at the time of the 
payment to MRLL. I also thought it likely that R had breached its contract with Mrs G, and 
that shed have been entitled to a full refund. I wrote to NewDay on 1 December 2021 to 
explain my findings and I invited them to change their position on the case. NewDay hasnt 
replied to me, so Ive proceeded to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA provides a degree of protection to consumers who pay for goods or 
services using a credit card. So long as certain technical criteria are met, it allows a 
consumer to claim against their credit card provider for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
NewDay argue that the technical criteria to make a section 75 claim have not been met in 
Mrs Gs case. This is because she made her credit card payments to MRL and MRLL, but 
she had entered into a contract with R. NewDay says that this means the necessary DCS 
agreement is not in place for Mrs G to make a claim.
The DCS agreement is one of the criteria which needs to be in place for a section 75 claim 
to be made. What it means in practice is that for a person to be able to successfully bring a 
section 75 claim against their credit card issuer, the credit card generally needs to have 
been used to pay the same company which they have a claim against for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation.
In Mrs Gs case, her credit card payments were not made to R, which was the supplier and 
the company she has a claim against for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. Her 
payments instead went to MRL and MRLL. So I can understand why NewDay, and our 
investigator, concluded there was not a valid DCS agreement in place.
There are however some exceptions to the general rule that the payment must be made to 
the supplier. One such exception occurs where the supplier is an associate of the company 
which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the time the payment is made. This 
doesnt mean being an associate in the everyday sense of being linked in some way or 
another; the relationship has to meet a specific definition which is set out in section 184 of 
the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need to 
be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being in business together at another company). A person would 
be in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be followed 
by the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting 
power at any general meeting of the company.
This is important because section 187 of the CCA has the effect of making companies which 
are associates interchangeable for the purpose of the DCS agreement. It wouldnt matter 
which company was the payee, so long as they were an associate of the supplier.
The association between R and MRLL
My research showed that a Mr K was a 50/50 shareholder of R until 1 December 2016, he 
was also majority shareholder of MRLL and a 50/50 shareholder of a company I will call 
RIG at the time Mrs G made her payment. A Mr W was the director of R until 20 April 2017. 
He was also a director and 50/50 shareholder of RIG at the point Mrs G used her credit card 
to pay MRLL. 
Mr K and Mr W were associates due to their ongoing joint control of RIG (via their 50/50 
shareholdings) and therefore any companies they controlled would be associates of one 
another. R was controlled by Mr W up until 20 April 2017, while MRLL was controlled by Mr 
K up to this date and beyond. This means R and MRLL were associates until Mr W left R on 
20 April 2017.
It follows that it doesnt matter in this case that Mrs G paid MRLL instead of R using her NewDay credit card. A valid DCS agreement exists which would allow her to bring a claim 
against NewDay under section 75 of the CCA. This would allow her to recover payments she 
has made via other means or to other companies, so long as they were payments made 
towards this contract or transaction.
However, just because theres a DCS agreement in place which would allow NewDay to be 
held liable to Mrs G under section 75 of the CCA, doesnt mean that shes entitled to 
redress. There still needs to have been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by R.
The breach of contract by R
At the time of my last communication with NewDay, I didnt have documentary evidence that 
Mrs G had not been released from her timeshare by R, but I was satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that they had not achieved this. Since then, Mrs G has sent evidence that, as of 
April 2018, she was still responsible for the timeshare with C, who were pursuing her for 
unpaid fees and clearly still considered her to be bound by her contract with them. 
The contract with R came with a money back guarantee. This was worded as follows:
[R] give a full money back guarantee that the relinquishment will be achieved within 12 
months of [19 March 2017].
I take this to mean that R made a contractual promise to refund everything Mrs G had paid 
towards the contract, if she was not released from her timeshare within 12 months of 19 
March 2017. As of April 2018, Mrs G had not been released from her timeshare. She has 
also not been provided with a refund. So I conclude there was a breach of contract by R, in 
failing to provide the full refund.
Mrs G can hold NewDay liable for this breach of contract under section 75 of the CCA, and 
ask them to compensate her for her losses as a result of the breach. In this case, Mrs Gs 
loss is the amount she paid towards the contract and which should have been refunded, this 
being £8,154. This is the amount I think it is fair and reasonable that NewDay should refund 
her, taking into account their responsibilities under section 75 of the CCA.
I note NewDay offered Mrs G £20 compensation for delays in handling the original 
section 75 claim. I think it should still pay this, if it hasnt already done so. While the amount 
is rather small, I note some of the delays in dealing with the claim were caused by Mrs Gs 
claim having been sent to the wrong bank initially. I also think Mrs G has been insulated from 
any distress or inconvenience caused by the delays, as she has been represented by a 
claims management company throughout. In view of this, I wont be asking NewDay to 
increase this compensation further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to take 
the following actions:
Pay Mrs G £8,154, this being a refund of the amount she paid on her NewDay credit 
card.
Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the above refund, calculated from the date Mrs 
Gs section 75 claim was declined, to the date she receives the refund.  
Pay Mrs G £20 compensation as it has already agreed to do. If it has already paid 
this compensation it doesnt need to do this again.* If NewDay Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman