DRN-3191760
The complaint
The estate of Ms C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed                    
the late Ms Cs account to accrue charges, when it was evident she was suffering from 
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr P has represented the executor of the estate throughout this complaint. However, for 
clarity, Ill only refer to the late Ms C or the estate throughout this decision.
In February 2020, Barclays wrote to the late Ms C and explained it would be charging 
interest instead of daily fees, if she used her overdraft from 22 March 2020. It also said it 
would be removing the emergency borrowing option. In April 2020, Ms C passed away.
Shortly after, the estate looked into the late Ms Cs accounts and raised a complaint to 
Barclays. They said that the late Ms Cs partner left around April 2019 and so he stopped 
making contributions of £350 per month. This caused the late Ms C financial difficulties 
which Barclays should have identified. They also say the late Ms C shouldnt have been 
granted a £500 emergency borrowing fund and instead Barclays should have increased her 
existing overdraft to £1,000. This would have meant she would have incurred lower charges.
Barclays looked into the late Ms Cs complaint in May 2020 but said it hadnt made an error. 
It said the charges had been applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. Unhappy with this response, the estate referred the complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint but didnt think Barclays did anything 
wrong. She said the account was mainly in credit and the late Ms C didnt regularly use the 
emergency borrowing fund. She said there didnt appear to be any signs of financial difficulty 
which should have prompted Barclays to treat the late Ms C differently. 
As the estate remain in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this decision, I havent considered whether the amount of fees Barclays decided to 
charge the late Ms C, over the years she held her account, were fair and reasonable. This is 
because this is a commercial decision and its down to Barclays to decide how much to 
charge for its services. This isnt something I can get involved with.
That said, Ive looked at whether Barclays was aware or ought to reasonably have been 
aware, that the late Ms C could be in financial difficulties through her use of her account. 
And if so, whether it was appropriate for Barclays to apply any interest, fees and charges. 
Ive looked at the notes on the account. Having done so, the late Ms C didnt tell Barclays 
she was suffering from financial difficulties. So Ive considered whether Barclays applied 
interest, fees and charges when it ought to have reasonably been aware the late Ms C was 
in financial difficulties. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements for the late Ms Cs account and Ive taken into 
consideration what the estate has told us about the late Ms Cs partner not making any 
further contributions from around April 2019. 
Having done so, I can see that on some occasions before April 2019, the late Ms C used her 
arranged overdraft. From June 2019 until around early March 2020, the late Ms C made 
frequent use of the overdraft and on a couple of occasions, she also made use of the 
emergency borrowing fund. But whilst the use of the overdraft increased, there were regular 
credits paid into the account. And having reviewed the income and expenditure going in and 
out of the account, there were a number of non-committed and non-contractual payments 
made each month. I appreciate this in itself doesnt mean that the late Ms C wasnt in 
financial difficulty. But what I need to consider here is whether Barclays ought to have known 
that the late Ms C was in financial difficulty. And I dont think that the late Ms Cs account 
usage clearly demonstrated that she was experiencing difficulty.
So having said this, and in the absence of Barclays being told anything about any financial 
difficulties by the late Ms C, I dont think Barclays unfairly charged the late Ms C any interest, 
fees and charges. This is because looking at the transactions made to and from the account, 
I dont think there wasnt anything which suggested Barclays should have been alerted to the 
fact that the late Ms C was suffering from financial difficulties. 
In light of this, I dont think Barclays needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im 
not upholding the late Ms Cs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the late Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman