DRN-1690145
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him 
alongside a credit card in 1998
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, Mr 
L disagreed with that view. So, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that this cover was sold during a face to face meeting in a Lloyds branch. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. To help me decide what happened, Ive 
looked at what Mr L told us about it. And Ive also considered some documentary evidence 
that is available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr L would have known PPI was optional and he 
didnt have to take it out. I can see in his PPI questionnaire that Mr L said he didnt know he 
had a policy and that Lloyds had made him take it out. Its not entirely clear to me how PPI 
could have been added without Mr Ls knowledge if he knew that Lloyds also made him take 
it out. 
Nevertheless, Ive been given a copy of Mr Ls application form. I can see that PPI was set 
out quite prominently on that document as an optional benefit. The form appears to have 
been completed by Mr L and I can see that the box to select PPI has been ticked. As the 
form clearly set out the optional nature of I think the person selling PPI to Mr L would have 
similarly made that clear. 
Ive also thought about whether PPI could have been added to Mr Ls account without his 
knowledge. However, Mr L would have received monthly credit card statements with the PPI 
showing as a separate transaction. So if the cover had been added without Mr Ls 
knowledge, I think hed have queried what these payments were for at the time. The 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest he did. So overall, I think Mr L probably knew about the 
PPI and that he didnt have to select the cover if he didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That puts extra responsibility on Lloyds because it then 
had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mr Ls needs. To help me decide whether this 
was a suitable policy, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive also thought about 
what Mr L told us about his personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI, 10% of Mr Ls credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month he was off sick from work or if he lost his job. Mr L 
was self-employed and he told us he wouldnt have got any sick pay if he couldnt work. He 
also said he would have had to sell his house to make repayments if he wasnt working. So I 
think the PPI would have offered benefits over and above those which Mr L already had in 
place. Crucially, with the PPI policy, Mr L wouldnt have had to sell his house to keep up with 
his repayments. 
As I said, Mr L was self-employed and so Ive checked whether this would have made it 
more difficult for him to make a claim on the cover. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr Ls claim would have been treated differently because of that self-employment. Mr L told 
us he was in good health when the policy was sold. So I dont think hed have been affected 
by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything else 
unusual about his employment circumstances that would have stopped him from being able 
to make a successful claim if he needed to. Overall, I think the PPI would have most likely 
been suitable for Mr Ls needs. 
Lloyds also had to give Mr L enough information about the cover so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading. I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr L everything it should have done 
about the cover. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful to him if he was out 
of work. So it follows that I dont think hed have changed his mind about the PPI even if 
Lloyds had given him more or better information about it. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr L, but for the reasons above, I cant uphold his complaint. I dont 
need to tell Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman