DRN-1793799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
What happened
In October 1997 Mr and Mrs L re-mortgaged with BOS. Their previous mortgage was 
redeemed and the PPI that had been in place on that mortgage was cancelled. Then in 
February 1998, some six months after taking out the new mortgage, Mr and Mrs L took out a 
new PPI policy associated with the mortgage taken out the previous October. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to BOS that the PPI was mis-sold but BOS didnt uphold their 
complaint. BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged on the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that the mortgage Mr and Mrs L 
took out didnt fall within the rules and guidance introduced about this. Therefore, no refund 
for excess commission and profit share was due.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with what BOS said so brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold and what BOS had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have complained about more than one PPI policy taken out with BOS. In this 
decision I am only considering if the PPI taken out in February 1998, related to their 
mortgage ending 2-6 was mis-sold. Other policies have been considered separately. 
Mr and Mrs L say the policy was mis-sold as they were pressured into taking it out and 
thought they had to have it in order to get the mortgage. They say if it had been clear they 
had a choice they would not have taken it out and they didnt need it. 
The records and information available in this case are a little limited. As the sale of the PPI 
took place around 22 years ago, that is not surprising. For this PPI policy BOS has the actual 
application form completed by Mr and Mrs L for the PPI in addition to its computer records.
The application was made following a mailing by BOS about PPI and Mr and Mrs L 
completed the application form that arrived in the post and signed it on 9 February 1998. It is 
unclear if they posted it back to BOS or took it into the local branch, but a receipt date stamp is on the form of 11 February 1998. There is also an internal note on BOS records indicating 
the PPI application form was received at the branch following a mailing. 
As Mr and Mrs L already had their mortgage and they responded to a mailing about the PPI 
policy, I think at the time they knew they had a choice to take it out. Also, I cannot see how 
any pressure could have been applied to them to take out the PPI. They already had their 
mortgage in place and were responding to a mailing. They chose to follow up on the mailing, 
complete the application and requested the PPI.
The PPI was sold at a totally different time to when Mr and Mrs L took out their mortgage 
and I am satisfied in the circumstances of the mailing and application they knew they had a 
choice. And I think they chose to take out the policy as they thought it would have been of 
benefit to them.
I cannot be sure exactly what information was provided to Mr and Mrs L when they were 
sent the mailing for the PPI. And in order to make an informed choice about taking out the 
policy they needed to be given full details about the policy, including its cost, benefit and any 
restrictions.
The monthly benefit and cost of the premium had to be filled in on the form. The section for 
this says to see the accompanying leaflet for the cost and benefit information. It seems 
Mr and Mrs L chose a £300 benefit, split jointly, at a monthly cost of £15.18. So, I think they 
should have been aware of what they were paying and what benefits they would get in the 
event of a claim.  
I dont know fully what information was contained in the leaflet that was sent with the 
application form about the terms and conditions that applied to the policy. I have seen the 
Certificate of Insurance and information that was sent out to Mr and Mrs L once the 
insurance was in place, but this was after they had agreed to take out the PPI. 
So, I need to consider if full information about any restrictions would have put Mr and Mrs L 
off taking out the policy at the time. Taking account of what I know of Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time they took out the PPI, I think they were both eligible for the policy. 
And I have seen nothing to show they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. So, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Mr and Mrs L were both employed and had some employment sickness benefits if they had 
been off work and they may have received a basic redundancy payment if made 
unemployed. But the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits or 
redundancy payment. And would have been useful to pay the mortgage at what could have 
been a difficult time if either of them was not working for any reason. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they had some savings, but I have no information about how much 
these may have been. But again, savings could have been needed for other living expenses 
and may have been essential if either Mr and Mrs L were not working. 
Its possible the information provided by BOS with the PPI application form at the time of the 
sale wasnt as full and clear as it couldve been. But I think Mr and Mrs L chose to take out 
the PPI at the time - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover - and I dont think better 
information about the PPI terms and conditions would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking out 
the cover as they were not affected by any restrictions.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by BOS. I think at the time Mr and Mrs L were 
aware they had a choice whether to take it out and they thought it would be useful.Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by BOS. However, the type of mortgage Mr and Mrs L 
took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Bank of Scotland 
Plc to Mr and Mrs L and Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman