DRN-1466679
The complaint
Mr. P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
(Audi) overestimated the future value of a cars balloon payment. He hasnt specified what 
redress he would like.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat them here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reason for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
The details of the final balloon payment on the Hire Purchase Agreement Mr. P took 
out with Audi Finance are clearly stated. So, if Mr. P wasnt happy with the final 
payment, he could have queried it at the time he took out the agreement. Or chosen 
not to go ahead with the agreement.
The contract Mr. P signed gave him some protection from the value of the car being 
lower than the final balloon payment in that Mr. P didnt have to make the final 
payment  he had the option to return the car without making this payment.
Any number of factors could influence the final value of a car  for example the 
mileage covered including any excess miles on the contract, the condition of the car, 
the release of newer models, stock availability and the financial climate at the time of 
sale.
I have no evidence the agreement was mis sold to Mr. P. Although Mr. P has told us 
at the end of the contract, he was advised the future value of the car had been over 
estimated by approximately £4,000 that comment was made some years after he 
took out the contract. That isnt enough evidence for me to conclude the balloon 
payment specified at the point of sale was over estimated.
My final decision
For these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr. Ps frustration, I do not uphold his complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
