DRN-3491084
The complaint
Mr B complains about incorrect information given to him by Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) which led to him making the same payment twice. 
What happened
Mr B says he tried to book a car rental but the payment was held by Nationwide for security 
checks. Mr B says he received a text asking him to contact Nationwide, which he did, He 
says he verified his identity during the call and the agent told Mr B to carry out the 
transaction again. Mr B says he queried this but was assured by the agent that he would 
need to carry out the transaction again. Mr B says he did this and the transaction went 
through. Mr B says he checked his online banking and found that the payment had gone 
through twice. Mr B says he contacted the car rental company and they refunded the second 
payment after deducting cancellation fees. Mr B then complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide responded and explained the original transaction was restricted due to their 
fraud system placing a block on Mr Bs card. They said they sent Mr B a text and he 
responded to say the payment was genuine, but because the response couldnt be 
registered, Mr B then called Nationwide to unblock his card. Nationwide said the initial 
transaction was attempted and blocked so the agent explained that Mr B would need to 
submit it again for it to process successfully. 
Nationwide said, during the call, Mr B attempted the transaction again which was successful. 
Nationwide said, the car rental company then processed a further payment two days later, 
which resulted in the second debit. Nationwide explained the agent was correct to tell Mr B 
to attempt the transaction again as the initial payment hadnt been processed at that time. 
Nationwide said they cant see a reason why the car rental company processed a second 
payment after the transaction was accepted. Nationwide said they werent responsible for 
the second payment and this would need to be taken up with the car rental company as 
theyve processed this payment. Nationwide said they could see the car rental company had 
refunded Mr B. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and Nationwide on 16 May 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
     
Theres no dispute that Mr B attempted a transaction which was flagged by 
Nationwides security system. Mr B doesnt have any complaint about this payment 
being flagged for security checks  his complaint relates to inaccurate information he 
says he was given during his phone call with Nationwide to verify the payment. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr B makes to Nationwide following his original 
payment being blocked. Mr B explains hes calling as he attempted a transaction and 
received a text message asking if the payment was genuine. He says he responded 
by text to confirm its genuine but received a message back to say his response 
wasnt recognised, so hes calling to find out if the payment has gone through. The 
agent checks to see if Mr Bs text response had been received and he confirms it 
was received and Mr Bs card is now active. The agent explains their systems show 
the car rental company tried to take the payment of £195.17 at 11.16pm but as the 
block was still in place, their attempt wasnt successful. The agent explains Mr Bs 
text response was received at 11.18pm which lifted the block so, in terms of the 
payment, you will need to make it again. Mr B is clearly concerned about a second 
payment going through and the agent confirms the first payment definitely hasnt 
gone through. Mr B then carries out the same transaction, this time for £206.01, and 
the agent confirms this transaction has gone through. 
 
Nationwide have provided a copy of the electronic payment data for Mr Bs account 
and this shows an attempted transaction of £195.17 at 11.16pm on 4 July. The 
information shows this transaction didnt go through and contains a specific code. 
Nationwide have provided a copy of their transactional codes guide which shows the 
specific code applied to this transaction leads to a customers card being blocked. A 
payment then goes through for £206.01 at 11.34pm  which is during Mr Bs call to 
Nationwide. A payment for £195.17 then goes through two days later. Mr Bs 
statement shows this payment was then refunded by the car rental company a few 
days later.       
From the information Ive seen, I agree the original transaction hadnt gone through 
at the point Mr B called, but this appears to be down to Mr Bs card being blocked  
and not down to the transaction being declined. The transactional codes guide refers 
to a separate code which is applied when transactions are declined and I cant see 
that code appears in the electronic payment data provided by Nationwide. Once a 
transaction is declined, it generally brings that transaction to an end and requires a 
customer to make another payment. Ive looked on Nationwides website and, under 
their Fraud and Security page, it says, if Nationwide identify a suspicious 
transaction, theyll block the card and send a text to the customer. It then says, If 
your transaction was declined, youll need to make the transaction again. As 
mentioned above, the information provided by Nationwide doesnt show the first 
attempted transaction was declined. 
Nationwide say the original transaction was blocked by their fraud team and they 
dont resend payments so they believe the car rental company pushed this payment 
through again. Mr B says the car rental company didnt re-submit a request for the 
funds and both were approved by Nationwide as the original transaction wasnt 
declined. Its not clear which one out of these two events occurred but, for the 
purposes of deciding whether there has been an error, I dont think that matters. 
I say this because, during the call, the agent tells Mr B the car rental company has 
attempted to take payment but couldnt because Mr Bs card was blocked. Thats 
correct, but I believe the situation that has occurred here has arisen due to 
Nationwide not declining the original transaction. 
While, strictly, what the agent said about the payment not going through at that time, 
was correct, the key factor for me here is that the agents solution to this was for Mr B 
to resend the payment without taking any further action to ensure the original 
payment couldnt later be released to the car rental company. 
The agent confirms Mr Bs second attempt had been successful, but it appears the 
original payment was in some way left available to be received by the car rental 
company. Given that the original payment hadnt been declined, I think the agent 
shouldve explained to Mr B that he could either wait to see whether the payment 
now goes through following his card being unblocked or make another payment now 
to ensure it goes through  which is what Mr B did  with the agent then taking any 
action on the system to ensure there was no possibility of the original payment going 
through. It might well be the case that Nationwides processes dont involve declining a 
transaction in such circumstances or it might well be the case that the agent wasnt 
able to take any action on the system to prevent the £195.17 being sent. If that is the 
case, then I still believe the information given by the agent to Mr B fell short of 
allowing him to make an informed decision. The agent shouldve then explained to Mr 
B that there was a possibility the original payment could be processed and he could 
wait to see if it goes through. But, in this case, the agent explains the payment hasnt 
gone through and Mr B will need to make it again.   Mr B clearly explains hes 
concerned about the payment going through twice, and the agent then reassures Mr 
B about making a second payment. Given that Mr B was clearly concerned about 
making a second payment, I think the information given by the agent didnt go far 
enough and explain there might be a possibility the first attempted transaction might 
go through. That did happen, so I dont think Mr B was given enough information to 
consider his options.   
Mr B says he had to pay cancellation fees. Mr B says his original booking was for 
£206.01 but he was then refunded £195.17 so the shortfall represents cancellation 
and administrative fees which were retained by the car rental company. I note Mr Bs 
point, but I cant see he has been charged any additional fees. The original payment 
of £195.17 didnt go through, so Mr B then paid £206.01 while on the phone to 
Nationwide. Its not clear why this sum was higher than Mr Bs first attempted 
payment, but the £195.17 which didnt originally go through is then sent. This sum is 
refunded by the car rental company. Mr B had already paid the car rental company 
so the £195.17 was taken in error, and this exact sum was refunded. So, I cant say 
Mr B has incurred any cancellation fees arising out of Nationwides error.   
I agree there has been trouble and inconvenience to Mr B in having to contact the car 
rental company to seek a refund. And, the sum of £195.17 was taken from Mr Bs 
account unexpectedly which meant it wasnt available to him through no fault of his 
own. I think the impact of this has been limited though, as the funds were taken on 6 
July and refunded five days later. That said, I can see Mr B was anxious about the 
return of the funds so I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay Mr B £50 
compensation.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mr B or Nationwide, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Nationwide have responded to say they agree with the 
decision. Mr B has responded to say he agrees with the reasoning but feels an award of 
£100 would be reasonable as thats the minimum our service can award. 
Given that both parties have responded and agree with the reasoning behind my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I acknowledge Mr Bs request for £100 but I think £50 fairly reflects the impact on him. There 
has been an error by Nationwide but it was a one-off incident which caused minimal impact as the situation was resolved quickly with the car rental company refunding Mr B. I havent 
seen any evidence of any wider consequences beyond the inconvenience in having to 
contact the car rental company and Mr B being, understandably, anxious about the return of 
the funds. While I acknowledge this having an impact, the error was put right quickly. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Nationwide have made an error in not taking steps to ensure the 
original payment wouldnt go through at a later date and giving Mr B incorrect information 
about the payment. This has led to trouble and inconvenience for Mr B in having to contact 
the car rental company to seek a refund. So, Nationwide should pay Mr B £50 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society must pay £50 
compensation to Mr B.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman