DRN-3068302
The complaint
Mr W and Ms P complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by Akira Financial Limited.
  
What happened
Mr W was an existing commercial customer of Akiras. He was the director of two 
companies, both of which had entered into loan agreements with Akira  and for which he 
had provided personal guarantees.
In early 2016, Mr W approached Akira for assistance in arranging a personal mortgage for 
him and Ms P to facilitate the purchase of a property. Mr W had been trying to arrange a 
mortgage elsewhere, but this proved unsuccessful  with a likely cause being that hed been 
subject to bankruptcy in the recent past. So he turned to Akira, and it offered to lend him and 
Ms P the money they were looking for with a view to them obtaining a mainstream mortgage 
in the near future.
Under the terms of the loan agreement entered into in June 2016, Mr W and Ms P borrowed 
£320,000 at a fixed interest rate of 6.5%. Mr W and Ms P were to repay the loan by way of 
24 monthly payments of £7,500, with a final payment of £181,600 payable at the end of the 
two-year  so the total amount payable would be £361,600. The loan was secured by a first 
legal charge over the purchase property. 
Mr W and Ms P paid the first few monthly payments as they fell due. But the mortgage fell 
into arrears in early 2017. With arrears accruing over the months that followed, Akira 
instructed solicitors to take steps to recover the debt in April and possession proceedings 
were initiated in August. A court hearing was scheduled for October, but proceedings were 
stayed when a payment arrangement was agreed. Under the agreement, Mr W and Ms P 
were to maintain payments of £1,350 for 24 months and repay the capital balance of 
£324,133.51 by the end of the term. 
When payments under the arrangement ceased in late 2018, proceedings were restored. By 
this time, Mr W and Ms P had put their property on the market. An adjournment to the 
proceedings was agreed in light of an impending sale, which completed in February 2019. 
The property was sold for just under £30,000 less than the price Mr W and Ms P paid, and 
they moved into rented accommodation.
Mr W and Ms P subsequently complained to Akira about how the mortgage had been 
arranged and administered. In summary, they said:
Akira didnt have the requisite licence or regulatory permissions to offer such a 
mortgage in the first place.
The mortgage proved unaffordable for them, but Akira rejected several repayment 
proposals  including by way of remortgage elsewhere  and proceeded with legal 
action unfairly. This had kept them trapped in the agreement, costing them more in 
interest and adding immense pressure to their situation  ultimately meaning they 
had to accept an unfavourable offer to sell the property.
Akira delayed the provision of a redemption statement and the figure ultimately 
provided was overstated. The amount that Akira required them to pay in order to 
redeem the loan included around £7,700 in respect of a commercial debt  and which 
was unfair given that Ms P had no liability for that.
Along with the commercial debt, the high interest rate and additional charges 
(including legal fees) meant that theyd ended up paying Akira in excess of £386,000 
for the £320,000 theyd borrowed. 
Akira didnt uphold the complaint, although it did offer a payment of £1,000 as a goodwill 
gesture. Responding to the above points, it said:
It didnt believe it had acted outside of its regulatory permissions, as it was registered 
with the industry regulator and had certain interim permissions during the relevant 
period.
Its recovery action had been justified in the circumstances, with payments not 
forthcoming over a prolonged period and no firm offer of an alternative mortgage in 
place. A payment arrangement had also been agreed but not maintained. Thered 
been no pressure on Mr W and Ms P to sell and by the time legal action had 
recommenced in 2018, a sale price had already been agreed.
It hadnt delayed the provision of the redemption figure, which had been requested in 
December 2018 and provided in early January 2019.
The interest rate applied to the loan was competitive and reasonable, given Mr W 
and Ms Ps circumstances. No late payment penalties or charges were applied to the 
account. And it was entitled to request a contribution to the arrears on Mr Ws 
business debts, due to an all monies clause in the legal charge that Mr W and Ms P 
had provided as security for the mortgage.
With no resolution, Mr W and Ms P referred their complaint to us and it was reviewed by one 
of our investigators. On the whole, he thought the mortgage had been appropriate for Mr W 
and Ms P given their circumstances and didnt think Akira had forced them into selling the 
property. But he thought it had been unfair to use the agreement as a means by which to 
recoup some of Mr Ws business debts, which had caused Ms P some distress. So for this, 
he thought Akira should honour its offer of £1,000 by way of compensation. 
Akira accepted our investigators view but Mr W and Ms P didnt. They maintained that Akira 
had acted unfairly to their significant financial loss. So they asked that an ombudsman 
review their complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in May this year setting out why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld and giving both parties the opportunity to respond with any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider before I reached a final decision.I found that the loan in question was a regulated mortgage contract as defined by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And I couldnt see that Akira had 
the appropriate permissions from the FCA to advise on or enter into such an agreement. I 
didnt think this alone was grounds to uphold the complaint, and went on to review the 
transaction in more detail. And having done so, I found that Mr W and Ms P had experienced 
some difficulty in making the payments due under the mortgage, both the monthly 
instalments and the amount required to redeem it  which I thought stemmed from the 
mortgage being inappropriate and unaffordable from the outset. I thought Akira had made an 
error in entering into the agreement because, in summary:
There were shortcomings in how Akira had assessed the affordability of the 
mortgage for Mr W and Ms P, both in terms of the monthly payments and its 
settlement. In being a regulated mortgage contract, there were a number of 
regulatory requirements on lenders in this regard under the Mortgage Conduct of 
Business rules that applied. And beyond these, it was hard to see how a firm could 
be said to have treated its customer fairly if it bound them to a contractual obligation 
that they were unable to meet. But Akira had only conducted limited checks.
Akiras checks had been based on the performance of Mr Ws business rather than 
Mr W and Ms P as individuals. It said that Mr Ws business  which was a limited 
company of which he was one of two directors  had a good track record for 
servicing its debts and that discussions with the companys finance director, 
supported by copies of management information, showed healthy profitability. There 
was no documentary evidence to support this, or any detail as to what the 
discussions had yielded. And even accepting that the performance of Mr Ws 
business bore some relevance, it was distinct from the Mr W and Ms Ps 
circumstances as individuals  the capacity in which they were borrowing the funds. I 
didnt think this was a sufficiently sound basis for determining the ongoing 
affordability of the mortgage  with no apparent consideration, for example, of Mr W 
and Ms Ps expenditure, including other debts or commitments, and how this might 
impact the funds theyd have available each month.
I couldnt see that Akira had given due consideration to the viability of Mr W and 
Ms P being able to settle the mortgage by the term end (or sooner). The nature of the 
agreement was dependent upon Mr W and Ms P successfully arranging a new 
mortgage elsewhere  something that had proved impossible in 2016, and for which 
there seemed to be no evidence to suggest things would be much different within the 
two-year loan term. Mr W had recently been discharged from bankruptcy when 
approaching Akira in 2016. While the impact of that would diminish over the years, I 
thought Akira ought reasonably to have considered whether that would have 
lessened to such an extent over the two-year term that a conventional mortgage 
would now be attainable. On this point, Akira had pointed to the excellent 
profitability of Mr Ws business at the time  but it wouldve known that lenders 
would take a number of other factors into account. And if I were to accept what it said 
about the intention for the loan to run only for a few months, thered be even less 
time for the impact of Mr Ws bankruptcy to reduce.
So I didnt think it was fair to have committed Mr W and Ms P to this agreement, with 
obligations that they werent likely to be able to fulfil  as then proved to be the case. I said 
that if things had gone as they should have, Mr W and Ms P wouldnt have entered into this 
mortgage (or anything similar elsewhere). Akira shouldnt have granted the loan in the first 
place, and instead it shouldve rejected the request for any or all of the reasons outlined.
I thought Mr W and Ms P had lost out as a result of Akiras error in granting the loan. I 
acknowledged theyd derived some initial benefit in obtaining the loan  it had allowed them to purchase a property, which they were clearly keen to do. However, after falling behind on 
payments, Mr W and Ms P had to sell the property to repay the loan  so they no longer had 
that asset. And theyd sold it for significantly less than theyd paid for it  sustaining a loss, 
rather than any benefit. On top of this loss was the cost of the borrowing: Akira confirmed 
that Mr W and Ms P repaid a total of £386,916.49 having borrowed £320,000.
To put things right, I said I intended to require Akira to reimburse Mr W and Ms P for the 
costs theyd incurred in relation to the loan itself, being £66,916.49. I thought this, as far as 
was practicable, would put the parties back in the position they wouldve been in had the 
loan not been entered into  with Mr W and Ms P having suffered no direct financial loss 
from it, and Akira deriving no financial benefit. I didnt think it would be fair to hold Akira 
solely responsible for the total losses that Mr W and Ms P had incurred from the transaction 
as a whole  as theyd wanted to purchase the property, accepted the terms of the loan 
agreement and ought also to have been able to consider the viability of the repayment plan. 
And to compensate Mr W and Ms P for the loss of the use of these funds, I thought Akira 
should add 8% simple interest (per year) to the compensation amount from the date the 
mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement.
The proposed redress included the reimbursement of the money Akira had applied to the 
debt owed by Mr W in his capacity as guarantor for his businesss borrowing. I didnt think 
Akira had taken reasonable steps to ensure that Ms Ps interests were properly safeguarded 
in respect of her liability for these business debts. In any case, in seeking to unwind the loan 
agreement, it followed that Akira wouldnt have had the option to claim these funds in the 
way it did if the loan hadnt been set up  so this amount ought fairly to be reimbursed.
I also thought the matter had caused Mr W and Ms P some considerable distress. The terms 
of the loan had swiftly proved unaffordable for them and Mr W had described the strain on 
their finances that this caused. The arrears had led to collection activity, including the 
involvement of solicitors and ultimately court hearings. This was an incredibly stressful 
process to have been put through and it all stemmed back to the inappropriateness of the 
arrangement. And in the end, Mr W and Ms P had to part with their home, just a couple of 
years after moving in. So I thought Akira should pay Mr W and Ms P £2,000 compensation.
I noted that Mr W and Ms P had raised a number of points regarding Akiras rejection of their 
proposals to settle the debt early. But as the proposed redress would put Mr W and Ms P in 
the position that theyd be in if the loan hadnt been granted, I didnt think any findings on this 
point would lead me to a different proposal. In any case, I didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence for me to say that Akira had unreasonably rejected any requests or proposals.
Mr W and Ms P accepted my provisional decision, but Akira didnt. It responded to say, in 
summary, that:
It didnt agree that the mortgage was unaffordable from the outset, and thought Mr W 
and Ms P had fallen behind on payments due to the decline of Mr Ws business. And 
it thought it was imperative that I look at the reasons behind the businesss failure. It 
also noted that Mr W had never claimed that the payments were unaffordable.
It had been 100% relevant to base affordability assessments on the performance of 
Mr Ws company as it was clear additional drawings from the business would be 
used to repay the mortgage, rather than any existing personal arrangements. Mr W 
had confirmed that the payments would be affordable for him and the issue would 
likely have been discussed with his solicitor. This, on top of the 18 months good 
payment history through its existing relationship with Mr Ws company and the 
management information it reviewed, led it to deem the payments affordable.It had given consideration to Mr W and Ms Ps ability to repay the mortgage, by 
talking to mortgage brokers and looking at availability in the market. While 
accepting that no form of lending is guaranteed, it thought it was possible to obtain a 
mortgage two years after discharge from bankruptcy. And Mr W was evidently 
confident of being able to do so, based on discussions with an independent broker.
The specific complaint points raised by Mr W and Ms P had no grounds and my 
provisional findings had confirmed as much  leaving only my own view as to 
whether the mortgage shouldve been granted. Id said that arguably it shouldnt 
have been, but Akira argued that it should  Mr W and Ms P had asked for it, 
negotiated and agreed the terms, and obtained independent legal advice about it. 
It accepted that despite independent legal advice being provided to both parties, it 
ought to have done more to explain the commitment regarding the companys debts. 
It apologised and agreed that it was fair to compensate for this. It therefore offered to 
reimburse £7,766.49, being the contribution made to the companys debts, along with 
8% simple interest per year. It also agreed to pay compensation of £2,000 as Id 
proposed for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My second provisional decision
I reconsidered the complaint in light of Akiras response, but didnt reach a different 
conclusion. I explained why in a second provisional decision, again giving both parties the 
chance to respond as Id set out my thoughts in more detail. 
In summary, I said that I still thought the complaint should be upheld because:
Were not bound to review a complaint simply on the terms that its communicated to 
us by either party  rather, we have an inquisitorial remit under which we can look at 
the broader circumstances of the matter at hand when assessing whether a 
complaint has been treated fairly. Here, Mr W and Ms P complained that Akira had 
mis-sold them a mortgage. My review of the complaint therefore considered the sale 
of the mortgage as a whole. In any event, I thought Mr W and Ms Ps primary 
concern  that Akira hadnt been authorised to sell the mortgage in the first place  
underpinned the shortcomings that Id found on Akiras part, in that it failed to perform 
a number of the obligations expected of a regulated mortgage lender.
Akira still hadnt evidenced the basis of its affordability assessment, save for some 
financial records from Mr Ws business dating back to 2015. It had set out in some 
detail the basis on which it had deemed the monthly payments to have been 
affordable, but Id been aware of much of this prior to issuing my first provisional 
decision. Notwithstanding the relevance of the performance of Mr Ws company, 
there was other relevant information that ought to have been obtained  but hadnt 
been. So I still didnt think Akira had conducted an appropriate affordability 
assessment, in line with the regulatory requirements to take full account of not only 
Mr W and Ms Ps income but also their expenditure. 
I took Akiras point that the difficulties that Mr Ws company experienced subsequent 
to the mortgage being taken out were likely to have significantly impacted the 
affordability of the monthly payments. While there was very limited information to 
determine this point, I accepted that the monthly payments may have been affordable 
at the outset  and that it might only have been changes to Mr W and Ms Ps 
circumstances which had meant they couldnt maintain the monthly instalments. But even accepting that, I still didnt think the mortgage ought to have been given due to 
the repayment strategy for the final capital payment. 
I gave particular consideration to the expectations of lenders under the Mortgage 
Conduct of Business rules on acceptable repayment strategies. And of particular 
relevance to Mr W and Ms Ps circumstances were MCOB 11.6.41R and MCOB 
11.6.53E. Mr W and Ms Ps mortgage was interest-only. Under MCOB 11.6.41R, a 
mortgage lender was only permitted to enter into an interest-only mortgage if it had 
evidence that the customer has in place a clearly understood and credible 
repayment strategy and, as far as reasonably assessable, that said strategy had the 
potential to repay the sums due under the mortgage. Lenders were expressly 
forbidden from accepting speculative repayment strategies. The accepted 
repayment strategy here was that Mr W and Ms P would refinance with a 
conventional mortgage either during the term or at its end. I still didnt think it had 
been reasonable for Akira to accept this in the circumstances. There was little 
certainty that another lender would grant Mr W and Ms P a mortgage on more typical 
terms, and Akira didnt have sufficient information on which to reasonably conclude 
that this would happen. 
In addition, while the mortgage in question wasnt a bridging loan, it was evidently 
intended to operate as if it were by both parties. It was always intended to be a 
temporary financing solution pending Mr W and Ms Ps transition to another financial 
arrangement (albeit one that was not known, specified or defined) for the property in 
which they would live. And it had some of the features of a bridging loan that 
distinguished it from a typical regulated mortgage contract (a high monthly payment, 
a relatively high interest rate, a short term and limited flexibility to amend or extend). 
So while not directly applicable, I thought the provisions as to the repayment strategy 
for bridging loans under MCOB 11.6.53E and 11.6.54 (1-2) were instructive too. 
These provisions said, in short and respectively, that for interest-only bridging loans:
oit is generally not acceptable for a lender to accept a future remortgage that 
relied upon the improvement of the borrowers credit status as a repayment 
strategy,
oit is generally not acceptable for a lender to accept as a repayment strategy 
the expectation that, by entering into the bridging loan, the customers credit 
status will be sufficiently improved to enable them to refinance to a longer-
term regulated mortgage contract without evidence of a guaranteed offer; and
othe lender should not accept a future remortgage with a mainstream lender as 
a repayment strategy unless it is reasonably satisfied that such a lender 
would be willing to provide the necessary agreement  and it may wish to 
consider requesting evidence of a guaranteed offer or agreement in principle 
that will be in place once the existing loan term has expired, or obtain the 
necessary income and expenditure information, in order to be so satisfied.
I didnt think that Akira could reasonably have been satisfied that Mr W and Ms P 
would be able to obtain a mainstream mortgage. There was no offer or agreement in 
principle. It hadnt done an appropriate income and expenditure to properly assess 
Mr W and Ms Ps circumstances when granting the mortgage in question, and so had 
no basis on which to assess whether this would satisfy the requirements of a 
mainstream mortgage lender. And there was also the question of Mr W and Ms Ps 
credit status, which would  at the very least  need to recover from the impact of 
Mr Ws bankruptcy. While the impact of the bankruptcy would diminish over time, it 
would likely still have represented a significant barrier to obtaining a mortgage.Id considered what Akira had said and provided about the prospects of Mr W and 
Ms Ps credit status improving, most notably that it had talked to mortgage brokers 
about the issue and looked at availability in the market. But there was little evidence 
to show what this had yielded  only a copy of some undated information that was 
generic in nature, without a specified source, about the prospects of getting a 
mortgage after bankruptcy. Akira had also said that Mr W had been confident that 
he could obtain a replacement mortgage within two years, which it speculated was 
the result of conversations with other brokers. I still didnt think this was sufficient to 
reasonably conclude that Mr W and Ms P could afford to repay the loan. 
So I still didnt think it had been fair to commit Mr W and Ms P to the agreement. Akira 
should not have provided the mortgage in the first place, having done so without the 
requisite authorisation to either advise Mr W and Ms P or to lend to them in this way. Even 
setting that aside, the absence of a credible repayment strategy alone rendered the decision 
to lend on these terms unreasonable. While the mortgage itself may not have led to the 
financial difficulties that Mr W and Ms P experienced, those difficulties were significantly 
exacerbated by their obligations under the mortgage which ought not to have been in place. 
And I still thought the compensation set out in my first provisional decision represented a fair 
way to put things right  putting Mr W and Ms P in the position they would be in, as far as 
was fair and practicable, if the mortgage had not been granted in the first place.
Mr W and Mrs P confirmed their acceptance of my second provisional decision. Akira 
confirmed receipt, but didnt respond with any further comments or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me to take into account, I see 
no reason to depart from my second provisional decision. So this decision simply confirms 
my provisional findings, as summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Akira Financial Limited to:
Reimburse Mr W and Ms P the sum of £66,916.49;
Add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, calculated from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr W and Ms P compensation of £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman