DRN-1955347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about their home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) because theyve declined some aspects of a claim they made for water damage.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs O woke to find their home had suffered an escape of water. 
They made a claim for the damage caused to Lloyds under their home insurance. An 
emergency plumber was sent, under their Home Emergency cover, who closed off the water 
supply which left Mr and Mrs O without water for two days. Another plumber came to fix the 
leak, Mr and Mrs O said as it wasnt known where the water was escaping from, he had to 
make two separate holes in their ceiling. On locating the leak they said the plumber had to 
remove their laminate flooring to access and repair it, as this couldnt be done from the 
ceiling below. The plumber charged Mr and Mrs O £674.40, for trace, access and repair.
Lloyds arranged for a loss assessor to inspect the damage caused by the leak, and Mr and 
Mrs O said the loss assessor advised them to get an asbestos test. They also got a couple 
of quotes for the damage to be repaired. But said Lloyds refused to cover the cost of the 
repairs, the asbestos test and for tracing and accessing the leak. They complained.
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs Os policy covered trace and access, not trace or access and as Mr 
and Mrs O knew where the leak was coming from, it didnt need to be traced. They also said 
theyd offered a settlement amount, but Mr and Mrs O hadnt agreed the settlement value for 
their claim. They did accept there had been some delay, but said this was mainly caused by 
Mr and Mrs O. But accepted they were responsible for some of it and offered Mr and Mrs O 
£25 to compensate them for this.
Mr and Mrs O werent happy with their response as they werent able to use what had 
previously been a much-used dining room as the damage hadnt been repaired. And theyd 
had to pay £100 to get the two holes in their ceiling temporarily repaired. They brought their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said a reasonable person would deduce the leak might be in the
ceiling cavity and would likely be from a water pipe. But some degree of trace and
access would be required to confirm this. And so, found that the cost for this should be 
covered by Mr and Mrs Os policy. He also said Lloyds should cover the cost of the 
temporary repairs and pay Mr and Mrs O £350 for the trouble and upset that had been 
caused.
Lloyds didnt agree, they said as the origin of the leak could be narrowed down to a small 
area, the work done by the plumber was only to gain access to it for repair. They also said 
theyd offered a cash settlement, less the policy excess for the water damaged ceiling. And 
would also pay for the water damaged contents and the cost of the asbestos report. So, they 
didnt accept our investigators findings about the trace and access and didnt agree they had 
caused unnecessary trouble and upset. Lloyds has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Most property insurance policies will include cover for an escape of water. This generally is 
caused by a leaking or burst pipe or a domestic appliance. The cover doesnt include the 
repair to the damaged pipe, as it was in this case  it usually only covers the damage 
caused by the water, after its escaped. And Im pleased to see that Lloyds have offered a 
cash settlement to Mr and Mrs O to cover the damage caused by the water leak. What I 
need to determine is whether the damage caused in locating the leak and accessing the pipe 
to repair it and prevent further leakage is covered by Mr and Mrs Os policy. And if 
something has gone wrong how to put things right.
Mr and Mrs Os policy says:
Trace and access.
If the buildings of your home are damaged due to:
i) Escape of water from any domestic appliance or any fixed domestic water installation, or
freezing of water in fixed domestic water or heating systems
And
We will pay the reasonable cost of removing and replacing any other part of the buildings
necessary to find the source of the leak and making good.
This means that trace and access should provide cover for finding the source of a leak and 
putting right any damage caused in doing so. But as Lloyds has said the policy does say 
Trace and Access and not trace or access. And have added that the leak didnt need to be 
traced as it was confined within a narrow area, which they say shows it was possible to know 
where the leak was. So, Ive considered both elements.
From looking at the photographs, I can see an area that appears to show water damage to 
Mr and Mrs Os dining room ceiling. The plumbers report says the ceiling was removed to 
trace the leak and says, Burst pipe cold water supply?. I think this shows while Mr and Mrs 
O and the plumber mightve had an idea as to where the leak was coming from, they werent 
sure. And I think if theyd narrowed the location of the leak the plumber would have simply 
removed the flooring to access and repair it. But I think the report shows uncertainty as to 
the cause of the leak. And Im persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os account of the plumber having 
to make a couple of holes in their ceiling to locate it, which I think shows there was a need to  
trace the leak before accessing it through the flooring to carry out the repair.
So, Im satisfied that the leak needed to be traced. The damaged pipe was located under Mr 
and Mrs Os flooring and would have only been accessible with the removal of the flooring. 
So, I think the repair to the ceiling and the flooring would be covered under the policys 
Trace and Access . And Lloyds should now make good  the damage.
I can see this matter has been upsetting for Mr and Mrs O as they reasonably
expected the trace and access damage to be covered. Im aware of the inconvenience and 
distress claims such as this can be, and theyve had to live with their ceiling only being 
temporarily repaired for some time.  Lloyds had offered to compensate Mr and Mrs O £25,  
but I agree with our investigator they should increase this to £350My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
accept the claim for the trace and access damage and arrange for the repair of the 
damaged ceiling and flooring, or pay Mr and Mrs O so they can do this;
refund Mr and Mrs O £100 for the temporary repair work done to their dining room 
ceiling and
pay Mr and Mrs O £350 for the trouble and upset caused to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman