DRN-3958643
The complaint
Mr F complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com lent to him 
irresponsibly. He says it failed to help him when he fell into difficulty as a result of the loan.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr F applied for and received a loan of £5,000 from GeorgeBanco. It was to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £197.29. In May 2022, Mr F complained to GeorgeBanco 
about the loan saying it hadnt carried out sufficient checks and if it had, it ought to have 
refused to lend to him. He says he had to take out other finance to meet the repayments and 
that when he lost his job, GeorgeBanco were unsympathetic to the financial difficulties he 
faced. 
GeorgeBanco looked into his complaint. It said it couldnt show all the necessary checks 
were carried out on his application, so it upheld the complaint. It refunded all interest and 
charges applied and reworked the account. It said Mr F had paid a total of £2,617.48, so it 
deducted that from the £5,000 hed borrowed, leaving £2,382.52 outstanding. GeorgeBanco 
asked Mr F to reach a payment plan with it which he could afford, and removed all mention 
of this loan from his credit file.
Mr F was unhappy with GeorgeBancos response and said it should write off the entire loan. 
He asked for compensation for the enormous financial difficulty he faced due to the loan, 
and for GeorgeBancos handling of his account when he lost his job.
He referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He said 
GeorgeBancos offer was in line with what wed recommend in complaints regarding 
irresponsible lending. He considered Mr Fs circumstances and GeorgeBancos subsequent 
handling of the account. Our investigator said he felt GeorgeBanco acted reasonably in 
working with Mr F by offering arrears deferrals and other arrangements. He didnt think 
GeorgeBanco needed to take any further action over and above what it had already offered 
to do.
GeorgeBanco accepted what our investigator said, but Mr F didnt. As there was no 
agreement, Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
GeorgeBanco has said it is unable to find the evidence to show the necessary checks were 
carried out on Mr Fs loan application. That is not the same as saying it didnt do them or that 
the loan was lent irresponsibly  simply it cant find the evidence four years after the loan 
was granted. While Id normally expect it to be able to provide the evidence, Im pleased to 
see that rather than try to argue its case, it made an offer in line with what wed normally 
recommend in cases of irresponsible lending.
But Mr F has suggested that the loan should be written off entirely. He says GeorgeBancos 
actions have ruined his previously excellent credit file as he now has County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) and negative notes on his report. He says he was left with no option but 
to apply for other loans and sell various belongings in order to repay GeorgeBanco.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence both parties to this complaint have provided. As a 
starting point however, I should explain that where a loan has been given incorrectly, we 
would normally expect the borrower to repay the money they received under the loan, but 
without any interest or charges. That is because they have received the money from the 
lender and used it for their own purposes, so its fair they should repay it. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable for the lender to profit by receiving interest on the money lent by mistake.
So its clear that I dont think it is unreasonable for GeorgeBanco to be looking for the 
remaining balance of the loan to be repaid by Mr F. It has removed all interest and charges 
and deducted all the payments Mr F has made from the balance. It has also removed the 
loan from his credit file. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask GeorgeBanco 
to write off the remaining balance, but Ive gone on to consider whether I think it should 
compensate Mr F for the difficulties hes experienced since the loan was agreed. 
Mr F has said his credit report has been ruined as a result of this loan. Hes provided a copy 
of it dated October 2022. While it doesnt show the position he was in at the time of his 
application to GeorgeBanco, it does provide some information back to October 2016  so 
around 18 months before the loan complained about was granted.
The report shows that between October 2016 and May 2018 (when the loan was drawn) 
Mr F had three defaulted accounts on his credit file totalling just over £2,000. Hed been in 
regular arrears on other accounts and had taken short term loans. So its clear Mr Fs credit 
report was impaired before he took the loan. 
But I can also see that since the loan was drawn, Mr F has had three CCJs registered. The 
first was in January 2019, and the others were both in 2022. His credit report doesnt show 
any outstanding credit taken or accounts defaulted since the GeorgeBanco loan was 
granted, so its not clear what these relate to. 
Having considered Mr Fs comments about his credit report, I can see it was impaired before 
the loan was drawn and continues to be impaired now. I cant see any evidence from the 
report that hes taken other loans or finance as he says, although I appreciate some lending 
doesnt appear on credit reports  such as that from friends and family. 
Im aware from what hes told us that he lost his job in May 2019, and I think that change in 
circumstances will have had a large affect on his ability to maintain his finances too. I think 
its likely that this will have had a detrimental effect on his credit file  I cant say any 
changes are solely due to this loan or that it is the main contributory factor.
Mr F says that following his redundancy he told GeorgeBanco he was in difficulty, but it 
refused any help. I can see from GeorgeBancos contact notes it had offered help. Mr F told 
it hed started new jobs on various occasions which led it to defer arrears and reach payment 
plans with him. But the payment plans didnt work out as he didnt keep to them.
The loan was drawn in May 2018, and Mr F made payments in June and July of that year 
before falling into arrears. Hes made numerous other payments since, amounting to 
£2,617.48 which has been deducted from the amount lent. But the loan has been in arrears 
for most of its life and, as Id expect, I can see that GeorgeBanco did try to help him as Ive 
explained. I dont think its right to say it didnt try to assist Mr F or that it was unsympathetic 
towards his financial difficulties.  Having considered all the evidence I have from both parties to this complaint, I think 
GeorgeBancos offer to clear interest and charges and remove the loan from Mr Fs credit 
file is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I realise it will come as a disappointment to 
Mr F, but Ive not seen anything that leads me to think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it 
to write off the loan or pay him any further compensation.
Id encourage Mr F to work with GeorgeBanco to reach a plan he can afford in order to repay 
the outstanding balance. I also remind GeorgeBanco of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman