DRN-3673059
The complaint
Mr A complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to block and subsequently close his 
account. 
What happened
In February 2021, Santander blocked Mr As account while they carried out a review. They 
didnt give Mr A a reason for the block, or a timeframe in which they would allow access to 
the account.
Mr A sought advice from a solicitor and considered that if Santander had concerns with the 
activity on his account, they would need to contact the National Crime Agency, however felt 
they should have dealt with things within a week or so. As Santander didnt update Mr A 
within that timeframe, he complained.
On 19 February 2021, Santander made the decision to close Mr As account with immediate 
effect. They sent him a cheque for the remaining balance held in his current account  
around £53,000.
Our investigator thought Santander were reasonable to review and block the account. But he 
didnt think the immediate closure was fair and thought two months notice would have been 
more appropriate in the circumstances. However, he didnt ask Santander to pay any 
compensation as he didnt receive any evidence from Mr A to confirm the impact of not 
having access to his Santander account had on him.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said he couldnt access over 
£50,000 of his money and then was left without his bank account so thinks this should be 
considered. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about his complaint. But Santander are entitled to review the 
account under the account terms and conditions. And a bank isnt generally obliged to 
provide an explanation as to why transactions cant be carried out at the moment an account 
holder is seeking to make them, or as to why funds are generally not accessible. Having 
looked at the evidence, like the investigator, Im satisfied that Santander acted in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr As account. I 
recognise the block caused Mr A significant distress as he couldnt access his money, but I 
cant fairly conclude that Santander did anything wrong. And therefore, I cant reasonably 
uphold the complaint for this reason.
I can also see Santander carried out their review within 14 calendar days. We wouldnt 
usually confirm a timeframe in which a bank has to carry out a review  but we would always 
consider if there were any unavoidable delays. I appreciate Mr A is unaware of why 
Santander took the actions they did  but Santander has shared information with our service. 
While Im unable to pass that information on to Mr A, Id like to reassure him that Im satisfied 
Santanders actions were both proactive and reasonable and Im satisfied they didnt cause 
any unnecessary delays.  
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr A decided to stop banking with Santander, he 
wouldnt have to explain why. 
However, Santander can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms 
and conditions of the account. Santander have relied on the terms and conditions when 
closing Mr As account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account immediately  
or give notice of at least two months. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint 
and I agree a notice period of two months would have been more appropriate than an 
immediate closure.
Ive thought carefully about the impact Mr As account being closed on the same day had 
compared to if he had been given two months notice. Overall, I dont think its made a 
substantial difference. I say that because Santander sent Mr A a cheque on the same day 
they decided to close the account  so he had access to his money without any further 
delays. I also havent seen any evidence of the impact Mr A said he occurred  such as not 
being able to pay his mortgage. Im not aware if Mr A held another bank account or not, as 
he hasnt provided our service which the requested evidence to show us this such as his 
credit file. Therefore, without any evidence of impact, I cant fairly ask Santander to 
compensate Mr A.
I know this will come as a great disappointment to Mr A and I understand his upset about 
this situation overall. But Im satisfied Santander were entitled to block and review the 
account; and I cant fairly conclude they should pay any compensation for the impact of 
closing the account immediately as I havent been provided with any evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman