DRN-2852130
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have dealt with his 
claim on his home insurance policy. 
  
What happened
On 15 November 2019 Mr M called Great Lakes to report a claim on his home insurance 
policy for escape of water. Hed noticed some bubbling on the living room ceiling and a 
problem with the flooring in his bathroom. And that when the shower was in use water 
leaked from it. He told Great Lakes the water was coming from the sealant or grouting.
Mr M told Great Lakes he wanted to use his own contractor. Great Lakes asked him to 
provide pictures and two estimates for the required repairs.
On 14 December 2019, Great Lakes chased Mr M for the pictures and estimates theyd 
requested. They offered Mr M the alternative of using their contractors to carry out the 
estimate instead. Mr M replied to Great Lakes a few days later, saying his plumber was 
unable to provide a quote until the new year. But that he had a second bathroom he could 
use in the meantime. He offered to provide the pictures and quotes as soon as he could. 
Nothing seems to have happened on the claim for a while. Then in March 2020, Great Lakes 
asked Mr M for an update. Mr M confirmed he wanted to proceed with his claim and asked 
Great Lakes to send a contractor to provide an estimate.
Trace and access was carried out on 9 March 2020 and a report followed on 2 April 2020. 
This confirmed that water was leaking through the shower doors/seals and that the right-
hand side of the shower enclosure floor was rotting. 
On 20 March 2020 Great Lakes contractors carried out an inspection of the damage. Great 
Lakes asked for further detail. On 16 April 2020 their contractors told them the problems had 
been caused by the sealant and grouting from the shower.
The next day Great Lakes told Mr M they would instruct their repair team. But due to
lockdown restrictions, the repair team couldnt attend until 19 June 2020. On that date they 
inspected the damage and provided an estimate for the repair work. But Great Lakes didnt 
review this until the end of July 2020.
On 29 July 2020 Great Lakes told Mr M that his claim wasnt covered as they felt the leak 
was due to wear and tear, which was excluded under the policy. Unhappy, Mr M 
complained. 
On 19 September 2020, Great Lakes sent their final response letter to Mr M. They confirmed 
they felt theyd correctly declined the claim due to wear and tear which is excluded under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. But they acknowledged they shouldve declined the claim 
when they received their contractors report in April 2020, rather than waiting till July 2020. 
They offered Mr M £50 compensation for the delay.
Mr M didnt agree. He told Great Lakes that the wear and tear wouldnt have been an issue if 
theyd reacted within an acceptable timeframe. He brought his complaint to this service.
On 8 March 2021, Great Lakes wrote to Mr M, having reviewed his complaint. They felt 
theyd correctly declined the claim. But they increased their compensation offer to £150 as 
they felt they shouldve declined the claim sooner. 
Our investigator felt that Great Lakes had fairly declined the claim. But she felt they couldve 
declined it sooner. She acknowledged their increased compensation offer of £150 for the 
delay and said it was in line with what she wouldve suggested.
Mr M didnt agree. He told us hed offered to obtain his own quote for the work for Great 
Lakes to consider, but theyd refused. He felt that he hadnt been treated fairly. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Unfortunately, I expect Mr M will still be disappointed. 
Im not going to ask Great Lakes to do any more than pay the £150 compensation theyve 
already offered. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is
covered. The regular maintenance a property needs isnt covered by insurance. But sudden 
and unexpected events usually are. 
If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Ill first look at whether Great Lakes fairly declined the claim. Then Ill look at whether the 
delays to the declinature caused further damage.
Did Great Lakes correctly decline the claim?
The starting point for my review is the policy terms and conditions.
Under Section 1  Buildings it says:
3. Escape of water or oil from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus
and pipes.
Excluding
.
c) loss or damage caused by gradual emission

The policy definitions also cover Uninsurable Risks which are defined as:
Wear and tear, depreciation, fungus, wet or dry rot, vermin or insect damage, mechanical or 
electrical fault, rusting or corrosion, process of cleaning, repairing, restoration, renovating or 
any gradually operating cause or process.
Mr M also has Accidental Damage cover. This is defined as:Sudden, unexpected and unintentional damage, occurring at a specific time and caused by 
external means.
When Mr M reported the leak, he told Great Lakes he thought the water was coming from 
the sealant or the grouting. From everything Ive seen, the leak wasnt a sudden event, nor 
was it caused by external means. So it couldnt be covered under his Accidental Damage 
cover.
From the photos Ive seen, and what Mr M and the inspection report said, the escape of 
water was due to the sealant and grouting not being maintained. This mustve happened 
over time, or the floorboards wouldnt have rotted. 
Taking all of the evidence into account, Im persuaded that the cause of the leak was wear 
and tear/lack of maintenance. This isnt covered under Mr Ms policy. So Im satisfied Great 
Lakes acted fairly when they declined his claim.
I acknowledge that Great Lakes initially agreed the claim was insurable. But when they 
further assessed the reported damage in July 2020 they declined the claim due to wear and 
tear. Great Lakes accept that they shouldve declined the claim in April 2020, when they 
spoke to the assessors whod carried out the inspection. Great Lakes offered £150 
compensation for the delay. 
Mr M has told us that he and his family have been inconvenienced as theyve only had one 
bath working and no shower. Im sorry theyve been inconvenienced in this way. But looking 
at the claim as a whole, I can only hold Great Lakes responsible for the three-month delay in 
telling Mr M his claim was declined between April 2020 and July 2020. 
And I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint and is in line with what I wouldve recommended. 
Did the delay to the declinature cause further damage?
Mr M feels its taken Great Lakes almost a year to tell him his claim isnt covered. He says 
that the wear and tear noted by Great Lakes took place during the months its taken them to 
process his claim. So he feels theyre at least partly responsible for the damage.
But from what Ive seen, the delay shouldnt have caused further damage. Mr M said he 
wasn't using the leaking shower whilst waiting for the claim to be resolved. I appreciate this 
wouldve been inconvenient for him and his family. But Im not persuaded further damage 
was taking place if the shower wasnt being used.
I also note that from the evidence Ive seen, Great Lakes are only responsible for the delay 
between April 2020 and July 2020. Although Mr M first reported the claim in November 2019, 
he did nothing further to progress his claim until March 2020. At this point he asked Great 
Lakes to help him progress his claim, which they did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but having looked at all the evidence I dont consider that Great 
Lakes delayed decision to decline his claim caused any further damage. 
 
Putting things right
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr M £150 compensation for the delay in 
declining his claim.
  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr M £150 compensation 
for the delay in declining his claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman