DRN-3804174
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC has only offered to partially refund her, after she was 
the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
Ill summarise the facts of the complaint:
Mr and Mrs A were the victims of a sophisticated investment scam. As a result they invested 
£285,000 thinking they were purchasing various fixed rate bonds. This complaint focuses on 
three payments of £25,000 each that Mrs A made.
 
Metro refunded 50% of the first payment Mrs A made as part of this scam but because it 
says it didnt provide an effective warning. It said Mrs A was responsible for the remaining 
50% as she had conducted enough research prior to investing. And it decided not to refund 
the second two payments because it did provide her with effective warnings when she made 
the payments and the payments were in line with her recent account activity.
An investigator upheld the complaint in full. Metro disagreed and the complaint was passed 
to me to consider.
I considered this complaint (and a number of linked complaints) and issued a provisional 
decision. I have been in touch with both Metro and Mrs As representative, and following 
further discussions, all parties have now agreed to the recommendation set out in my 
provisional decision, with an adjustment to the interest rate to be paid on the refunded 
amounts.  
As that provisional decision has been accepted by both parties Ill set it out below.
Provisional decision
 Ive provisionally decided that Metro should refund 50% of all three transactions. Ill explain how Ive 
come to this conclusion.
In the table below Ive explained what refunds have already been made and what additional refunds I 
am recommending for the transactions made from Mrs As accounts.
Date Account Amount Metro 
refund 
offeredReceiving 
bankRefund from 
receiving 
bankRefund Im 
recommending
28/01/21 Mrs As 
account£25,000 £12,500 1 No further refund 
but interest to be 
added
28/01/21 Mr As sole 
account£25,000 £12,500 1
04/02/21 Mr As sole 
account£50,000 £25,000 1
05/02/21 Mr As sole 
account£50,000 £25,000 1
10/03/21 Mr As sole 
account£62,500 2 50% 
£31,250
09/04/21 Mr As sole 
account£22,500 1
28/05/21 Mrs As 
account£25,000 3 Metro to refund 
50% £12,500 plus 
interest
28/05/21 Mrs As 
account£25,000 3 Metro to refund 
50% £12,500 plus 
interest
Total loss
£285,000Total 
refund 
offered by 
Metro
£75
,000Total loss 
remaining 
after all 
refunds 
£178,750Additional refund 
to be paid by 
Metro
£25,000 plus 
interest
Metros responsibilities
I agree with the investigator that Metro ought to have, and didnt, provide effective warnings
for all the payments Mrs A made as part of this scam. And these are the requirements Metro
signed up to as part of the CRM.
Metro has agreed it didnt provide an effective warning when Mrs A made the first payment
online and has agreed to pay 50% of that first transaction.
The investigator also concluded that there wasnt detailed evidence about the conversations
that took place, face to face, when Mrs A made the second and third payments. And I agree.
Metro hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that it had a detailed conversation with
Mrs A or that an effective warning was given. The evidence Metro has provided shows that
either several questions werent asked, or Mrs As responses werent recorded.
Mrs A says she doesnt recall being asked much about the payments at the time she made
them. But I appreciate some time has passed since then, so its possible she might not recall
the warning being read to her. On balance, I think its likely the warning was given, as there
is some detail recorded about the transactions, albeit limited.
Metros records say a warning was given to Mrs A when the second and third payments
were made. Which Ive detailed in the background of this complaint. But I dont think the
warning is effective. It doesnt help to bring the nature of these scams to life, in the context of
how Mr and Mrs A had been contacted and what they had been told. It talks about
contacting the company directly, which Mr and Mrs A thought they had been doing when
they spoke to them over the phone. It also doesnt provide details to explain that legitimate
investment firms can be cloned, or variations on this and what other checks Mr and Mrs A
could have made to protect themselves from this type of scam. It also doesnt explain the
reasons for checking the FCA website and what this means or what they needed to look for
to satisfy themselves that the investments were genuine.
So Im persuaded that the investigators findings here are correct and Metro should refund
Mrs A 50% of her losses for all three transactions.
Should Metro have done more to protect Mrs A
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mrs A made these payments,
Metro should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among
other things).
The payments Mrs A made were for large amounts and were to new payees shed never
sent money to before. So, I think Metro should have identified that she could be at risk offraud and so carried out further checks before processing the payments. I think Metro
shouldve prevented the scam because the payments were unusual enough to have
warranted intervention beyond a written warning. And so, I think Metro should pay
compensatory interest (which I will address further in the putting things right section of this
provisional decision) from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
Did Mrs A have a reasonable basis for belief.
Mrs A made the first payment, as part of this scam on the same day that Mr A also made his
first payment. So, I have considered their actions, in light of what they both said about the
scam.
I have thought carefully about the information Mr and Mrs A were presented with, the steps
they took and their actions when deciding if they had a reasonable basis for believing that
they were dealing with a legitimate business or person.
There are some factors which make the contact appear reasonably legitimate:
-It appears as though D was attempting to clone a genuine company based in Luxemburg, 
but it has different addresses in Luxemburg and another in the UK, with different website 
addresses, and the name of the company is slightly different. But I dont think Mr and Mrs 
A looked beyond the website they were given for D, to check if it was genuine and 
consequently they missed these differences.
-Mr and Mrs A werent contacted out of the blue, they had been looking for investment 
opportunities online, filled in forms and had a call back in relation to their enquiries. So, 
the contact they received wouldnt have seemed suspicious in and of itself.
-They received a brochure which looked professional, and they said there was a 
convincing website at the time  although there is no record of this now. Mrs A has more 
recently told us that they received log-in information for an online platform showing what 
they thought were their investments although again there is not evidence of this now. But 
I can see why all of this would have been persuasive.
But there are several factors which I think ought reasonably to have given Mr and Mrs A
concern. They dont appear to have carried out any detailed checks on D.
-Although they said they checked the FCA register and didnt find anything. By doing so 
they ought to have noticed that there wasnt any information because D wasnt authorised 
in the UK. And as a result, they incorrectly believed their investments would be covered 
by the FSCS without checking if that was correct.
-I cant see that they checked Companies House  if they had they would have seen there 
is no record of D in the UK. And that ought to have been concerning.
-If they had checked the CSSF register carefully they would have seen a different 
registered address is given for the genuine company. But as Ive said above, other 
features of the genuine company are different to D as well. So, Im not persuaded a 
reasonable person would think they were the same company when deciding to invest 
such large amounts of money.
-And the warning added by the FCA doesnt say D was using genuine details of an 
authorised firm. It says D is not authorised by the FCA. It references the CSSF warning 
which says a company with a very similar name to D is not related to the website given in 
the warning. Although this was added after Mr and Mrs A had invested with D it helps to 
highlight that whilst D was attempting to clone a genuine company on careful inspection 
had different details. And I think given the amount of money Mr and Mrs A were investing, 
in a new company they had never heard of or dealt with before, they ought to have 
checked the details they were provided with and if they had they would have seen they 
werent that of the genuine company.
-They didnt think it was suspicious that they were making payments to various different 
payees  unrelated to either D or the bonds they thought they were taking out. And Im 
not persuaded that being told they were holding accounts (to allow a 14- day cooling off 
period) is reasonably believable, given some of the names of the payees used and their 
experience of purchasing bonds in the past.-It doesnt appear that D carried out any due diligence checks with Mr and Mrs A, for 
example copies of their ID taken (as they were a new client with D), which would have 
made the company appear legitimate.
-The brochure they received mentions a fee for the services D was providing. But I
havent seen any evidence that a fee was paid or discussed. Which would seem unusual 
given that D was finding and arranging the bonds on their behalf.
-Monthly average rates, for a 3-year fixed rate bond were approximately under 1% (taken 
from the Bank of Englands historic monthly average rate). So, although it might seem, 
that the initial bond they were offered, of 4.753% wasnt excessively high  it was 
considerably higher than any other fixed bond rate being offered at the time  so they 
ought to have considered if what they were being offered was too good to be true and I 
think it was.
I appreciate Mrs As son has explained that Mr and Mrs A didnt have online banking andthat they 
hadnt invested online before. He said they had previously invested with banks that
they could visit or used trusted websites which recommended the best bonds and rates, or
they would just reinvest in the same bond after it expired. I think their previous experience,
albeit limited meant they should have been all-the-more cautious, especially given the large
volumes of money they were transferring.
And I dont think Metros failure to spot that Mrs A was being scammed can lead to the
conclusion that his actions were reasonable. Mrs As actions still need to amount to her
having a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a genuine company.
Its because of these factors that I think Mr and Mrs A (and for the purposes of this complaint
Mrs A) didnt have a reasonable basis for believing they were dealing with a genuine
company and therefore shouldnt receive a full refund.
Conclusions
Im currently persuaded that Metro is responsible for 50% of Mrs As losses for the three
transactions made as part of this complaint.
Ive considered how interest should be paid and there is enough evidence to persuade me
that Mr and Mrs A would have invested in several fixed rate bonds, for different fixed
periods, most likely between one and three-years fixed..
So for the purposes of applying an interest rate payment to the settlement figure I have done
the following:
Rather than breakdown each individual payment and linking that to the monthly average rate
for each length of bond. Ive looked at the average rate for one and three-year fixed rate
bonds (using the database for the Bank of Englands monthly average rate) during the time
that Mr and Mrs A made these payment - to apply an average interest rate to all the
payments.
And instead of applying the rates for fixed periods it seems broadly fair to apply those rates
from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
And at the time Mr and Mrs A made these payments the rate for:
- a three-year fixed rate bond was between 0.57% and 0.6%.
- a one-year fixed rate bond between 0.23% and 0.29%
So, I have taken an average of these rates and I think an interest rate of 0.42% is broadly
fair. If either party feels strongly that a different rate should be applied, then I will consider those
representations before issuing a final decision on this and the linked complaints.
Otherwise my provisional recommendations are as follows. Metro to:
- Add interest at 0.42% to the refunds already paid from the date of the payments to
the date of settlement.- Refund a further £25,000 which represents 50% of the second and third transactions that 
Mrs A made as part of this scam. Plus interest at 0.42% from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having discussed the complaint further with Metro it decided to agree with the above 
recommendations. Mrs As representative provided some additional commentary which I 
considered further but this didnt change the overall outcome of the complaint. In summary I 
said the following: 
- Even if I accepted that Metro hadnt given any warnings to Mrs A  as she had 
recalled - the finding that Metro had not met its standard under the CRM code 
would be the same, and the refund amount would be the same. 
- Mr and Mrs As lack of knowledge about Companies House was only one of a 
number of reasons I didnt think they had a reasonable basis for believing the 
investments were legitimate. 
- The varying payee names ought to have concerned Mr and Mrs A  given how 
they had purchases bonds previously. 
- Mrs As representative said the scammer did carry out ID checks with them and I 
said this would have added to the scam seeming legitimate. But that in itself 
didnt outweigh the other factors which they ought to have had concerns about.
- Whilst a broker fee was printed on the first invoice it wasnt ever paid and it didnt 
appear to be raised or invoiced for again. And no other fees were invoiced for or 
paid for. 
- Looking at fixed rate bonds available around January 2021 (when Mrs A made 
the first payment) I was still of the opinion that the rates offered by the scammers 
were too good to be true.
- Outcomes and offers from other banks did not impact my impartial consideration 
of this complaint. 
- Interest awards needed to reflect the loss of interest Mr and Mrs A suffered 
during the time they were without this money. 
Mrs As representative suggested that a 1% interest rate would be more representative of 
the fixed rate bond products that Mr and Mrs A were looking to invest in at the time. I asked 
Metro if it would be willing to pay 1% interest (instead of the rate I suggested in my 
provisional decision) and it agreed.
So the findings in the my provisional decision stand, along with the additional comments 
above and there has been a change to the interest awarded. 
Putting things right
I direct Metro to 
- Add interest at 1% to the refunds already paid from the date of the payments to
the date of settlement.
- Refund a further £25,000 which represents 50% of the second and third 
transactions that Mrs A made as part of this scam. Plus interest at 1% from the date 
of the payment to the date of settlement.My final decision
I partly uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay the recommended 
settlement as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman