DRN-3272586
The complaint
Mr S complains about two loans from Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
(Bamboo), which he says were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr S was given two loans by Bamboo. Loan 1 was for £5,000 and was taken out in       
March 2019. Loan 2 was for £5,200 and was taken out in February 2020. Loan 1 was repaid 
from the proceeds of Loan 2. Some of the information Bamboo provided about the loans is 
shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 20 March 
2019Around 25 
February 
2020£5,000 47 monthly 
repayments 
of £213.37 
and one 
repayment of 
£213.5148
2. Around 25 
February 
2020Not yet 
repaid£5,200 47 monthly 
repayments 
of £221.92 
and one 
monthly 
repayment of 
£221.8748
Loan 1 was secured by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if he failed to 
make his repayments. The interest rate was 41%, (49.7% APR). If Mr S made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £10,241.90 in total.
Mr S referred to Loan 2 as a top up loan. This loan was also secured by a guarantor. The 
interest rate was 41%, (49.7% APR). If Mr S made each payment when it was due, hed pay 
£10,652.11 in total. Bamboo used the proceeds of  Loan 2 to repay Loan 1. The loan 
agreement said that Bamboo would pay no less than £600 to the guarantors account. 
Mr S says that when Bamboo offered him Loan 1, he was already in high financial difficulty 
and had a high level of debt. He also wasnt earning anywhere near what they claimed. He 
was gambling every day at the time and if any proper checks had been made, Bamboo 
would have seen all that and he should never have been offered a loan in the first place, let 
alone a top up loan (Loan 2) not much later. Mr S also said that Loan 1 had put him in great 
debt. It made him struggle to pay for basic things like rent and council tax and taking out the 
loan resulted in him going into a debt management plan. He has never been more 
depressed or anxious in his life. Mr S was seeking a fair refund and for his guarantor to be 
removed from the loan.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said, in summary, that its review showed that overall,   
Mr S had good credit profiles going back several years. He had no county court judgements 
and all of his credit was up to date with no missed payments. It also considered the amount 
of debt Mr S had in relation to his income. At the time of his first application, this was £6,408. 
When compared to Mr Ss net income of £25,044, the debt was considered to be low and 
manageable. It used a credit reference agency income verification tool which drew on bank 
account data to check that Mr S had the necessary income and made a statistical 
determination of his additional living expenses using data from the Office for National 
Statistics (ONS). After deducting Mr Ss living costs and loan servicing costs, Bamboo said 
that he had a monthly disposable income of £880 on Loan 1 to meet the proposed loan 
repayment of £213.37. This demonstrated that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr S 
and there was a good buffer in case of changes in circumstances. Bamboo also 
acknowledged that it could perhaps have asked more questions at the time of his  
application for Loan 2. So, it said it was willing to write off interest of £772.27 in respect of 
the top up advance on this loan. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint about Loan 1 and recommended that it be upheld. 
He noted that Bamboo had agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loan 2. So, he said that 
he wouldnt be considering that.
The investigator said that whilst Mr S was maintaining the payments to his existing creditors, 
he thought  there were indications about the way Mr S was managing his money that 
shouldve led Bamboo to go further in its checks. Mr S had recently used payday loans. The 
investigator said that this didnt seem to correlate to someone with the surplus income that 
Bamboo identified and was relying on before deciding to lend. He said that Bamboo needed 
to take additional steps to better understand Mr Ss finances before agreeing to lend to him. 
The investigator had reviewed Mr Ss bank statements and concluded that Mr Ss financial 
situation was fragile and given the position he was in, he was not someone who shouldve 
been lent to. 
.
Bamboo disagreed and asked to see Mr Ss bank statements which Mr S agreed could be 
sent to Bamboo. But before receiving these it responded to the investigators view to say, in 
summary, that:
- Mr S had a good credit history and its assessments demonstrated that the loan was 
sustainably affordable.
- If used for its intended purpose, the loan would have allowed Mr S to settle 78% of his 
outstanding debt. More specifically, he would be able to clear the balances on all his credit 
cards and his mail order account.
- Whilst Mr S had recently taken out some new credit cards, his balance to limit ratio was 76% 
and he had not exceeded any of the limits available to him. Furthermore, he was making 
payments that were likely to be more than the minimum required in the several months 
leading up to the Bamboo application.
- It didnt agree that a loan term of 48 months should have automatically warranted a request 
for bank statements. 
- Regarding Mr Ss payday loan usage, it said that his credit report showed that he had not 
opened any short-term high-cost lending accounts in 2019 and his previous payday loans 
were settled. 
- It had seen no evidence to suggest that its assessment of Mr Ss income, essential
 everyday living costs, debt servicing expenditure or accommodation costs were inaccurate.Mr S responded to say that by the time he applied to Bamboo for Loan 1, he already had 
other loans including a high cost loan for £8,000, a short term loan for £1,600, another loan 
for £700 and he owed about £3,000 on credit and store cards. His bank statements would 
have shown that every penny was going on gambling. Mr S was also struggling to pay his 
rent and other bills, and he owed council tax. Bamboo could have seen or asked in a simple 
conversation about his situation. He was receiving universal credit because he wasn't 
earning enough.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S
and to Bamboo on 4 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
As it appeared that Bamboo had accepted Mr Ss complaint about Loan 2, I said that I 
wouldnt investigate whether Bamboo had acted fairly in providing that loan. But I would 
include directions about Loan 2 in the redress section of the decision.
I also said that I was sorry to learn about Mr Ss difficulties.  
Id noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Bamboo was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ss creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that 
Bamboo had to consider both the risk to it that Mr S wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr S of not being able to make those repayments. 
In particular, Bamboo had to consider Mr Ss ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, I would have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, I would have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more 
detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss  
application for Loan 1 to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision? 
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss  
application for Loan 1 to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
Id noted that Mr S originally applied for a loan of £7,000. Bamboo said it could only lend him 
£5,000. Id thought this suggested that Bamboo had some concerns about Mr Ss finances 
before providing the loan. 
Bamboo had gathered some information from Mr S about his income and accommodation 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr S told Bamboo he was married with two dependents, he was a tenant and paid £300 rent, 
he was self-employed, and his net monthly income was £2,087. Id noted that Bamboos 
application details showed Mr Ss earned income as £1,387 and the rest came from another 
source such as benefits. But I thought the fact that Mr S was self-employed meant that his 
income might have been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have 
been his available income and might not have been net of all tax, national insurance, and 
business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr S was 
unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. So, I thought this might have caused Bamboo 
to take additional care when reviewing Mr Ss loan application. I couldnt see that it had 
asked Mr S for more information about his self-employed income or the income from a 
different source. I could see that Bamboo had said it used a credit reference agency income 
verification tool to verify his income. But having seen Mr Ss bank statements, I couldnt see 
that the income verification tool was accurate. 
Bamboo didnt ask Mr S for any information about his living costs. It assessed these 
according to ONS statistical information. 
The lender had also assessed Mr Ss monthly credit commitments at £450. Bamboo 
calculated that Mr S had a disposable income of £880. 
Id reviewed Bamboos credit check. Id noted that this showed that Mr S had 13 active credit 
accounts and that six of these had been opened in the previous six months. There were also 
11 credit searches made in the previous three months. I thought Bamboo might have been 
concerned about the credit searches  I could see that five of these were in the month prior 
to Mr Ss loan application  as well as the number of recent credit accounts.
In addition, I could see that Mr S had opened three credit card accounts in the three months 
prior to the loan application, one of which had only been opened around three weeks before 
his loan application. This suggested a recent need for credit and ought to have caused 
Bamboo to question Mr Ss disposable income. I could also see that one of these cards had 
a £1,000 credit limit and Mr Ss balance was around just £30 short of that.Id also seen more evidence of Mr Ss recent need for credit on the credit check. Id noted 
that Mr S borrowed two payday loans totalling over £1,000 less than three months before his 
loan application. Hed also borrowed an additional two payday loans three months before 
those loans. Although the two most recent payday loans were repaid in late January 2019, 
Mr Ss need to borrow these expensive loans suggested a recent need for credit which I 
thought ought to have concerned Bamboo. 
Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Mr Ss 
finances appeared to be under pressure and suggested that Mr S was likely struggling to 
manage his money. This was shown by Mr Ss relatively recent need for credit shown by the 
relatively high number of recent credit searches, three new credit card accounts in the 
previous three months and the recent payday loans. Id also noted that Mr S was still 
repaying two long term loans totalling around £5,000 taken out just a year before his loan 
application.
Bamboo was also likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr Ss credit commitments
Whilst Mr S had told Bamboo that he would be using the loan proceeds to consolidate some 
of his debts, I couldnt see from the information received from Bamboo that it had made this 
a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the loans would be paid off. And Mr S 
would still have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay even if he did repay 
some of his debts with the loan proceeds. 
I could also see that even if Mr S had used the proceeds of Loan 1 for debt consolidation, his 
total indebtedness was still increasing. He said he was using a loan of £5,000 to repay debt, 
but he would need around £10,250 to repay Loan 1.  
On balance, I didnt think Bamboo treated Mr S fairly when it agreed to lend to him based on 
the information it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for him would simply add to his debt levels. I also thought it might have 
been concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of available income 
(according to its own calculations) would need to borrow so much expensive credit so 
recently. Bamboo estimated that Mr Ss disposable income each month was around £880 
which I didnt consider to be consistent with the amount of debt he had, nor the need for a 
further high cost loan.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Ss 
living costs without verifying it. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Ss living expenses. But Mr Ss 
multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a loan to 
someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  which 
was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments of someone in Mr Ss circumstances - was 
fair, reasonable, and proportionate. 
In addition, Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. And given the 
amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I thought 
Bamboo should reasonably have taken steps to build a clearer picture about Mr Ss finances 
before providing him with an expensive loan in order to satisfy itself that Mr S could repay 
the loan over a 48 month period without the repayments having a significant adverse effect 
on his financial situation. He was, after all, committing to repay around £10,250 over that 
period. Bamboo was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr S, asking for copies of payslips, bills 
and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing 
credit commitments. Bamboo didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think 
the checks Bamboo had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Mr Ss complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown 
Bamboo that Mr S couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Ss bank 
statements to see what better checks would have shown Bamboo.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did Bamboo make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr S had provided this Service with his bank statements from around the time hed applied 
for Loan 1. Some of these were sent to Bamboo in October 2021, but Id noted the lender 
hadnt commented on them. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that Bamboo 
should have done. But I thought looking at these gave me the best picture of what the lender 
was likely to have seen had it made better checks. Had it sought some verification of Mr Ss 
finances before lending, I thought Bamboo wouldve been in a better position to understand 
Mr Ss financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id firstly reviewed Mr Ss bank statements for the period 17 January 2019 to                          
14 February 2019 which were also sent to Bamboo. Id noted that Mr Ss monthly income on 
the statements appeared to consist only of benefit income and was around £900, and 
around £1,200 less than hed declared to Bamboo. Id asked the investigator to ask Mr S if 
he was earning money at that time. He said he had earned £700 around that period but the 
receipt of this amount of earned income wasnt clear to me from the statements.
I could also see that Mr S had spent around £3,000 on gambling during that period. Mr Ss 
spending on gambling was frequent enough throughout that month that it was more likely 
than not that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to Mr S being able to 
repay the loan sustainably. In these circumstances, I didnt think that Bamboo would have 
lent if it knew this, as I thought it ought to have done if it had made better checks. 
The statements also showed that Mr Ss financial circumstances were strained. Hed 
borrowed a significant amount of short term credit (around £1,770 that month) to supplement 
his income. And as Mr S was borrowing a significant amount of short term credit, I also 
thought there was a very real prospect that Mr S would need to borrow again in order to 
repay his new loan and that would likely have a significant adverse effect on his financial 
situation. 
Mr S had also sent us his bank statements for February and March 2019. So, Id also 
reviewed those statements. His financial situation hadnt improved. Hed spent around 
£2,400 on gambling and had borrowed short term credit of around £1,800. Hed received 
around £737 in benefit income on 19 February 2019 and around £774 on 19 March 2019. 
Again, it wasnt clear if Mr S had received earned income during this period, although he had 
received some payments totalling around £400 from named individuals during this period. 
There were also returned payments and numerous overdraft fees shown on the statements.
So, I thought if Bamboo had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I 
thought it was likely it would have discovered Mr Ss income was substantially less than hed declared, his relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and the full extent of Mr Ss 
financial commitments. I thought Bamboo ought reasonably to have realised that Mr S was 
over committed financially and that he was having significant difficulties managing his 
finances. And even though Loan 1 was for debt consolidation, I thought the significant 
amounts spent on gambling transactions and the relatively high amount of short term 
borrowing would have suggested that Mr S was having serious problems managing his 
finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved. Mr Ss finances werent stable, and I 
didnt think that further checks would have provided the assurance Bamboo needed. And I 
thought Bamboo ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr S wouldve 
been able to repay his loan without him having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
So, I thought Bamboo should reasonably have concluded that it treated Mr S unfairly when it 
agreed to lend Loan 1 to him. So, subject to any further representations by Mr S and 
Bamboo, I said that I intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loan 1 and that Bamboo 
should put things right as shown below. As Bamboo appeared to uphold Mr Ss complaint 
about Loan 2 in its final response letter, my proposed award also included our usual 
directions for that loan. 
Id noted that Mr S had said that he would like his guarantor to be removed from the loan. 
The investigator didnt make any comment on that in his view. So, Id explained that 
removing a guarantor from a loan wasnt something that automatically followed just because 
we agreed a loan shouldnt have been provided. The guarantors liability ended as soon as a 
loan was repaid. But I understood Loan 2 hadnt yet been repaid and might not yet be repaid 
after Bamboo had provided the redress shown below. Id said that if the guarantor would like 
us to investigate whether Bamboo had acted fairly and reasonably when it approved the 
guarantor, then this was something we could investigate. But the guarantor should first 
complain to Bamboo and the lender then had a chance to respond to the complaint. If the 
guarantors complaint couldnt be resolved by agreement, then the guarantor could complain 
to this Service and we would investigate that as a separate complaint.
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I understand that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and that Loan 2 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr S back into the position he would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for him, Bamboo needs to ensure that Mr S only repays the 
total amount of money he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2. So, 
Bamboo needs to:
1. Add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
Loans 1 and 2. For the avoidance of doubt this added up amount should not include 
any interest, charges, document or any other administration fees;
2. The payments Mr S made (to Loans 1 and 2) should be deducted from this amount;
3. Any payments made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds the amount of 
money Mr S was given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr S;
4. Interest at 8% per year simple should be paid on any overpayments made, if they 
were, from the date they were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;*
5. If the total amount of money paid by Mr S doesnt exceed the total amount of money 
he received as a result of having been given Loans 1 and 2 (and for the avoidance of 
doubt any outstanding balance shouldnt include any interest, charges and document 
or other administration fees), Bamboo should treat Mr S positively and sympathetically regarding repayment of the balance. This might mean agreeing a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; and
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file as a result of Loans 1 
and 2; 
If Bamboo has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 2, it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If Bamboo isnt able to buy the 
debt back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about 
steps 1. to 6. above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr S was happy with my provisional decision and had no further comments to add.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr S and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loan 1 and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above 
under the heading Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loan 1. In full and final settlement of    
Mr Ss complaint, I order Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to put things right as 
Ive set out above under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman