DRN-1123448
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about how National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) treated him when 
he made two transactions. 
What happened
Mr C is unhappy about the questions he was asked by branch staff when he wanted to 
change money into a £50 note. He says he was asked why he needed a £50 note and what 
it was going to be used for in front of other customers.  
Mr C also complained that a year previous to this, it took him around two and a half hours to 
withdraw £3,000. He says he was again questioned in front of other customers, but also he 
was held in the branch against his will for two and half hours and told that if he left, the police 
would be called.  Mr C says he has mental health issues and shouldnt have been kept for 
that long. 
Mr C said hed like to be treated as if hes not some kind of criminal and would like a 
handwritten note of apology from everyone at the branch. 
NatWest rejected Mr Cs complaint but sent him a £20 gift voucher by way of an apology for 
the way he was made to feel. It said it had only carried out basic checks on Mr C when he 
withdrew the £3,000 and these checks wouldve taken minutes to complete. And that any 
questions wouldve been asked to protect Mr C from falling victim to a scam. Mr C wasnt 
happy with this response and says he returned the gift voucher to NatWest by post. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator did not uphold it. Our investigator didnt 
think NatWest needed to do anything more because:
There was insufficient evidence to show how long Mr C was in the branch on the day 
he withdrew the £3,000.
Banks have a responsibility to safeguard account holders money and so asking 
customers questions about withdrawals isnt unusual and these sorts of checks 
would be likely to only take a few minutes. 
There was no record of Mr C asking for a £50 note on the date he complained.  
 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I asked Mr C to confirm the questions he was asked by NatWest staff when he made the 
£3,000 and the £50 transactions. And I asked NatWest for some further information, 
including clarification on its procedures at the time of the events Mr C describes.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Cs complaint.  I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C wanted, so Ill explain my reasons. 
I dont feel the questions Mr C says he was asked when he wanted to change money into a 
£50 note were unreasonable given NatWests responsibility to protect its customers.  It is 
also not unusual for these questions to be asked where there are other customers present. 
So I dont think NatWest did anything wrong here.  
Mr C says he was asked why he wanted to withdraw £3,000, what he needed it for and 
whether hed be making more withdrawals for this amount. Ive reviewed the checks 
NatWest say it would have carried out on £3,000 cash withdrawals - including the questions 
Mr C would have been asked.  Given NatWests duty to protect its customers from scams, I 
dont think the questions NatWest said it would have asked or the questions Mr C says he 
was asked are unreasonable. Nor is it unreasonable for NatWest to ask these questions 
where other customers are present. 
Mr C says that NatWest withheld his driving license from him and made him remain in the 
branch for two and a half hours telling him it would call the police if he tried to leave. 
NatWest provided me with details of its procedures but not Mr Cs customer event file, as it 
said its records did not go back as far as the date of the £3,000 cash withdrawal. The branch 
manager, who was at the branch at the time, says she has no recollection of the events Mr C 
describes when Id expect them to stand out and be memorable to her. So Ive made my 
decision based on what - on balance - is most likely to have happened by reviewing 
NatWests procedures and its records of Mr Cs transactions that day alongside what Mr C 
says happened. 
I can see that Mr C entered his PIN four times at teller positions at the branch that day and 
that there was around and hour and a half between the first PIN entry and when Mr C was 
paid the £3,000 after the forth PIN entry.  But it isnt clear if Mr C was in the branch for the 
whole of that time.  Or how long he was in the branch before the first PIN entry or after he 
was paid the £3,000. NatWests procedures show the £3,000 cash withdrawal would have 
only required basic checks and I am satisfied, given what these involve, that it is unlikely 
these would take two and half hours. 
Ive reviewed the £3,000 transaction.  NatWest have said, and Mr Cs bank statements 
show, that the audit trail for the funds was visible and would not have given NatWest any 
cause for concern. So, I cant say on balance that NatWest would have had cause to call the 
police. And, as Ive already mentioned, the branch manager has no recollection of the events 
Mr C describes.  
NatWest has said that any identification provided by a customer would usually be checked at 
the counter. If the teller needed to leave their position with the identification, it would only be 
to check it for authenticity under a UV light. I am satisfied then that any checks of Mr Cs 
identification would have taken only a few minutes. And, given that NatWest were unlikely to 
have any concerns about the withdrawal, it is unlikely it would have kept Mr Cs driving 
license from him. 
For the reasons above, I shall not be awarding Mr C any further compensation. I appreciate 
branch procedures can sometimes take longer than usual. But I feel it unlikely, given the 
value of the cash withdrawal and the type of transaction, NatWest would have departed from 
its procedures to the extent Mr C describes. I dont think, on balance, Mr Cs driving license 
was withheld from him or that he was told the police would be called if he left the branch. 
Finally, I dont think the questions NatWest asked were unreasonable. Taking everything Ive 
seen, I think NatWests offer of a £20 gift voucher and its apology by way of its final 
response is fair and reasonable. My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should reissue the £20.00 
gift voucher to Mr C, if it hasnt already done so, but I dont instruct it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman