DRN-3110169
The complaint
Mr M and Ms R have complained that they were only given a quotation for a new buildings 
insurance policy by Geo Underwriting Services Limited (Geo Underwriting) four days 
before their policy was due to expire. Theyre also unhappy that the new insurance policy 
offered didnt include subsidence cover. 
What happened
On 9 September 2020, Mr M and Ms R received an insurance proposal from 
Geo Underwriting for their property, which didnt include cover for subsidence. Their existing 
policy, taken out with Geo Underwriting, was due to expire on 13 September 2020. Mr M 
complained to Geo Underwriting about the inadequate time they had to consider and query 
the new policy. He also complained that the new policy didnt include cover for damage 
caused by subsidence, which he felt was vital, given that they had an ongoing, un-resolved 
claim for damage to the property caused by subsidence. Mr M was also concerned that if the 
property suffered any new damage, as a result of subsidence, that wouldnt be covered by 
the building insurance.
Geo Underwriting issued their final response to Mr M and Ms R, not upholding their 
complaint, on 13 November 2020. In that response they advised that they had ceased 
working with the broker, P, since May 2020. They also advised that they no longer worked 
with the insurer, A, because theyd ceased to offer cover in the UK market. As a result, they 
could only place Mr M and Ms Rs risk on their Specialist Home scheme with a different 
insurer, R, who were unwilling to provide subsidence cover due to the unresolved 
subsidence claim. Geo Underwriting advised that if a new claim for subsidence was made 
for new damage that occurred after 13 September 2020, that it would not be covered by the 
policy.
Unhappy with the final response, Mr M and Ms R brought their complaint to our service.
In the covering email, enclosing their business file, Geo Underwriting said theyd asked R to 
provide subsidence cover, but R had declined. They also said they had no other places they 
could try to obtain subsidence cover from. Our investigator asked Geo Underwriting why the 
renewal documents were only sent to Mr M and Ms R four days prior to their current policy 
expiring. Geo Underwriting explained that they dont provide the customer with the renewal 
documents, instead, one of their retail partners, a broker who Ill refer to as T, was asked to 
contact Mr M with a quote. They also said Mr M would have been advised that he could seek 
cover elsewhere, but again, it would have been the broker, T, whod advised him of that.
Our investigator issued her view, not upholding the complaint, on 8 October 2021. In 
summary she said that Geo Underwriting had asked R to provide cover for subsidence and 
she didnt think they could have done anything more than that. With regard to only being 
given four days to consider the renewal documents, before their existing policy expired, our 
investigator said she thought Geo Underwriting and the broker were jointly responsible for 
that, but she didnt think that had prejudiced Mr M and Ms Rs position. She reasoned that, 
even if a longer period of time had been allowed for, she still didnt think that would have 
made a difference to the question of whether or not Mr M and Ms R would have been able to 
obtain subsidence cover for their property while their subsidence claim was ongoing.
Mr M and Ms R didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans 
decision on their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, and for essentially the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
Its not always easy to insure a property that has been damaged by subsidence. Because of 
that, the insurance industry came up with some rules, specific to subsidence and 
continuation of cover, to try and make that easier for consumers. However, those rules only 
apply to the insurers who underwrote the policy that was in place when a subsidence claim 
was made. Ive considered this issue for Mr M and Ms R, in a provisional decision dated the 
same date at this decision, regarding their complaint made against their previous insurer, 
who Ill call A. I therefore wont be commenting on that, in this decision.
In its most basic form, an insurance intermediary is a regulated financial business that acts 
as a link between the consumer and the insurer. In this case, two insurance intermediaries 
have been involved: Geo Underwriting, a coverholder (also known as an underwriting agent, 
who acts on behalf of an insurer); and T, an insurance intermediary. 
As a coverholder, Geo Underwriting acts as an agent of an insurer, previously A, and 
currently R, in agreeing on their behalf, to provide cover for certain risks (commonly referred 
to as binding to cover). Geo Underwriting have explained that they ceased binding Mr M 
and Ms Rs previous insurer, A, to cover by the end of May 2020, before their current policy 
was due to expire. Geo Underwritings relationship with P, Mr M and Ms Rs previous broker 
also came to an end at that time. So, when Mr M and Ms Rs insurance came up for renewal, 
Geo Underwriting was a coverholder for a different insurer, R, and was working with a new 
broker, T. 
When considering whether Geo Underwriting did anything wrong here, I first need to be clear 
about what their obligations were, in respect of Mr M and Ms R. When Geo Underwriting 
communicated Rs decision to decline to offer subsidence cover to Mr M and Ms R, it was 
acting as an agent of R. So, any complaint about that would need to be made to R (who is 
responsible for some of Geo Underwritings actions). However, any such complaint brought 
against a new insurer would be unlikely to succeed, because if they werent the insurer at 
the time of the subsidence claim, they wouldnt be under any obligation to continue to offer 
subsidence cover.
Ive next thought about whether Geo Underwriting have done anything wrong as an 
insurance intermediary acting on behalf of Mr M and Ms R, and again, I dont think they 
have. T, the new insurance broker sent the new quotation to Mr M and Ms R, at the request 
of Geo Underwriting. So, any complaint about the timing of receipt of the new quotation 
would need to be made against T. However, T had no obligation to proactively offer Mr M 
and Ms R a quotation for a new policy. It was up to Mr M and Ms R to seek renewal of cover, 
and on finding that wasnt available with their existing insurer, to obtain cover with another 
insurer. T offered their services to help them to do so. From the point in time that Mr M and 
Ms R accepted those services and decided to proceed with the insurance offered by T, then 
I could consider a complaint by Mr M and Ms R about any actions or inaction on the part of 
T. However, I would note that brokers like T, often work with a panel of insurers rather than 
having access to the whole market. And theres nothing unusual or unfair in that. Most 
insurers are interested in any subsidence that has occurred at the property and any history 
may affect a decision about whether or not to offer cover. Many insurers wont offer cover to 
new customers where subsidence has occurred, or where an existing claim is ongoing. 
There are specialists insurers who may agree to do so, however, I wouldnt usually suggest 
a broker had done anything wrong in not being able to find such an insurer for a consumer, 
where their terms of engagement with the consumer dont impose such an obligation.
To summarise, while Ive referred to other businesses whove been involved in some way 
with the renewal of Mr M and Ms Rs buildings insurance, (in an attempt to provide some 
clarity on the wider issues relevant to their complaint), this decision focuses solely on the 
actions or inactions of Geo Underwriting. 
Mr M and Ms Rs concerns in this case relate to the decision not to continue providing 
subsidence cover, and the timing of receipt of the renewal documentation. But as stated 
above, A is responsible for the decision to withdraw from the UK market (and not renew 
Mr M and Ms Rs policy); R is responsible for the decision not to offer new subsidence cover; 
and T is responsible for the timing of the renewal paperwork. 
So, while I sympathise with the difficulty Mr M and Ms R have had in trying to obtain cover 
for subsidence, for the reasons detailed in this decision, that difficulty wasnt due to any 
action, or lack of action, on Geo Underwritings part, so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman