DRN-3174701
Complaint
Mr U says that Santander UK Plc (trading as Santander) unfairly added an unarranged 
overdraft charge to his account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Us concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr U unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr U disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
amount Santander charged Mr U was fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to 
the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr U if it applied any charges to his account in circumstances 
where it was unfair to do so. Mr U says it was unfair for Santander to charge him when it did 
because it usually sent him a text message notifying that hed gone over the pre-agreed 
buffer before he was charged and on this occasion it didnt do so. 
Ive thought about what Mr U has said. However, Santander has provided us with records 
from its systems showing us that it sent a text message, to the number it had for Mr U, 
advising him he was overdrawn on the morning in question. I acknowledge that Mr U says 
he didnt receive the text message. I dont know if he did and hes indicated no one is able to 
prove whether or not the message was delivered. 
But the key thing here is that Santander has shown enough to persuade me that the 
message was sent to the correct number. And Mr U has himself confirmed that hed 
previously received messages sent in this way and in these circumstances. So I cant 
reasonably say that Santander ought to have done more, especially as there isnt anything to 
suggest it ought to have known the text message hadnt been received, or that it treated    
Mr U unfairly here. 
In these circumstances, as Mr Us account balance wasnt brought back within the agreed 
buffer on 25 November 2019 and the terms and conditions of Mr Us account permitted it to 
do so, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed with the charges it 
added. And Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Us complaint. 
I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr U  especially as hes quite rightly pointed 
out that it has taken some time for him to receive an answer from us. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman