DRN-3064127
The complaint
 Miss C has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply changes to her account when she was in financial difficulty and that the changes to 
Santanders charging structure has resulted in the cost of her overdraft increasing.  
What happened
Miss C complained to Santander about the excessive charges she was incurring on her 
overdraft when she was in financial difficulty. She said the extra cost made her overdraft 
more difficult to repay. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss C was dis-
satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Miss C was experiencing financial difficulty by 2 October 2017 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it reviewed 
Miss Cs overdraft on 2 October 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss C 
was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss C was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Miss Cs overdraft usage should have prompted Santander to have realised 
that Miss C wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it 
on the same terms. As Santander didnt react to Miss Cs overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Santander didnt treat Miss C fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the review on 2 October 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Miss C to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss 
Cs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 2 October 2017.
It is unclear whether Santander has sold an outstanding balance on this account 
to a third-party debt purchaser, or asked a third-party to collect the balance on its 
behalf. But if Santander has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a 
third-party debt purchaser, it will need to either buy the account back from the 
third-party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party 
in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Miss C an amount to 
ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman