DRN-2840551
The complaint
    
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly when they removed the 
proceeds of a Bounce Back Loan from her personal account.
What happened
 In June 2020 Mrs P successfully applied for a loan of £21,250 under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, which was paid into her personal account on 8 June 2020. On the day of receipt 
Mrs P transferred the full amount to one of her other accounts that was held at another bank. 
But Barclays didnt think it should have paid the funds into Mrs Ps personal account. So, on 
3 July 2020 Barclays recalled the loan and debited the full balance from Mrs Ps account. At 
the time the account was already in an unauthorised overdraft position by approximately 
£2,900. And although a little over £2,600 was later credited to the account, the overdrawn 
balance stood at over £21,500. 
On 6 July 2020 Mrs P was told she needed to open a new business account into which the 
bounce back loan could be paid. Although there was some delay which Barclays attributed 
to initially receiving incorrect proof of trade from Mrs P, on18 August 2020 Barclays wrote to 
Mrs P confirming a new business account was now opened for her and a further loan of 
£21,250 was deposited into it.  
Mrs P thinks Barclays acted unfairly when they withdrew the loan proceeds from her 
personal account. Shes told us this led to direct debits being returned unpaid and insurance 
policies being cancelled as a result. 
Barclays acknowledged they made an error in the way they dealt with Mrs Ps loan 
application. They said they should first have set up a new business account before providing 
the loan as they later did in August 2020. They said they shouldnt have paid the loan into 
Mrs Ps personal account because this type of loan wasnt meant for personal customers. 
But they didnt believe they did anything wrong when they recalled the funds, and neither did 
they think they were responsible for Mrs Ps unpaid direct debits. 
However, Barclays did pay Mrs P £100 as a goodwill gesture. They said this was to help 
cover essential family expenses because after the loan was removed from her account, 
Mrs P had told them she had no money for such expenses. In addition, since Mrs Ps 
complaint was referred to our service, Barclays offered her a further £250. Barclays said this 
was for their poor service, including a delay in responding to Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs P didnt accept Barclays response and rejected their £250 offer when this was put to 
her.  
Our investigator agreed that Barclays had made an error when paying the loan into Mrs Ps 
personal account. But she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when taking the 
money back. The investigator was satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account 
allowed Barclays to do so. And without seeing copy statements for the account into which 
Mrs P had paid the proceeds of the bounce back loan after receiving it, the investigator didnt 
think she could say for certain what - if any - impact the withdrawal had on Mrs P, because 
she couldnt determine whether Mrs P still had funds available to pay her direct debits.  
Overall, the investigator thought that the total compensation of £350 that Barclays had 
already offered represented fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mrs P. 
Mrs P didnt agree, and her case has been referred to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I broadly agree with the investigators conclusions and Ill explain why. 
Barclays acknowledged they made an error in the way they handled Mrs Ps loan 
application. As Ive already noted they said they processed her loan application and paid the 
proceeds into her personal account, whereas they should first have opened a new business 
account for Mrs P, then processed her loan application and finally transferred the funds into 
the business account.  
That being said, Mrs P doesnt think Barclays should have withdrawn the proceeds of the 
loan from her personal account. And she believes by doing so to correct their error, Barclays 
acted unfairly. However, I dont agree.
The relevant terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account say:
If money is paid into your account by mistake 
Rarely, a payment could go into someones account by mistake. If this happens to 
you, we can do either of two things:
 We take the payment back out of your account
 We put a hold on the money so you cant spend it.
We dont have to tell you before we take back the payment or put a hold on the 
money. This is even if we have let you make a payment or take cash out against it.
Having identified they made an error, I am satisfied Barclays were entitled to correct it. And, 
on balance, I agree with the investigator that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account 
allowed Barclays to take the action they did in order to do so. In other words, I have not been 
persuaded that in the process of correcting their error, Barclays acted unfairly towards Mrs P 
when they debited the loan proceeds from her personal account.  
On 3 July 2020 Barclays called to tell Mrs P the action they were about to take. But they 
spoke to Mrs Ps husband, rather than Mrs P herself. The banks customer notes show that 
Mrs Ps husband asked Barclays to contact Mrs P. But I cant see that happened on 3 July 
2020. 
I appreciate the terms and conditions say Barclays does not have to give advance notice 
before taking a payment back from an account. But I think given the considerable amount 
they were proposing to withdraw from Mrs Ps account, as the account holder, it would have 
been reasonable for Barclays to tell Mrs P personally in advance about their intended action. 
I appreciate Barclays did so later ie 6 July 2020. But by this time theyd already debited Mrs 
Ps account. At the same time, they also informed Mrs P the steps she needed to take open 
a business account for her business so that a fresh bounce back loan could be processed. 
Mrs P has told us the decision to recall the bounce back loan funds meant that direct debits 
went unpaid. And I can see from the account statements that from 6 July 2020, a number of 
direct debits were indeed returned unpaid including payments for certain insurance cover.  Barclays say that by 3 July 2020, Mrs P had already withdrawn funds from her account 
leaving it in an unauthorised overdrawn position. They say that meant there werent funds 
available to cover payments as they became due in the days that followed. So, Barclays 
says that payments would always have been rejected, regardless of the action they took in 
debiting the funds from the personal account on 3 July 2020.
The account statements do indeed show debits from Mrs Ps account on 3 July 2020. And 
Im satisfied they did tip the account into an unauthorised overdraft position. Although I note 
some credits went into the account on the same day, they werent sufficient to bring the 
account back into credit, as well as cover the direct debits that were pending. 
So, from 3 July 2020 Mrs Ps account did not have enough funds to pay the direct debits. 
And whilst it is true the withdrawal by Barclays did increase the overdrawn balance 
substantially, Im satisfied that Barclays action on 3 July didnt cause the overdraft in the first 
place. It follows that since there were no cleared funds in the account when direct debits 
became due for payment on 6 July and in the weeks afterwards, Im not persuaded Barclays 
were obliged to pay those direct debits. And in particular because the overdraft position 
didnt come about because of the steps Barclays took to recall the bounce back loan.
Barclays believe Mrs P ought to have been aware from 3 July 2020 her account was 
significantly overdrawn and so in order to mitigate the impact, Mrs P should reasonably have 
cancelled the direct debits knowing she didnt have the funds to pay them.
But as Ive already noted, funds did appear to have been returned to Mrs P account on 3 
July 2020. Nonetheless, it remained overdrawn and its not unreasonable to assume Mrs P 
would have known this. It isnt clear whether Mrs P still had funds in the account into which 
she had transferred the loan funds back in June. She hasnt, for example, responded to our 
investigators request to see copy statements of that account. It is possible all the funds had 
become exhausted by then. And it seems Mrs P had told Barclays they were used to clear 
expenses incurred during the pandemic. So, the likelihood is there were no more funds to 
pay into the personal account to cover the direct debits that were pending. 
But I do think if that were the position, as seems likely, then it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for Mrs P to have taken steps to cancel future direct debit payments. 
In summary, the evidence Ive seen doesnt show that Barclays withdrawal of the bounce 
back loan proceeds from Mrs Ps account resulted in it becoming overdrawn. I am satisfied 
Barclays werent therefore obliged to pay the direct debits when they became due since 
there were no cleared funds in Mrs Ps account to do so. I do not find therefore that it was 
Barclays action in debiting the bounce back loan from Mrs Ps personal account that caused 
her direct debits to be returned unpaid. 
But Barclays did make errors in the way they dealt with Mrs Ps application. And whilst Im 
satisfied Barclays didnt act unfairly when rectifying the error, I can understand Mrs Ps 
concern about the overall events.
Barclays have told us Mrs Ps account hasnt incurred any debit interest or any charges for 
unpaid items. And as well as paying Mrs P £100 as a goodwill gesture, Barclays have 
acknowledged that their service to Mrs P has, at times, been poor  for which a further £250 
has been offered. I am satisfied the settlement offered by Barclays is fair. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am satisfied that the £100 Barclays Bank UK PLC have 
paid to Mrs P and the offer of a further £250 is fair and reasonable. 
My decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £250 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman