DRN-3716606
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited irresponsibly lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Shawbrook provided Mr T with a loan for £10,000 on 30 July 2018. The period of the loan 
was 60 months and the monthly repayment was £225.74. The loan was for part 
consolidation of his existing loans with other lenders. Mr T says that when he took out the 
loan he was in considerable debt and the loan only added to those debts. He could only 
sustain the payments by taking out new loans but has now fallen behind with the 
payments.
Shawbrook said that it carried out verification checks of his income and his existing credit. 
It took into account that Mr T was paying off one of his loans and part of other loans, and 
believes he kept information from it about his liabilities.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that Shawbrook had failed to 
take into account Mr Ts living expenses and hadnt accounted for two loans and an 
overdraft. He also noted that Shawbrook hadnt specified what loans were to be paid off. 
On that basis he said the loan was unaffordable.
Shawbrook said it was reasonable to accept Mr Ts word that he would be paying off loans, 
and said that its checks followed industry standards and complied with the Consumer 
Credit (CONC) rules set out in the handbook of the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority). It 
said that although one account was overdrawn, this was more than balanced by other 
current accounts it had seen. It believed Mr T had kept the statements for the overdrawn 
account from it.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Shawbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
T would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Shawbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Shawbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Shawbrook had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Shawbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mr T was borrowing a considerable sum, for an unsecured loan, over a long period. This 
represented a substantial commitment on his part. I think Shawbrook should have 
carried out a thorough assessment of Mr Ts finances.
The first thing to note is that according to the credit report, two loans werent accounted for. 
They werent that recent that they wouldnt have appeared on the record. And they were 
from established lenders so it seems unlikely that they wouldnt have appeared in the 
report from the agency Shawbrook used. The total repayments from those loans added 
about £398 to his existing loan repayments.
Mr T had a £3,600 overdraft which did show on the record. Allowing a 5% monthly payment 
of the balance on his overdraft, this meant that Mr Ts credit commitment were about 
£1,036, about 57% of his income of £1,812. This was before adding the cost of the new 
loan. Such a high commitment was unlikely to be affordable.
However Mr T did make it clear in his call with Shawbrook when applying for the loan that 
he intended to consolidate his existing loans. Ive noted that the additional loans Ive 
mentioned added up to about £10,000, so although I dont think he did pay them off, it 
might be reasonable for Shawbrook to have expected him to do this. But even taking £398 from his credit commitments the new loan repayment still has to be added back. This would 
bring the commitments to around £863, still about 48% of his income.
I have thought about, given that they didnt show in the credit report whether it would be 
reasonable to expect Shawbrook to know about the additional loans. The report clearly 
showed an overdraft of £3,600 on a current account. I note Shawbrook says it has a 
statement from another account which balances that out. It hasnt shown us that 
statement, but I think such a high figure for an overdraft should have alerted Shawbrook to 
look at the statements for that account. The loan repayments are clearly shown on that 
account. What is also shown is that Mr T spent substantial amounts of gambling on that 
account. I think if Shawbrook had looked at the statements for that account it would have 
been unlikely to have provided the loan.
Even if Im wrong in that respect, which I dont think I am, without the two loans and 
reducing the other loans by £10,000 might have released about £240. This would have 
produced a figure, including the new loan arrangements of about 35% credit commitments 
against income, still high. But in that event Shawbrook should have ensured that Mr T paid 
off the loans which it could have done directly before releasing funds to Mr T.
In respect of his disposable income, apart from his mortgage (which he paid half of, with 
his partner), Shawbrook didnt appear to take any account of his living expenses, which 
were around £1,338 (including £360 towards his mortgage). Even using the £863 figure for 
credit commitments which allows for the loan repayment and paying off two loans, this still 
would have left him with a negative disposal income of about £389.
I think that Shawbrook did do proportionate checks to assess the affordability of the loan. 
In my view those checks should have alerted it to check the statements for Mr Ts 
overdrawn account. Taking into account the proportion of credit against incomed and the 
disposable income I think the loan was unaffordable. And even if Shawbrook hadnt 
carried out that further check I still think the loan should have been assessed as 
unaffordable.
So I dont think that Shawbrook made a fair lending decision. It should refund all interest 
and charges, as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr T has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Shawbrook should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr T as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr T has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Shawbrook should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr T.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shawbrook to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Shawbrook Bank Limited to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman