DRN-3855659
The complaint
Mr G complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) should change the way it 
distributes prizes to holders of Premium Bonds. 
What happened
Mr G holds Premium Bonds with NS&I. He suggested it should eliminate some of the upper 
and lower prizes paid to bondholders, to improve the odds of more bondholders receiving a 
prize which exceeds the lowest amount payable.  
NS&I failed to respond to Mr G when he first raised his concerns. But when he followed the 
matter up, NS&I responded to say it would continue to offer the bonds in line with its terms 
and conditions. It reminded Mr G that hed accepted these terms when he first applied for his 
bonds. However, NS&I acknowledged it shouldve responded to his concerns more promptly, 
so it paid him £50 to apologise. 
Mr G was unhappy with NS&Is final response, so he referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. They werent persuaded NS&I had treated 
him unfairly. And they felt the way the business chose to offer its products was a matter for 
its own commercial judgement. 
As Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, the matters been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at the evidence in this case, Im satisfied NS&I has treated Mr G fairly.  
He holds bonds and has won prizes under the terms and conditions he accepted when he 
became a customer of NS&I. Theres no suggestion NS&I has deviated from its normal 
terms, or applied them to Mr G in a way that means hes treated less favourably than other 
bondholders. Mr Gs complaint is simply that NS&I hasnt made the changes he suggested. 
Mr G feels Premium Bonds would be a fairer and more attractive savings vehicle for 
bondholders if NS&I adopted his suggestions. But theres no requirement for NS&I to make 
changes simply because Mr G has asked them to. The way NS&I chooses to pay prizes is 
clearly outlined in the terms and conditions Mr G accepted when he became its customer. 
Whether NS&I chooses to make changes to those prizes is a matter for its own commercial 
judgement. 
If hes unhappy with the way NS&I distributes prizes, Mr G is free to choose a different 
savings provider offering different terms. But Im satisfied NS&Is decision to continue 
offering its products in line with its normal terms and conditions is fair in these 
circumstances. 
NS&I mistakenly delayed its response to Mr Gs concerns. But given the nature of his 
request, I think the written apology NS&I has given sufficiently addresses any impact this 
delay had on Mr G. I dont require NS&I to pay him any further compensation. 
Ive noted that more recently, Mr G has shared new concerns with our service about other 
ways he feels NS&Is prize distribution is unfair. But Im satisfied these concerns are 
separate enough from his initial complaint, that it wouldnt be reasonable of me to consider 
them without NS&I first being given the opportunity to resolve matters with Mr G directly. If 
Mr G wishes to pursue these concerns he should refer them to NS&I. Should he remain 
unhappy following receipt of the business final response, he may then approach our service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I do not require National Savings and 
Investments to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman