DRN-3397650
The complaint
Miss I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc took money from her account.
What happened
Miss I says she noticed that HSBC had taken about £300 from her credit card account 
without her permission or authority. She says there was no evidence of any transactions on 
her account statement and thought she had been the victim of fraud. Miss I says she spent 
some hours trying to raise a complaint and spoke to a number of HSBC staff. She says her 
health was affected by what took place and would like £2,000 compensation. She also 
complains about how her complaint was dealt with.
HSBC says Miss I lost her account card and so it couldnt charge a number of transactions 
she made before the card was lost. It says these amounted to about £300 and were made in 
May 2021. HSBC accepts that it applied the transactions in October 2021 and didnt tell Miss 
I it was doing so. It has apologised and offered £200 compensation as well as agreeing to 
look at this issue.
Miss I brought her complaint to us and our investigator accepted that HSBC ought to have 
told Miss I about the transactions but thought they were correctly charged. The investigator 
didnt think we could consider the complaint handling part of Miss Is complaint and thought 
the compensation offer appropriate.
Miss I doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation isnt sufficient for what took 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made an appropriate 
compensation offer and dont think Miss Is request for £2,000 is appropriate or realistic.
I accept that Miss I would have been concerned about the transactions that appeared on her 
account statement and appreciate that she was initially concerned that she had been the 
victim of fraud.  I also accept that HSBC ought to have told Miss I that it intended to add the 
transactions from May 2021 and why it couldnt do so due to the lost account card. It follows 
that I think this was a problem that could easily have been avoided and accept that Miss I 
was caused distress and inconvenience.
The only real issue for me to decide is the level of compensation and if HSBC should do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly 
apologised for what took place and gave Miss I an explanation for what took place in its 
letter of 30 November 2021. Im also satisfied that HSBC was entitled to add the transactions 
to Miss Is account as this was money spent by her.
I dont think Miss I suffered any real financial loss as a result of what took place and have 
explained that I think HSBC has fairly apologised as well as provided her with an 
explanation. I can also see that HSBC has said it will review its policy on this type of issue.
I appreciate Miss I spent some time bringing the complaint to HSBC attention and complains 
about how her complaint was later handled. As the investigator has explained complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity and not something this service can consider as part of 
this complaint. I find that HSBCs compensation offer is fair and reasonable and in line with 
what we would recommend for this type of moderate impact. Im satisfied Miss I received an 
explanation from HSBC about what took place within a relatively short time period and any 
impact would have been relatively moderate.
If Miss I wishes to accept HSBCs compensation offer, then it would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman