DRN-3151817
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs A bought solar panels for her home in June 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. And the contract being 
breached because the inverter stopped working after less than five years and is beyond 
repair - indicating it was not of sufficient quality.
Hitachi made an offer of settlement in respect of the misrepresentation. But didnt think it 
should pay to replace the inverter because Mrs A had not told it about this problem until 
more than five years after installation. Mrs A was unhappy with this and referred the 
complaint to this service.
Mrs As complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. They also thought that 
Hitachi should pay to replace the inverter, as it had stopped working within five years of 
installation  which was within the manufacturers warranty period  and because Mrs A had 
a reasonable expectation that it would be of satisfactory quality and function properly for a 
reasonable period.
Hitachi didnt agree. It felt that the problem with the inverter wouldnt have been covered by 
the warranty as it was not reported within five years of installation, so it should not have to 
pay for its replacement. 
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
In addition, I think that Hitachi should pay to replace the inverter. When Mrs A bought the 
inverter, she had the reasonable expectation that the goods supplied would be of suitable 
quality. Its reasonable to expect the inverter to last longer than it did, not least because the 
manufacturers warranty would cover it for up to 5 years. And also, because Hitachis 
engineer confirmed that an inverter would be expected to function properly for at least five 
years. So, I can only conclude that, because the fault developed within that period, the 
goods were not of suitable quality and as such the contract was breached. Because of this it 
falls to Hitachi to cover the cost of the replacement.
Ive thought carefully about what Hitachi said about when Mrs A notified it of the problem. 
But I dont think this is sufficient reason for me not to uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
This is because there is nothing to suggest that the cost of replacing the inverter was 
increased significantly by the delay. However, the delay will have impacted the electricity 
savings and Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments Mrs A received because it delayed the problem 
being resolved. So, Ive factored this into what Hitachi must do to put things right.
In summary, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mrs A fairly and she lost out because of this. And 
this means that Hitachi should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs As complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs A from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs A is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Hitachi needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs A by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mrs As loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Usually the recalculation would include allowance for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including electricity savings and payments received from the 
Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme. But, given that Mrs As solar panels stopped working when the 
inverter broke, she stopped receiving those benefits and will not do so until the inverter is 
replaced. 
Due to the delay in notification of the problem, Hitachi can factor in the energy savings and 
FIT payments that Mrs A is likely to have received between Mrs A noticing the problem and 
notifying Hitachi. But it should not make any deductions for any energy savings and FIT payments that would potentially have been received between the date of notification and the 
inverter being replaced  as I dont think the delays since notification are down to Mrs A. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs A have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs A accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs A has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs A has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Hitachi and Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs A paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs A paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Hitachi should also replace the inverter and reinstate Mrs As solar panel system to working 
order. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs A first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman