DRN-1976792
 
The complaint
Mr O complains about four instalment loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS). The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Os behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr O.
What happened
This complaint is about four short term loans LS provided to Mr O between 
January 2017 and April 2017. All the loans have been repaid. The loans were repayable by 
six monthly instalments. Mr Os lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 5/1/17 29/1/17 £550
2. 29/1/17 30/3/17 £950
3. 29/3/17 17/3/19 £490
4. 17/4/17 17/3/19 £440
LS said that it had carried out proper and proportionate affordability checks at the time that 
each loan was approved. It had asked Mr O for his monthly income and expenditure. It had 
used national average amounts for expenses and revised Mr Os stated expenditure 
upwards and this still resulted in a viable disposable income. LS had also made checks with 
the credit reference agency (CRA) and the CRA confirmed a rating which was satisfactory 
for all the loan obligations.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint should be upheld
Mr O disagreed. He said that the loans were overlapping and over a short period of time.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr O 
and to LS on 1 June 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when LS lent to Mr O the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important to say that LS was required to establish whether Mr O could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Os complaint.
LS had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr O. It had asked him for details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. Mr Os declared income was £3,400 for all the loans. Mr O 
had declared his expenditure as between £475 and £800 for all the loans but LS had 
increased the expenditure amounts to between £917 and £1,267. 
LS said that it had also checked Mr Os credit file before agreeing to the loans. Id seen brief 
results from LSs credit check.
Id seen Mr Os credit report and noted that this showed a number of payday loans. But I was 
aware that when a lender carried out a credit search, the information it saw didnt usually 
provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, not all of Mr Os accounts 
might have been identified by LSs credit check. So, this might have explained any 
differences between the information provided by LSs credit check and Mr Os actual 
situation.Loan 1 was for £550. I could see that LSs credit search showed that Mr O had nine active 
accounts and one delinquent account. I could also see that LS had increased the amount of 
Mr Os declared expenditure so it was aware that it couldnt rely on the amount hed 
declared. But I could also see that the repayments that Mr O needed to make were relatively 
modest compared to the income that hed declared to LS. The highest repayment amount for 
Loan 1 was £246.40. I didnt think the repayment amounts for Loan 1 were so large that it 
was obvious they wouldve caused Mr O financial difficulty.
So given Mr Os repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was his first loan with LS, 
overall I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to have asked him for the amount 
of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And overall at 
that stage, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr O was 
saying.  So I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr O.
Mr O had repaid Loan 1 early and had taken out Loan 2 on the date hed repaid Loan 1. Id 
noted that LSs credit check showed that Mr O had two delinquent accounts and that it had 
been a month since his most recent delinquent account. I could see that LS had increased 
the amount of Mr Os declared expenditure so it was aware that it couldnt rely on the 
amount hed declared. Id thought all this might have caused LS some concerns. And Id 
thought it might have been more concerned when Mr O applied for a loan of £1,500. LS 
appeared to have been concerned about this as it had provided Mr O with the significantly 
smaller loan amount of £950. The highest monthly loan repayment was around £403 and the 
repayments needed to be made over six months. Id thought all this should have prompted 
LS to do some additional checks such as asking Mr O for more information about his short 
term borrowing. As far as I could see it didnt do this.
So I needed to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Had it done so, it was likely that LS wouldve learnt that Mr O had at least three other 
outstanding short term loans with repayments to be made at the same time as Loan 2. Id 
seen these on Mr Os bank statements and credit report. Id thought if LS had made 
proportionate checks, it would have been clear to it that Mr O was facing significant 
problems managing his  money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 2 in a sustainable 
manner. So I didnt think LS should have given Mr O Loan 2.
Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr O had taken out Loan 3. This meant that his highest 
total monthly loan repayments would be around £534. Id noted that LSs credit check again 
showed that Mr O had two delinquent accounts and that it had been a month since his most 
recent delinquent account. I could also see that LS had substantially increased the amount 
of Mr Os declared expenditure so it was aware that it couldnt rely on the amount hed 
declared. Id thought all this might again have caused LS some concerns. I also noted that 
Mr O had applied for a loan of £550, but LS had provided Mr O with the lower amount of 
£490. Id thought all this should again have prompted LS to do some additional checks such 
as asking Mr O for more information about his short term borrowing. As far as I could see it 
didnt do this.
So I needed to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Had it done so, it was likely that LS wouldve learnt that Mr O had at least three other 
outstanding short term loans with repayments to be made at the same time as Loan 3. Id 
seen these on Mr Os bank statements and credit report. Id thought if LS had made 
proportionate checks, it would have been clear to it that Mr O was facing significant 
problems managing his money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 3 in a sustainable 
manner. So I didnt think LS should have given Mr O Loan 3.
Mr O had taken out Loan 4 around 19 days after hed taken out Loan 3 which was still 
outstanding when Loan 4 was taken out. Loan 4 was Mr Os fourth loan in less than four months. Id thought that LS might have been concerned that Mr O was becoming reliant on 
its loans. The highest total monthly loan repayments for Loans 3 and 4 would have been 
around £399. Id noted that LSs credit check again showed that Mr O had two delinquent 
accounts and that it had been a month since his most recent delinquent account. I could see 
that LS had again substantially increased the amount of Mr Os declared expenditure so it 
was aware that it couldnt rely on the amount hed declared.
So, Id thought by the time of Loan 4 it might have been proportionate for LS to have 
independently reviewed the true state of Mr Os finances. 
LS would also have seen from an independent review that Mr O was spending a significant 
percentage of his income on gambling and had at least three other outstanding short term 
loans with repayments to be made at the same time as Loan 4. Id seen all this on Mr Os 
bank statements and credit report. I thought if LS had made proportionate checks, it would 
have been clear to it that Mr O was facing significant problems managing his money and 
unlikely to have been able to repay Loan 4 in a sustainable manner. And as a responsible 
lender it wouldnt have agreed to lend Loan 4 to him.
 
Subject to any further representations by Mr O or LS my provisional decision was that LS 
needed to pay Mr O some compensation relating to Loans 2, 3 and 4. I said that LS should 
put things right as follows.
putting things right  what LS needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr O paid on Loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove all adverse entries about Loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mr Os credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr O a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr O responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with the outcome. 
LS responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr O and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint in part and that LS should take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr O paid on Loans 2, 3 and 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and3. Remove all adverse entries about Loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mr Os credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr O a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman