DRN-4138857
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) decided hed made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when he took out his car insurance policy and, as a result, theyve 
avoided his policy and declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen, so he reported this to AXA to start the claim process. AXA offered   
Mr B a settlement based on their valuation of Mr Bs car, but Mr B felt this was too low, so he 
asked AXA to reconsider their offer. AXA say, given the dispute on valuation, they referred 
the matter to their in-house engineers, and it was at this point they identified Mr Bs car had 
modifications which he hadnt declared when taking out the policy. AXA were of the view this 
was a careless qualifying misrepresentation, so they avoided the policy and declined the 
claim. Mr B complained about AXAs decision, and they responded and explained, when    
Mr B took out the policy, he said there were no modifications on his car. They said, if Mr B 
had declared the particular type of modifications on his car, this wouldnt have met their 
underwriting criteria so they wouldnt have offered a policy. And this is why they decided to 
avoid the policy and decline the claim.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought AXAs decision to decline the claim 
wasnt fair and reasonable and recommended they settle the claim and pay 8% simple 
interest on the settlement amount. She also recommended they remove the policy voidance 
recorded against Mr B. Mr B agreed but AXA disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
The relevant law AXA are referring to in this case when referring to misrepresentation is The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms or not at all, it is entitled to avoid the consumers 
policy. If the misrepresentation was careless  which is what AXA say is the case here, then 
to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not have offered the policy at all if it 
wasnt for the misrepresentation. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will 
not have to deal with any claims under it. 
AXA thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when, 
during the sales journey, he didnt disclose that his car had modifications. AXA say this 
doesnt meet their underwriting acceptability criteria, so they had to void the policy.
The first point Ive considered is whether Mr B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. AXA have provided screenshots of the sales journey and I can see Mr B 
was asked if his car had been modified, adapted and/or fitted with any optional extras such 
as changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels  and Mr B answered this as No. AXA say 
had Mr B answered this question Yes during the sales journey  as they believe he 
shouldve done  then they wouldnt have provided a quote and therefore wouldnt have 
appeared as an option for Mr B. 
 
So, Ive looked at Mr Bs circumstances to see whether he could reasonably have been 
expected to answer the question in the way AXA have described. Mr B says he bought the 
car second-hand and was of the understanding he was buying the standard model of the 
car. He says he wasnt aware any modifications had been carried out  which in any event 
were cosmetic and not performance enhancing. The screenshot of the sales journey shows, 
when answering the question above, Mr B was presented with a help text box which 
describes what factors a customer should consider to ensure they answer this question 
correctly. This says, A vehicle has been modified or adapted if its been changed from the 
manufacturers standard specification in any way. It then gives examples of what the 
business would consider as modifications and includes Changes to the bodywork, including 
spoilers and/or body kits. AXA have provided photos of Mr Bs car which they say show 
significant modifications  Ive seen the photos, and I agree. In particular, its clear the car 
manufacturers logo and branding has been replaced with the modification companys 
branding.        
While I acknowledge the differing opinions between Mr B and AXA about whether Mr B 
shouldve been aware there had been modifications to his car, I think the question was clear 
in that it asked whether a body kit had been fitted and whether the car had been changed 
from the standard specification. I believe therefore this question was more a matter of fact. 
So, even though Mr B and AXA have opposing views on whether it shouldve been clear, I 
think theres no doubt the car had been modified. And, I think AXAs suggestion for how Mr B 
shouldve answered this question is reasonable. So, given that I believe the question was 
clear and specific, I dont think Mr B took reasonable care when answering it. 
Theres been a misrepresentation here but an insurer will only be entitled to take action if its 
a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. So, Ive now considered whether 
the information provided by Mr B amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a difference to 
AXA. In other words, if the information AXA received had been accurate, would they have 
offered the insurance policy at all or only on different terms - including whether they wouldve 
charged more. 
AXA say the modifications carried out on Mr Bs car is an unacceptable risk based on their 
underwriting criteria. And, had this been disclosed by Mr B when applying for the policy, they 
wouldnt have offered cover. AXA have provided our service with their underwriting criteria and, having reviewed this, I think they wouldnt have provided cover had Mr B disclosed that 
modifications had been made to his car. I say this because the circumstances of Mr Bs 
case, when compared against the underwriting criteria, show that cover wouldve been 
declined. Im afraid I cant share more detail around the underwriting criteria but this 
information is commercially sensitive so I cant refer to specific parts of the underwriting 
criteria. 
So, taking this information into account, while I agree with AXAs view that Mr B made a 
qualifying misrepresentation and that this would normally give them the right to avoid the 
policy and decline the claim in accordance with CIDRA, I dont think allowing them to do this 
would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
This is because the information shows AXA made an offer to settle Mr Bs claim and, I 
believe in doing so, they have  in effect - affirmed the contract they had with him by relying 
on policy terms in dealing with his claim, despite the fact they knew or should have known 
Mr B had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I dont believe its 
appropriate for a consumer to be told a policy term applies when its clear theres been a 
misrepresentation, only to be told later, the insurer has changed their mind. 
Im satisfied AXA relied on the policy terms to deal with the claim after they knew Mr Bs car 
had modifications. I say this because the information provided by AXA shows they offered a 
settlement of £48,587  and this was based on a valuation obtained from Cazoo. In an email 
sent to our service, AXA say they reached the settlement by searching the Cazoo website 
and refer to the Cazoo valuation and say, this advertisement shows the [modification 
company] lettering. Ive seen the Cazoo website valuation and this contains photos of       
Mr Bs car. AXA have also provided a copy of the same photos which are shown on the 
Cazoo website and these clearly show the modification companys branding. I acknowledge 
AXA say they obtained these photos from a car sales advert, but its the same photos which 
appear on the Cazoo website  and its from these photos that AXA say the modifications 
are very visible. 
This means that technically AXA knew there was most likely a qualifying misrepresentation, 
which they ignored and instead started to deal with the claim by relying on the policy terms. 
This could mean that legally AXA affirmed the contract they had with Mr B and waived their 
right to rely on any misrepresentation hed made. Although the case law Ive seen on the 
affirmation of insurance contracts pre-dates CIDRA. And the obligations of consumers and 
insurers were different prior to CIDRA. However, I think it is appropriate to apply the principle 
of affirmation in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
    
This means I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for AXA to be 
allowed to rely on a qualifying misrepresentation made by Mr B when he took out the policy, 
having ignored this originally and gone on to deal with his claim by relying on the policy 
terms. This is because the fact they started to deal with the claim suggested they werent 
concerned about the misrepresentation. And I think they instead elected to affirm the 
contract they had with Mr B and waive their right to rely on the misrepresentation. And 
instead they relied on the terms and conditions of the policy by valuing and offering to settle 
Mr Bs claim. 
AXA say Mr Bs car was stolen and unrecovered so they didnt see or inspect the car to be 
able to see there were modifications. They say, initially, they were entirely reliant on the 
information provided by Mr B. I do acknowledge this point, but as mentioned above, the 
Cazoo website, from where AXA obtained their valuation, shows photos of Mr Bs car, so Im 
not persuaded they were entirely reliant on the information Mr B provided. The information 
shows there was independent evidence available to AXA  and by their own admission, an 
advertisement which shows the modification companys name.  I note AXA say, at claims stage, they deal with all claims in good faith but theres no 
guarantee of payment. And if they later find out a misrepresentation has been made  such 
as this case  they reserve the right to react and investigate accordingly. AXA say the 
valuation was made on a without prejudice basis as it is subject to them receiving certain 
information, this includes an image of the V5C and any car keys. They also say the use of 
this term is used to protect the interests of parties during negotiations by ensuring anything 
said or written during those discussions cant be used against them. 
There needs to be certainty for consumers and insurers need to act when they find out if 
they know about a misrepresentation. The only exception might be where an insurer makes 
it very clear theyre dealing with a claim while they investigate a potential qualifying 
misrepresentation, i.e. theyve effectively reserved their right to avoid the policy. In this case, 
Ive seen the email sent to Mr B with the settlement offer and, while this does say the offer is 
being made on a without prejudice basis, its followed up by saying AXA will raise payment 
once they receive, and are satisfied with, the V5C information and car keys. This suggests 
the settlement is conditional on these items being received and not subject to the outcome of 
any ongoing investigation. Most importantly, the email doesnt suggest theyre dealing with 
the claim while investigating a potential qualifying misrepresentation. 
AXA say, if theyd made the offer after knowing about the misrepresentation, then they 
appreciate this could be seen as affirmation of the contract. But they say the offer was made 
before they were aware, so there cant be any affirmation of the contract when they had no 
knowledge of the misrepresentation at the point the offer was made. AXA say, it was only 
when their in-house engineers were appointed that they inadvertently came across the 
original advert for Mr Bs car  and this is when they discovered the car had modifications. 
AXA say, its only fair to apply the rule of affirmation if the facts have not fundamentally 
changed between the time the offer is made and the time they declined the claim. They 
argue, in this case, the facts had fundamentally changed. AXA have also described the 
process followed by their claims handler when valuing the car and the parameters of the 
search they carried out.   
Ive carefully considered AXAs points here, but Im not persuaded there has been a 
fundamental change between what AXA knew at the time the valuation was carried out and 
when they declined the claim. I accept AXAs point that, given Mr Bs car was stolen and 
unrecovered, they couldnt inspect the car or arrange for photos to be taken, and this 
wouldve highlighted the modifications. But, theres no dispute AXA used the Cazoo motor-
trade guide to arrive at their settlement offer  and, as already mentioned above, this site 
shows photos which clearly show the modifications. 
I acknowledge AXA say the claims handler had no reason to look at the original advert, but 
there are a series of photos available on the Cazoo website when carrying out a valuation 
search against Mr Bs car  which are the same photos on the car sales advert. And its 
these photos which AXA say were used by their in-house engineers when assessing the 
modifications. I therefore believe, its more likely than not, these photos wouldve appeared 
when AXA carried out a valuation. So, Im not persuaded there has been a fundamental 
change.  
In summary, while I think Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation when he took out his 
policy with AXA, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AXA to settle 
Mr Bs claim to the true valuation of Mr Bs car  this includes the modifications. This is on 
the basis they waived their right to rely on the misrepresentation and elected to affirm the 
contract they had with Mr B. AXA should also pay interest at the rate we normally award - 
8% simple - on the settlement amount. AXA should also remove any record of the 
misrepresentation and voidance from any internal and external databases. 
 I wish to reassure AXA Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that its unfair for AXA to rely on misrepresentation to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim, after theyd affirmed the contract. So they should settle Mr Bs claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. The claim should be settled on the 
basis of a true valuation of Mr Bs car, including the modifications. AXA should also pay 8% 
simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of the original settlement offer to the 
date of settlement. AXA should also remove any record of the misrepresentation and 
voidance from any internal and external databases. AXA should provide Mr B with a 
certificate showing any taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman