DRN-3962344
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr S opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in July 2012. Its not clear what his initial 
credit limit was  possibly £10,000 - but it was raised to £12,000 a few months later in 
November 2012. In June 2015 it was increased to £15,000 and in January 2017 there was a 
further increase to £16,000.  
Mr S defaulted on his credit card in 2017. Mr S says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by 
providing him with the credit card and when it increased his limit. He says he had a low 
income and was unable to afford the repayments. He says if Barclaycard had done adequate 
checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a 
reasonable length of time. 
Barclaycard says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr S and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr S  and when it increased his credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. On the basis of the 
information available to them, they didnt think Barclaycard ought reasonably have thought 
there was an indication the credit was unaffordable for Mr S, either at the point of account 
opening or at the point of the later credit limit increases.
 
Mr S disagreed. He said he was on a low income and was heavily indebted elsewhere and 
that if Barclaycard had made sufficient checks it would have realised he couldnt afford the 
credit.
As Mr S disagreed the case was passed to me to make a decision. When I reviewed the 
case I came to a different conclusion. I thought that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased Mr 
Ss credit limit beyond £12,000. I proposed a settlement which was agreed by both parties.
Since that settlement was agreed, Mr S has reported that he has had difficulty 
communicating with Barclaycard and that he is not satisfied with the way Barclaycard has 
calculated what is due to him. 
This service does not have a role in calculating settlement payments. And Mr S hasnt 
explained what he thinks was wrong with the way Barclaycard calculated the amount. To 
provide Mr S with an enforceable decision, I have completed a final decision with replicates 
my findings in my informal provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ss complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Ss income, the total amount Mr S borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr S had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
The account was opened over ten years ago, so it is not surprising that Barclaycard doesnt 
have a record of the checks it completed at the time  or of the checks it conducted relatively 
early in its lending relationship with Mr S. Mr S hasnt been able to provide any records of his 
financial situation at the time either, so I dont have any evidence to suggest that the original 
lending decision wasnt fair or that the credit wasnt affordable for Mr S. Similarly, I dont 
have any evidence to suggest that the credit limit increase to £12,000 in November 2012 
was unaffordable either. I have seen copies of Mr Ss credit card statements from around 
this time and there is nothing to alert Barclaycard that Mr S might have had trouble meeting 
his repayments. He had used a 0% balance transfer facility, making five transfers in the first 
month, and was making minimum repayments on the balance. He didnt generally use the 
credit card for purchase transactions, although he did use the card to transfer cash sums to 
another account. 
 
However, in June 2015 Barclaycard increased Mr Ss credit limit from £12,000 to £15,000. 
Again, I dont have a copy of any of the checks Barclaycard made. These start a few months 
later in October 2015. But I dont think Mr Ss financial situation would have changed 
significantly for the better in those months, so I think its reasonable to consider that those 
checks give a good picture of Mr Ss financial situation in June 2015.
 
Those checks showed that Mr S had external credit card debt of about £17,000 as well as 
loans totalling around £18,000 (not including Mr Ss mortgage). Mr S has told us that his 
monthly net income in 2015 was no more than £1,350 and that for six months of 2015 (which 
had to overlap with the credit limit increase in June 2015) he was on a three day week taking 
home only about £850. Mr Ss existing credit (not just available credit) amounted to over two 
years net income for Mr S. 
I think this information alone ought to have prompted Barclaycard to verify Mr Ss income 
and expenditure before it increased his credit limit. Again, I dont have detailed information 
about Mr Ss circumstances at the time other than what Mr S has told me  that he was 
paying at least 50% of his income each month just to meet his minimum repayments on his 
debt. I can also see from his Barclaycard statements that he was continuing to only make 
minimum repayments even though his 0% interest period had expired. And Mr S had used 
the card to transfer cash elsewhere  an expensive way to access cash and likely used to service debt elsewhere. In the month before the credit limit increase Mr S paid to make two 
transfers to his bank for a total of £6,000  over four months income for Mr S.
So while Mr S wasnt missing payments anywhere, I think it was clear that Mr S would have 
been paying a very significant proportion of his income each month to meet repayments on 
unsecured debt. I think if Barclaycard had asked Mr S about his income and expenditure it 
would have been clear that he could not sustainably afford an increase in his credit limit. I 
think Mr S lost out as a result of Barclaycards decision to increase his credit limit. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Ss credit limit from £12,000, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mr S has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think 
he should pay this back. Therefore I direct Barclaycard to:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £12,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Barclaycard should also remove all adverse information 
recorded from 1 June 2015 regarding this account from Mr Ss credit file
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £12,000, Barclaycard 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. 
Once Mr S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 1 June 2015 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file.
If Barclaycard has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above 
is carried out promptly. Barclaycard has explained that the debt was sold on, so the 
latter option is most likely.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint in relation to the increase in credit limit above £12,000. I direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as described above. 
If Mr S is unhappy with the way this is approached by Barclays Bank UK PLC then he must 
liaise directly with the business or seek enforcement of this decision through the courts. This 
service cannot help him any further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman