DRN-2752029
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled two claims 
she made under her household appliance repair plan.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim under her household appliance policy for her fridge freezer. The repair 
parts werent available, so D&G offered a replacement. Mrs B accepted the replacement with 
the knowledge that there was a four-week wait. 
During the wait time, Mrs B asked D&G for updates but it couldnt confirm availability. When 
it became apparent the fridge freezer may not be available at all, D&G offered other models. 
Mrs B chose a different, higher specification appliance than her original one and D&G 
agreed to waive the £150 upgrade fee. Because of confusion around the delivery date, Mrs 
B was without a fridge freezer for five days, so D&G offered compensation of £237 for the 
inconvenience caused and the lost food.
While waiting for her fridge freezer claim to go through, Mrs B bought a new household 
appliance policy with D&G to cover her vacuum cleaner. Around six weeks later, she made a 
claim and D&G arranged collection of the cleaner for a manufacturers repair. Mrs B 
contacted D&G after the two weeks repair time had passed, but an update wasnt available 
from the manufacturer. D&G said it would write off the vacuum cleaner and offered Mrs B a 
replacement. 
Shortly after D&G ordered the replacement, Mrs B called to follow up on the claim. Shed 
contacted the supplier which said it had no record of an order. D&Gs agent explained the 
process and confirmed the order was in place. But Mrs B had changed her mind about the 
vacuum cleaner she wanted and asked for a different brand. D&G explained that there would 
be a £40 upgrade fee, but Mrs B didnt think she should have to pay it because of the 
inconvenience and delays shed experienced. After some discussion, D&G agreed to waive 
the fee. At this point, it also confirmed it had paid £10 for its failure to return one of Mrs Bs 
calls. Mrs B told D&G she was satisfied with this outcome.
Despite receiving the compensation for her fridge freezer and vacuum cleaner, Mrs B 
remained unhappy with the way D&G had handled her claims and her complaints. D&G 
thought it had done enough and didnt offer anything further.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She acknowledged that thered been 
service shortfalls, but she thought D&G had done enough to put matters right.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said shed experienced significant delays because of the way D&G 
handled her claims, and her health had been affected. Mrs B said her complaint was about 
the level of service provided by D&G rather than the logistics of the claim, and more should 
be done to address the unacceptable delays. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, Mrs B said that she broadly agrees with the timeline of events, but she doesnt think 
appropriate weight has been given to the delays D&G caused. She emphasised that the 
matter had affected her health; caused her significant inconvenience and distress, and she 
felt that the way D&G handled her claims was unprofessional. Mrs B is also unhappy that 
D&G didnt progress her complaint as it shouldve done according to the complaint handling 
process.
Complaint handling
Mrs B says D&G didnt progress her complaint in line with its complaint handling process. 
This issue is about the timescales within which D&G should acknowledge, respond to, and 
refer a complaint in line with complaint handling standards. To be clear, my remit is to 
consider complaints about regulated activities. As complaint handling is not a regulated 
activity, this issue falls outside my remit. For that reason, I wont be addressing this issue 
directly. 
Fridge Freezer
Mrs B is unhappy with the delays and incorrect information given throughout her claim for 
her fridge freezer. As the general timeline of events isnt disputed, Ive looked at the 
evidence to see whether D&G was responsible for delays or any customer service issues 
relating to the claim. 
D&G supplied a replacement fridge freezer just over seven weeks after Mrs B made her 
claim. Ive listened to the first call recording and D&G said more than once that the model 
wasnt in stock; thered be at least a four to six week wait time; there was no guarantee stock 
would become available, and other models were available to choose from. Mrs B said she 
preferred to wait for the one shed chosen, so Im satisfied that Mrs B was aware from the 
outset that shed be without an appliance for several weeks. Therefore, its unreasonable to 
hold D&G responsible for the full period of delay.
Mrs B contacted D&G after two weeks for an update. Ive listened to the call and D&G 
confirmed the above information again for her. Mrs B said shed continue to wait for the 
model she wanted. While theres nothing wrong with Mrs B seeking an update, she did so 
within the period D&G had told her the appliance wouldnt be available. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable that D&G hadnt contacted Mrs B because it didnt have any new 
information, and it hadnt reached the end of the minimum time it had already said shed be 
waiting for that particular appliance.
Mrs Bs next contact with D&G was four weeks later (six weeks after she made her claim) 
because shed received a confusing message about the delivery and its cancellation. Its at 
this point that I think Mrs B had cause for complaint. If the replacement fridge freezer had 
been available for delivery as implied by the message, and it had been delivered at an 
agreed time, then I think the claim wouldve been settled. However, Mrs B had sold the 
fridge freezer shed been using temporarily on the understanding that her new appliance was 
to be delivered. But the appliance wasnt available, and it wasnt being delivered, so I can 
understand Mrs Bs frustration at being told there was a delivery date.Ive listened to the three calls between Mrs B and D&G relating to this part of the claim. D&G 
explained that the appliance still wasnt available, but it accepted that it was responsible for 
the confusion caused and, therefore, the days Mrs B would be without a fridge freezer. D&G 
offered Mrs B alternative models which could be delivered within a few days, which she 
accepted, and agreed a delivery date. Understandably Mrs B was upset at the 
inconvenience caused and she complained about that and the delays. D&G offered 
compensation of £137 for her time without an appliance and a further £100 for the loss of 
food. Mrs B didnt think it was enough.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances regarding the fridge freezer, but I cant 
reasonably say that D&G needs to do any more. Thats because Mrs B chose to wait up to 
six weeks for the model she wanted, so most of the delay was outside D&Gs control. 
Therefore, Ive only looked at the inconvenience, incorrect information and delays D&G 
couldve prevented. During a five-day period, D&G:
confirmed delivery;
cancelled delivery, and
told Mrs B the appliance wasnt available, despite having set a delivery date.
Because of this, Mrs B was without a fridge freezer for five days and her food was wasted. 
D&G offered £100 for the wasted food and compensation of £137 for the delay. I also note 
that it waived the £150 upgrade fee for the higher specification appliance it provided. 
Mrs B doesnt think the total of £237 compensation and £150 waived fee is enough for the 
inconvenience caused. I realise that Mrs B will be thinking about the overall delay of seven 
weeks to settle her claim, but, as Ive explained, most of that delay was because she 
preferred to wait for a particular appliance. D&G is only directly responsible for five days of 
delay, wasted food, and inaccurate information and Im satisfied that its offer was fair. I wont 
be asking D&G to do any more in respect of Mrs Bs complaint about her fridge freezer 
claim.
Vacuum cleaner
Mrs B claimed under her policy for a vacuum cleaner repair. D&G arranged collection of the 
cleaner and said it would be with the manufacturer for up to two weeks. Two weeks later, 
Mrs B asked for an update. Its not clear what happened to the vacuum cleaner, but D&G 
couldnt trace any record of it or identify any repair being carried out by the manufacturer. It 
wrote off the appliance and offered Mrs B a replacement. She chose the same brand from 
the models offered. Its understandable that Mrs B wouldve been inconvenienced and upset 
that her vacuum cleaner was, apparently, lost. But I think D&Gs actions here wouldve put 
her back in the position she was in before making a claim on her policy. I think thats 
reasonable.
Mrs B checked with the supplier about the delivery date for her replacement vacuum 
cleaner, but she was told there was no record of the order. She complained to D&G. Having 
listened to the call its clear to me that D&G tried to explain to Mrs B that the existing process 
meant the order could only be checked by emailing a specific contact. D&G confirmed the 
vacuum cleaner was on order. While the process may have been confusing, I dont think 
D&G did anything wrong. Thats because it wouldnt necessarily have expected Mrs B to 
check with its supplier directly, rather than contacting it for an update. 
At this point, Mrs B asked to change the order. D&G offered a range of models and Mrs B 
chose a different brand and higher specification. Despite initially refusing, D&G agreed to 
Mrs Bs request to waive the £40 upgrade fee for the time she was without an appliance. 
Although D&G couldve done more in the first place to keep track of Mrs Bs vacuum cleaner 
repair, Im satisfied that the subsequent action is fair. Mrs B knew shed be without her 
cleaner for up to two weeks, so I dont think D&G needs to compensate for that time as its expected that thered be some inconvenience while an appliance is repaired. Mrs B changed 
her mind about the type of vacuum cleaner she wanted around four days after choosing the 
replacement. Her new cleaner was delivered two days after she confirmed her choice. So, I 
think, here, D&G was responsible for a week of delays at the most. In light of this, I think it 
was reasonable that D&G waived the £40 upgrade fee, but I dont think an additional week 
without a vacuum cleaner warrants anything more. 
Mrs B said she had to travel for half an hour each way, every day to collect a vacuum 
cleaner and then return it to her family. She said this was because of health concerns. While 
I sympathise with Mrs B for this inconvenience, I cant fairly hold D&G responsible for the 
costs she incurred in making these trips. Thats because she hasnt provided any evidence 
to substantiate them; any medical evidence which shows that the trips were necessary, and 
she didnt bring this to D&Gs attention when she made her claim.
Given that Mrs B had a new, upgraded vacuum cleaner, and D&G had waived the upgrade 
fee, I dont think theres anything more it shouldve done to compensate her for the additional 
week without a vacuum cleaner.
Customer Service
In total, Ive listened to nine calls between the parties, and I havent identified any evidence 
of D&G treating Mrs B unfairly. That said, its clear from one call that Mrs B was unhappy, 
and she raised every issue of complaint from each of her two claims. It was during this call 
that D&G offered Mrs B £237 compensation for her fridge freezer complaint, and confirmed 
that shed also been paid £10 for a failure to call her back. D&G also agreed to refund £6.10, 
which was one of the two policy payments shed made for her vacuum cleaner. However, 
D&G wouldnt agree to a further payment when Mrs B said it could do better than £237.
The call itself was long and unproductive, and its clear that both parties became 
disheartened with the conversation. Mrs B wasnt happy with D&Gs response to her request 
for escalation to a manager or her requests for further compensation. While I think the call 
couldve gone better, I dont think its fair to ask D&G to pay any more than it already has. Ill 
summarise why, here.
Overall, I think D&G was responsible for five days delay, inconvenience and food waste in 
respect of the fridge freezer claim, and a week of delay and inconvenience for the vacuum 
cleaner claim. Mrs B says her health was affected but without any evidence I can only fairly 
consider the inconvenience and upset caused by these delays. In response, D&G offered a 
total compensation amount of £253.10 in cash and waived upgrade fees of £190. Mrs B also 
received the two upgraded appliances. While I understand that Mrs B may not think thats 
enough for the overall time she was without appliances, as Ive explained here, I cant fairly 
hold D&G responsible for her decision to wait for specific models, which was the biggest 
contributing factor to the delays. 
Im satisfied that D&G has fairly compensated Mrs B for the inconvenience and upset 
caused, so I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman