DRN-3170221
The complaint
Mr E complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down his private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr E took out the policy with AXA on 6 April 2020 on a continued personal medical 
exclusions basis. That meant the moratorium under Mr Es previous policy transferred 
across to his AXA policy. 
Though when Mr E took out the policy, he was also asked some medical questions by AXA. 
Based on his answers, AXA accepted him for cover. 
Mr E then made a claim for back pain. AXA thought Mr E ought to have disclosed his back 
pain when he took out the policy, as well as rheumatoid arthritis. It applied retrospective 
exclusions for both conditions. That meant Mr Es claim for his back pain was turned down. 
Mr E brought a complaint about AXAs decision to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr E had failed to 
take reasonable care when taking out the policy, and concluded that it had been fair for AXA 
to turn down the claim.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
Before taking out the AXA policy, Mr E held a private medical insurance policy with another 
insurer (that Ill call Insurer Z). Mr E had taken out that policy on a moratorium basis on 6 
March 2018. That meant he didnt have any cover for pre-existing conditions unless hed 
been trouble-free for two years.
As Mr E had a pre-existing condition of rheumatoid arthritis, that meant this condition fell 
under the moratorium and so he didnt have cover for it with Insurer Z. He was aware hed 
only have cover for it with AXA if he had a two-year trouble-free period.
When Mr E applied for the AXA policy (via his broker), he was asked some medical 
questions. One of those asked:
Have you had any treatment in hospital or consulted a specialist in the last 12 months?
Mr Es answer was no. 
I understand the application was completed by Mr Es broker on his behalf, but Mr E accepts 
his broker asked him this question, and that his answer was no. Though in any event, I see 
that AXA sent Mr E a copy of the questions that were asked, and answers given. This also 
explained that a specialist meant any doctor other than a GP.
Im satisfied the above question was clear. The next point for me to consider is whether Mr E 
failed to take reasonable care when answering this question.
Mr E was under the care of a specialist (Dr S) for his rheumatoid arthritis. He says he had a 
routine appointment with Dr S in relation to his rheumatoid arthritis on 27 September 2019. 
Mr E accepts that he answered the question incorrectly because of this, but explains that he 
didnt think he needed to tell AXA about his appointment with Dr S. That was because he 
says he knew that his rheumatoid arthritis would fall under the moratorium and wouldnt be 
covered anyway.
Mr E says that when he met Dr S in September 2019, he told him that hed experienced 
some discomfort in his lower back due to a fall. Mr E says he thought it might be related to 
his rheumatoid arthritis, but Dr S reassured him that rheumatoid arthritis doesnt affect the 
spine. He says he didnt specifically consult Dr S about his back pain, only that it came up in 
conversation.
Ive looked at Dr Ss letter dated 30 September 2019. This says that Mr E rang the 
rheumatology advice line as he was complaining about tenderness, especially in his lower 
back. Mr E had requested a steroid injection, and explained that hed had a fall around two 
weeks earlier. Dr S recommended that Mr E take painkillers for a week, and if this didnt 
help, then a steroid injection may be appropriate.
This doesnt indicate that Mr Es back pain only came up in conversation. Instead, it seems 
that Mr E called the rheumatology advice line specifically about his back pain, and received 
advice from Dr S about this. Whilst I appreciate Mr E thought his back pain may have been 
related to his rheumatoid arthritis, he explains that Dr S reassured him that it wasnt. I think it 
was therefore reasonable for AXA to say that Mr E had consulted a specialist about his back 
pain (and based on what Mr E says about the discussion with Dr S, also about rheumatoid 
arthritis). Consequently, I find that Mr E didnt take reasonable care when answering the 
question and that there was misrepresentation. 
AXA says that if it had known about this, then it wouldve applied an exclusion for back 
trouble (as well as an exclusion for rheumatoid arthritis). Im therefore satisfied that AXA has 
shown that Mr Es misrepresentation was qualifying. I agree with our investigator that Mr E 
didnt intend to deliberately mislead AXA, however, as he didnt take reasonable care when 
answering the question, his misrepresentation would be categorised under CIDRA as 
careless. That means that AXA can retrospectively apply the exclusion for back trouble to 
the policy.
Although I understand Mr Es back pain in 2020 was thought to be different to the back pain 
he was experiencing in 2019, it would still fall under the back exclusion that AXA says it 
wouldve applied if it had known of Mr Es previous back pain when the policy was taken out. 
Therefore, AXA was entitled to turn down Mr Es later claim for back pain as this fell under 
the exclusion.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman