DRN-4212904
The complaint
Ms Y says that Pay Later Financial Services Limited, trading as Fly Now Pay Later, has 
treated her unfairly in relation to a loan which paid for flights.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms Y took out a fixed sum loan agreement from Pay Later Financial Services 
Limited to pay an intermediary for the arrangement and supply of flights supplied by an 
airline. The flight tickets were non-refundable. These international flights were due to fly in 
December 2020 but due to the Pandemic and government advice Ms Y decided not to go 
and cancelled the booking. The Intermediary said that due to the circumstances and as a 
gesture of goodwill Ms Y could have a credit for the value she paid. Ms Y and the 
Intermediary have since liaised about rebooking the flights and using this credit but due to 
variances in the costing of such flights the credit hasnt been utilised. Ms Y has recently 
been asking for a refund of the money paid as she says she cant afford to lose that money 
and she currently has no need for such flights. 
So she complained to Pay Later Financial Services Limited (PLFS for short). It replied that 
the Intermediary had said to it that no refund was due, but she could rebook. So PLFS felt it 
hadnt done anything wrong. But Ms Y wants a refund, so she brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator felt PLFS didnt have to do anymore. And Ms Y remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Y used her PLFS loan to pay for these connecting flights (this was flights only-not a 
package). This meant that if certain criteria are met, PLFS can have certain responsibilities 
to Ms Y which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of 
allowing Ms Y to hold PLFS liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in 
relation to the agreement made. In essence PLFS can be held responsible for a like claim 
as that which Ms Y would have against the intermediary.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about PLFS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Ms Y fairly. This decision isnt about the 
Intermediary or the Airline, which arent within this Services remit for complaints about S75. I 
hope this crucial distinction is clear.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Intermediary. However I 
dont think I have to decide on the required relationship requirement (this dispute meets the 
financial limits requirements) because I dont think it makes a difference to the overall 
conclusion. Ill explain why.
For PLFS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
Intermediary either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Ms Y 
which was untrue and that led to loss.
Ms Y says she couldnt use the flights due to the government restrictions that were in place. 
But neither of the Intermediary, the airline or PLFS were responsible for these restrictions. 
The Intermediary provided the services that Ms Y agreed to and paid for, namely the 
provision of flight information and arranging the flights purchase. Whether or not Ms Y could 
or couldnt fly, the restrictions were not the Airlines responsibility or the Intermediary or 
PLFS. I can also see on the ticket confirmation that the flights were non-refundable. And the 
evidence shows that the flights took place. So Ms Y has no contractual basis to get a refund 
here.
I appreciate Ms Y points to the credit voucher. But this was only a gesture of goodwill, and 
the Intermediary told this service it was willing to help with Ms Y around the booking but 
noted that there would be charges liable due to Ms Y cancelling the booking. And as it was a 
gesture of goodwill, and that Ms Y cancelled the non-refundable tickets there is no breach of 
contract or misrepresentation which PLFS is liable for.
I also appreciate that Ms Y will argue the pandemic wasnt her fault and she couldnt fly 
because of the government restrictions. But neither the pandemic nor restrictions were 
PLFS fault either. And I see no persuasive reason why it should bear the costs for these 
non-refundable tickets when it hasnt done anything wrong.
Im not persuaded that PLFS has treated Ms Y unfairly here. Just because Ms Y has lost out, 
it doesnt mean it is fair for PLFS to cover the cost of these flights. It has to have done 
something wrong to make it fair that it bears this cost. And Im satisfied it hasnt done so. So 
this complaint doesnt succeed.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Ms Ys arguments. She says shes got a gut 
feel that the Airline has refunded the intermediary. But she accepts she doesnt have any 
evidence of this. However I can see the Intermediary confirming it cancelled the booking and 
the tickets show they were non-refundable. So Im not persuaded that the Airline did refund 
the Intermediary on the evidence available.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Ms Y wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Ms Ys avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that PLFS has done anything wrong in dealing with the 
issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Ms Y has said, Im not persuaded 
PLFS has treated Ms Y unfairly. So unfortunately for Ms Y her complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against says Pay Later 
Financial Services Limited trading as Fly Now Pay Later. It has nothing further to do in 
respect of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman