DRN-2397484
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly settled a claim hes made 
on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B is a named driver on his wifes motor insurance policy with UKI, issued under one 
of its trading names. As UKI is ultimately responsible for the complaint, Ill refer to it 
throughout.
He was involved in an accident in September 2018. Mr B says a driver jumped a red 
light and crashed into him. The police attended the scene and the accident was 
witnessed by a number of people.
He contacted UKI to report the accident and passed on the police accident reference 
and the details of a witness. He complained to UKI saying it was slow to contact the 
police and the witness and about a lack of updates on the claim. UKI agreed it hadnt 
chased up the parties as it should have done and awarded him £275 in compensation. 
Mr B was then contacted by solicitors acting for the third-party drivers insurance 
company explaining it was holding him responsible for the accident and was seeking to 
recover the amount of the claim from him. The third-party driver had given their 
insurance company a different version of events, blaming Mr B for the accident.
UKI attempted to obtain witness statements a number of times but was unsuccessful. It 
also wasnt able to obtain a copy of a police report despite asking for it. So, as there 
were conflicting stories about the incident and in the absence of evidence to support Mr 
Bs version of events, it eventually settled the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. 
Mr B wasnt happy as he was certain the crash was the fault of the other driver and he 
said the witness had been willing to give a statement to back this up. He was also 
concerned about impact the 50/50 liability split would have on his no claims bonus and 
his insurance premiums.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said UKI had made reasonable efforts to obtain a witness statement and a police report, 
albeit unsuccessful. Because of this she was satisfied UKI had taken account of the 
available evidence before deciding to settle the claim as it did. She was also satisfied the 
£275 UKI paid Mr B for the delays was fair.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role or the role of this Service to decide who was responsible for causing an 
accident, as thats the role of the courts. Our role is to see if UKI came to its decision on 
how to settle the claim reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
So my starting point is to look at what those terms and conditions say. Under section 3 
of the General Conditions it explains:
Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
b. We are entitled to:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in 
your name, or in the name of any other person covered by the policy
So, Im satisfied UKI is entitled to settle this claim as it wishes. This is common feature 
across motor insurance policies. But Id still expect UKI to apply these terms fairly and 
reasonably. So Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair UKI settled the claim 50/50, 
given the evidence it had available at the time. 
Mr B provided UKI with details of the witness who saw the accident and the police who 
attended the scene. Its clear from UKIs files it made multiple attempts to contact the 
witness. I know Mr B says she responded to him when he made contact but Im satisfied 
that, for reasons I wont speculate on, she didnt respond to UKIs enquiries. And I dont 
think it would be fair to hold UKI responsible for lack of engagement from a potential 
witness.
When UKI contacted the police, it was told a report isnt always completed following an 
accident and, in this case, as driver details were exchanged at the time and there were 
no injuries, no report had been written up. So I cant see any impact of UKI not 
contacting the police earlier than it did as ultimately no report had been produced.
In the end, there was only the conflicting explanations of Mr B and the third-party driver, 
each blaming the other for the incident. And there was no corroborating evidence to 
back up either story so it wasnt possible to conclude which version of events was more 
likely and therefore which driver was to responsible for the accident.  
Because of this, UKI settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. Im satisfied UKI took account of 
the available evidence in reaching this decision and I consider it a reasonable course of 
action in the circumstances as well as in line with its policy terms.
UKI has acknowledged it could have kept Mr B better informed during the claim and 
could have chased things up more frequently than it did and I agree. Overall, I think the 
£275 its already paid Mr B is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate him for these 
shortcomings in its service.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking UKI to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman