DRN-2004059
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was unhappy that Calpe settled another drivers claim against his policy for repairs and 
personal injury. He thought the claim was exaggerated. He wanted his own car inspected for 
further damage. And he was unhappy as he said his premium had increased following the 
claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Calpe 
had reasonably investigated the claim and settled it, as it was entitled to do by the policys 
terms and conditions. He thought it was too late for Calpe to inspect Mr Ms car for damage 
caused by the incident. He thought Calpe had reasonably relied on Mr Ms report of minimal 
damage to his car. He thought Calpe had deducted the cost of a new number plate and grill 
from Mr Ms excess. And he thought Mr Ms premium hadnt increased at renewal. 
Mr M replied that he thought the other driver was uninsured to drive his car. He thought his 
damage should have been inspected. And he thought Calpe should have further investigated 
the personal injury claim. Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe said the other drivers solicitors notified it that Mr M had hit the rear of his stationary 
car. Mr M told Calpe that he wasnt looking at the road at the time. Mr M said he didnt know 
if hed rolled into the other car or if it had reversed into him. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr M the same as someone else in his 
position. 
I think Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said wed expect Calpe to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision on liability.
I can see that Calpe asked Mr M for his version of events. It appointed a claims investigator 
to obtain a detailed statement from him. The investigator noted that there were CCTV 
cameras at the junction where the incident occurred. But she didnt think they would be 
readily available as the police didnt attend the incident. There were no independent 
witnesses or dashcam footage. 
Calpe had its in-house engineer assess the other drivers outlay, photographs and repair 
costs. He thought there were reasonable. I cant see that he questioned that they were 
unrelated to the incident. Calpe also checked the car hire claim.
Calpe thought it would be unable to defend the claim as the onus was on Mr M to keep 
within a safe braking distance, which he hadnt done. So it thought it had no option but to 
settle the other drivers claim.
The other drivers solicitors provided a medical report to support his claim for personal 
injuries. I can see that Mr M says that the other driver was uninjured and returned to work 
the next day. But I think it was reasonable for Calpe to accept this expert medical report as it 
would be accepted in court. 
So I think Calpe reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before deciding to hold Mr M liable and pay the claim. I think it reasonably checked that the 
claimed for damage was in keeping with the incident circumstances. I havent seen any 
evidence that it was exaggerated. So I think Calpe acted fairly and reasonably and in 
keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
Calpe then sought to recover its outlay from Mr Ms policy excess. Mr M had a £3,000 all 
sections policy excess. Calpe deducted £164.95 that Mr M had paid for a new grill. It later 
offered to deduct £21 for the cost of a new number plate. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. And as I think the policy excess is always the first part of a claim to be paid, 
then I think its reasonable for Calpe to ask Mr M to pay the remainder. 
Mr M said Calpe should have sent someone to inspect the damage to his car. But I dont 
agree. The policy, on page 15, says that policyholders should organise their own repairs 
after this is authorised by Calpe. I can see that the claims investigator took photographs of 
the damage and asked Mr M to get an estimate for his repairs. But Mr M told Calpe he 
hadnt done that as the damage was minimal. He replaced the cars grill and number plate. 
So I think Calpe gave Mr M reasonable opportunity to report his damage, but he didnt take 
this up at the time. Due to the passage of time, I dont think it would be reasonable to do this 
now. 
Mr M thought the other driver wasnt insured to drive his car. But I think its up to the other 
drivers insurer to validate his claim. This isnt something that I can reasonably hold Calpe 
responsible for. 
Mr M was also unhappy as he said his premium had increased at renewal, contrary to the 
policy terms and conditions. But Ive seen evidence from Calpe that Mr Ms premium actually 
decreased at renewal. The investigator has already suggested that an apparent increase 
may be due Mr M paying by instalments. I think this is something for him to take up with his 
broker.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman