DRN-3947156
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) has failed to refund over 
£39,000 he says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr B fell victim to an investment scam orchestrated by Invexeo 
(the scammer) in December 2021 after seeing an advert for cryptocurrency on Facebook. 
As part of the scam, he was instructed to open a new Revolut account to transfer money to 
from his First Direct account. He then transferred £39,288 via bank transfer, debit and credit 
card. He first made two payments to cryptocurrency exchange platforms via his debit card in 
order to open his trading accounts with the scammer. The rest of the payments were made 
to his newly opened Revolut account. His funds were subsequently transferred from there on 
to his Binance wallet before then finally being sent to the scammer. 
First Direct refused to refund the money Mr B had lost. It said it had questioned him about 
the purpose of the payments he was making but that he wasnt upfront about what he was 
doing. It also said the payments were not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, as they were either made via debit/credit card or to his own account with 
Revolut. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In terms of the payments Mr B made to his 
crypto wallets, she didnt think these would have been considered unusual enough to have 
warranted an intervention by First Direct. And with regards to the payments made to Revolut, 
the investigator didnt think First Direct could fairly be held liable for these either. Mr B 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to the crypto 
platforms and Revolut account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by First Direct, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether First Direct should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
Ive first considered the two debit card payments Mr B made in December 2021 to the 
cryptocurrency platforms Wallbitex and Binance. The first payment was for £1253.54, and 
the second for £15 respectively. In my judgment, these payments would not have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Bs spending history, such 
that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at 
risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of such an amount, for example, that 
they wouldve represented a significant deviation from the way Mr Bs account was normally 
run.
So, having considered the initial debit card payments Mr B made to his crypto wallets, Im 
not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered First Directs 
fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether First Direct could have done more to recover these funds 
after Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr B used his debit 
card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So, hed be unlikely to make a successful chargeback claim 
in these circumstances because the merchant he paid had provided the services as intended 
(i.e., the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think First Direct were under any 
obligation to pursue a chargeback for these payments.
Payments to Revolut
In terms of the remaining payments Mr B made to Revolut (from his First Direct account, 
debit and credit cards), I accept that First Direct did block and discuss these payments with 
him. So, Ive thought about whether the bank could fairly and reasonably be held liable for 
failing to prevent this loss when it potentially had the opportunity. 
Mr B says the scammer told him to set up a Revolut account for him to transfer money into 
from his First Direct account, where it would then be sent on to his crypto wallets before 
reaching the scammer. Revolut is a regulated electronic money institution (EMI). And having 
listened to the phone calls Mr B had with First Direct, I can see that he was either evasive or 
chose not to be forthcoming with the true purpose of the payments he was making. He told 
First Direct that no one else had asked him to make the payment, and that he would not be 
transferring it anywhere else from his Revolut account. He said he had lots of possibilities for 
the money (with helping his family being one of them) but that he hadnt decided yet. Mr B 
said the money would be remaining in his Revolut account until he decided what to do with it 
and did not say he would be sending the money onto a crypto wallet. 
So, given Mr B was not upfront about the intended purpose of the payments he was making, 
there is no way First Direct could have reasonably foreseen that the money he was sending 
to a legitimate EMI would subsequently be transferred on again to a crypto wallet, and then 
again to a scammer. As a result, Im satisfied that First Direct cannot be said to have caused 
Mr Bs loss by failing to prevent the payments, as the loss would not have been reasonably 
foreseeable  thereby breaking the chain of causation. 
Even if the loss could be said to have been foreseeable, the fact that the loss didnt occur 
from Mr Bs First Direct account but from another unconnected e-money account could, in 
these circumstances, constitute an intervening act that would also break the chain of 
causation here. So, Im satisfied there is no legal or fair and reasonable basis in which to 
hold First Direct liable for the loss Mr B incurred through the payments he made to his 
Revolut account. In terms of whether First Direct could have done more to recover the funds, Mr B made 
payments to Revolut via debit/credit card, as well as by bank transfer. For the debit and 
credit card transactions, a chargeback claim would not have succeeded seeing as he paid 
money to his own account and did not pay another merchant for goods or services for 
example. Similarly, Mr B would not be able to make a successful claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for the payment he made via credit card as there would be no 
valid debtor/creditor/supplier chain seeing as the money went to his Revolut account first. 
In terms of the bank transfer Mr B made to his Revolut account, First Direct were under no 
obligation to consider refunding it under the CRM Code, as the Code only covers payments 
made to another person. There would also have been no prospect of First Direct recovering 
this money from the receiving bank either, given this was Mr Bs own account which we 
know the money was subsequently transferred out of. So, Im not persuaded First Direct 
could have taken any further action to recover any of the money Mr B paid to his Revolut 
account.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that First Direct can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman