DRN-2527899
The complaint
Mr C complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr Cs complaint has previously been considered by another ombudsman who issued a 
provisional decision on the complaint in September 2020. Mr C accepted the provisional 
decision. TFS didnt accept the provisional decision and provided some additional 
comments. However the original ombudsman is no longer working on complaints of this 
nature. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. My decision, that I explain 
below, is broadly the same as that provisionally reached by the original ombudsman but 
I have taken into account the additional information TFS provided.
Mr C was given a single loan by TFS. He borrowed £5,000 in May 2016 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 48 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by a relative of Mr C. But 
shortly after taking the loan Mr C found it difficult to make his repayments and the loan fell 
into arrears. Ultimately TFS was awarded a County Court Judgement against Mr C and his 
guarantor. But, with the assistance of a loan from his employer, Mr C has now repaid his 
borrowing from TFS.
In this decision I am only considering what happened in the relationship between Mr C and 
TFS. I am not making any decision regarding the acceptance by TFS of Mr Cs relative as a 
guarantor, or any impacts on the guarantor as a result of Mr Cs failure to repay the loan as 
agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr C undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr C.
TFS gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors.
The credit check highlighted that Mr C hadnt always managed his borrowing well in the past. 
He had defaulted on two other accounts which still remained on his credit file. Whilst I accept 
that the first of those problems had taken place a number of years earlier, and so might not 
be representative of Mr Cs current financial position, he had also received a more recent 
default less than a year before he applied for this loan. In a phone call with TFS Mr C had 
said that he hadnt ever experienced problems repaying credit, or been defaulted. So I think 
the clear disparity between what TFS saw from its credit check, and what Mr C had told it, 
should have led to TFS undertaking some more detailed investigations.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of four years. So, given what I have said above, I would expect that 
TFS would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think that the checks 
it did were enough. I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to independently check 
the true state of Mr Cs finances before agreeing the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean that Mr Cs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that 
what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TFS that Mr C couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statements, and what hes 
told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown TFS.At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS 
should have carried out. I do think TFS needed evidence to corroborate what Mr C said was 
happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking at Mr Cs bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks 
might have shown.
Mr Cs bank statements show clear evidence that the information he provided to TFS was 
incorrect. His regular income from his employment was much lower than he had declared. 
I appreciate TFS had verified Mr Cs income through a third party check, however the lender 
should have been aware that verification could be adversely impacted if Mr C received other 
regular transfers into his account such as loans from other lenders, or transfers from other 
accounts. And I think that is what happened here.
Mr Cs bank statements show that he was also facing problems managing his expenditure. 
In the months before the loan was agreed I can see that Mr C spent large, although variable, 
amounts on what appear to be online gambling transactions. And his spending on other 
items such as socialising were significantly higher than he told the lender. I havent seen 
anything that suggests this sort of spending was a one-off or likely to reduce in the future. So 
based on what better checks would have shown TFS about Mr Cs expenditure it wouldnt be 
reasonable to conclude that he would be able to afford his repayments in a sustainable 
manner.
TFS has pointed out that this loan has been considered by the Courts, when it obtained a 
County Court Judgement. In my experience the Courts would be unlikely to consider the 
original lending decision in matters such as these, simply ensuring that an enforceable debt 
had arisen, and remained unpaid. I havent seen anything here to make me conclude that 
this case was treated differently and that the Courts did in fact find that the loan hadnt been 
lent irresponsibly. 
So in summary, I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. 
And I think better checks would have identified Mr Cs problems managing his money that 
would have led a responsible lender to decline his loan application. So I dont think TFS 
should have given this loan to Mr C and needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
As I said earlier, Mr Cs loan was repaid by his employer. But I understand that repayment 
was subject to a separate agreement between Mr C and his employer and he has been 
required to repay the settlement via salary deductions. So for the purposes of the redress 
here I think it is reasonable to treat the loan as having been repaid by Mr C himself.
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr C in May 2016. So TFS should;
refund to Mr C all the interest and charges that were paid on the loan. 
add interest of 8% simple a year to any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.Mr C may choose to request the Courts to set aside the judgement he received in relation to 
his non-payment of the loan. TFS should provide whatever assistance Mr C reasonably 
requests in relation to that application. And if he incurs any fees in making that application 
TFS should refund those to Mr C.
Mr C has asked that I should additionally consider whether it would be appropriate to award 
some additional compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused to him. 
Ive thought about what he has said very carefully.
At the time it commenced enforcement action, including when it applied for the County Court 
Judgement, TFS considered that the loan had been lent responsibly. I dont think its actions 
were any different to what I would expect from any other lender in similar circumstances. So 
although I understand why Mr C now feels he was put through unnecessary stress, since I 
have decided that the loan was lent irresponsibly, I cannot conclude that TFSs actions at the 
time were unreasonable. So I am not making any additional award against the lender.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman