DRN-4205202
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B contacted Admiral to make a claim for storm damage when they found 
damage to their roof. Admiral declined the claim because it said there werent storm 
conditions. Mr B and Mrs B complained and Admiral later accepted there had been a storm 
and agreed to investigate the claim further and offered £75 compensation because of how it 
had dealt with the claim. It sent a company to assess the roof but said Mr B and Mrs B 
needed to provide a cause of damage report because a temporary repair had already been 
carried out to the roof.
Mr B and Mrs B told Admiral they couldnt provide a cause of damage report because the 
people who carried out the temporary repair werent able to provide one. So, Admiral said it 
was unable to validate the claim. Mr B and Mrs B complained again to Admiral. Admiral said 
there had been issues with how it had dealt with the claim, including Mr B and Mrs B having 
to call for updates and that the surveyor made a mistake on the date of loss. However, it 
didnt agree that the loss adjuster had provided poor service or failed to progress the claim. It 
offered £250 for the phone calls, trouble and upset caused and the late response to the 
complaint.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said Mr B and Mrs B had only arranged the work themselves because Admiral declined the 
claim and it was understandable that the people who repaired the roof couldnt provide a 
report. So, our investigator said that, in the circumstances, Admiral should settle the claim.
Admiral didnt agree with our investigators view on how the complaint should be resolved. It 
said it was reasonable to request a cause of damage report and that there were other 
possible causes for the issues with the roof. Our investigator replied to Admiral and 
explained again why he thought Admiral should settle the claim. He said a fair outcome was 
cash settling the claim, after the deduction of the policy excess.
Mr B and Mrs B had the work carried out on the roof. Our investigator sent the invoice for the 
work to Admiral to ask if it would now offer a settlement. Admiral maintained its position that 
it required a cause of damage report. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr B and Mrs B first raised the claim, Admiral declined it. Admiral later accepted that it 
could have done more to investigate the claim before making a decision. A couple of months 
later, Admiral sent a surveyor to look at the damage, but a temporary repair had already 
been carried out. Admiral requested a cause of damage report from the people who did the 
repair. Mr B and Mrs B have said they are unable to provide one because the people who 
carried out the repair had done the work unofficially and it would put those people in a 
difficult position.
So, Ive thought about this. I think it was reasonable that Mr B and Mrs B took steps to 
mitigate their loss by having a temporary repair carried out. When they did so, Admiral had 
already declined the claim and Mr B and Mrs B were paying for the repair themselves and 
with no expectation that Admiral would pay for the work. As they were paying for the work, it 
was up to Mr B and Mrs B who carried out the repair and they have explained to both 
Admiral and this service why the people who did the work were unable to provide a cause of 
damage report.
This made it more difficult for Admiral to validate the claim. However, it was Admiral that 
initially declined the claim. It later accepted that it should have done more to investigate the 
claim before deciding whether it could accept it. If it had investigated the claim properly at 
the beginning, it could have inspected the roof before Mr B and Mrs B carried out the 
temporary repair. So, in my view, Admirals handling of the claim was a significant factor in 
the roof condition not being assessed before the temporary repair was carried out. It isnt 
now possible to obtain an assessment of the roof condition. I accept that its normally for a 
policyholder to show they have a valid claim but, in the particular circumstances of this claim, 
I think Admirals actions resulted in that not being possible. As a result, I think Admiral needs 
to settle the claim.
Regardless of whether it was going to cover the claim, Im aware Admiral had some 
concerns about whether all of the work Mr B and Mrs B were claiming for was damage that 
formed part of the claim. Looking at Admirals records, it previously suggested a settlement 
of about £670 would be reasonable. When Admiral looked at the claim again internally, it 
considered that it might be reasonable to increase the proposed settlement amount to about 
£1,000. 
Mr B and Mrs B have now had the permanent work completed on their roof. Theyve 
provided the invoice for the work, which was for £1,080.00. So, having carefully thought 
about the full circumstances of this complaint, I think its reasonable that Admiral should 
settle the claim and do so by paying Mr B and Mrs B £1,080 in full and final settlement. 
Admiral can deduct the excess from this amount, which Mr B and Mrs B agreed to pay when 
they took out the policy, if this hasnt already been paid.
Ive also considered compensation. I think the amount Admiral offered as a result of the two 
complaints fairly responded to the issues. I dont require Admiral to pay any further 
compensation, as this amount is still in line with what I would have required it to pay having 
considered the full circumstances of what happened.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr B and Mrs B £1,080 to settle the claim. It can deduct the excess from 
the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to settle the claim for £1,080. It can deduct the excess 
from the settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman