DRN-2006904
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies in 1998 and 1999.
What happened
In November 1998, Mr R and Mrs R took out a joint personal loan and were also sold a 
single premium PPI policy to protect their repayments. Mr R and Mrs R took out a top up 
loan in June 1999. They were again sold single premium PPI. On both occasions, Mr R was 
the sole policy holder. Neither party can recall where the policies were sold.
Mr R and Mrs R believe that Nationwide mis-sold them both PPI policies in 1998 and 1999. 
They say they were informed they had to accept PPI if they wanted to continue with the 
loans. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr R and Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R and Mrs Rs case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mr R and Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional, and they chose to 
have it on both occasions. I say this because I can see that they signed sales 
documentation. These documents made it clear that PPI was optional and had separate 
costs displayed for it on both occasions. So, I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt explain 
that PPI was an optional feature. I have regard for what Mr R and Mrs R have said, but the 
sales happened many years ago and recollections can fade over time. I am persuaded 
based on what I have seen that Mr R and Mrs R were given a choice to have the two PPI 
policies.
At the time of both sales, Mr R as sole policy holder was employed, a resident in the UK and 
in good health and was therefore eligible for the cover that the policies provided. He would 
not have been caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions of the cover such 
as those relating to health or unusual employment terms. 
Mr R says that he had sickness benefits he could have relied upon for each sale but hasnt 
been able to recall how much. But, as a non-advised sale, Nationwide only needed to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the two PPI policies; it was not 
required to take into account any existing cover arrangements or to comment on the policies 
suitability for Mr R. The policies were optional, and the sales were on a non-advised basis; it 
was therefore Mr R and Mrs Rs choice whether to purchase the policies and add to their 
existing arrangements.
Information was provided in both loan agreements about costs. Both loan agreements set 
out the separate cost of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element 
and the monthly repayment that applied respectively. I am therefore satisfied the cost of 
each policy was made clear.
Both policies provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon cancellation. 
So, Mr R and Mrs R were not disadvantaged if they wanted to repay a loan early or cancel a 
PPI policy. In addition, the term of each policy (and the protection it offered) matched the 
term of the corresponding loan, so the policies were flexible to meet their changing needs 
and circumstances.
I accept it is possible that Mr R and Mrs R may feel that their information needs may not 
have been properly met, but I am not persuaded that they were disadvantaged to the extent 
that they would most likely have acted differently and declined either policy had they been 
more fully informed about it.
On balance, I think Mr R and Mrs R have not been mis-sold PPI by Nationwide on both 
occasions in 1998 or 1999.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman