DRN-2068202
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Hood Travel Limited requested an additional premium when she 
made a change to her policy.
What happened
Mrs S bought a travel insurance policy via Hood Travel for herself and three other travellers. 
Mrs S represents all travellers. All references to Hood Travel Limited include its agents.
I should also clarify that my decision only relates to the complaint about Hood Travel and not 
the insurer, which would need to be dealt with separately. 
Mrs S contacted Hood Travel to report a change in health for one of the travellers which 
resulted in a request for an additional premium. Mrs S wasnt happy about this and 
complained. Hood Travel responded to explain a change in health notification allowed the 
insurer to reassess the risk. In this case, the insurer decided an additional premium was due 
but as Mrs S didnt want to pay this, she could cancel the policy and receive a proportionate 
refund or make a claim for the cancellation of her holiday. Mrs S cancelled the policy and 
received a proportionate refund. 
Unhappy with Hood Travels response, Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Hood Travel had done anything wrong 
as it had simply passed the information to the insurer as it was required to do  and it wasnt 
responsible for the insurers decision to request an additional premium.
Mrs S disagreed and said Hood Travel was responsible for the request for the increased 
premium and she didnt think it was fair that it could do this. She said she has since found 
another insurance policy which covers changes in health. And so she believes the policy 
may have been unsuitable.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The policy explains what may happen when a change of health is notified. It says:
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue for all pre-
existing medical conditions and associated conditions. If we are unable to continue to 
provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional premium you will be entitled 
to make a claim under Section 2: Cancellation for your costs which cannot be 
recovered elsewhereAlternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in 
which case, we will refund a proportionate amount of your premium.
Hood Travel explained that the change in health is a change in risk which is assessed by the 
insurers and policy underwriters. The risk rating is agreed by the underwriters and 
determined by the screening system used by Hood Travel - so there is little margin for error 
when the risk involved, in offering insurance or continuing to offer insurance, is calculated. 
Having considered the above, I dont think Hood Travel has done anything wrong. The 
information provided by Mrs S was added to the screening system which resulted in a 
request for an additional premium. I havent seen any evidence that Hood Travel made a 
mistake or that incorrect information was included. And the underwriter is responsible for the 
cost of the premium, depending on the level of risk it is prepared to take.
Hood Travel isnt responsible for the decisions about the price of the premium  it is only 
responsible for administering the policy. Ive seen that Hood Travel did what it was required 
to do  which was to update the information about the change in health.
Mrs S is unhappy with the amount of refund she has received for cancelling the policy. Hood 
Travel isnt responsible for setting the pricing or calculating the refund  that is for the 
insurer. Mrs S had been made aware that she will need to raise any complaints regarding 
the price or the refund with the insurer directly.
Mrs S has also raised concerns that the policy may not have been suitable for her and she 
wasnt given full information about the policy at the point she bought it. These arent 
concerns she has raised directly with Hood Travel and so they havent been investigated by 
this office. Our investigator has explained that Mrs S would need to raise any new issues 
with Hood Travel first before referring back to our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman