DRN-4078665
The complaint
Mr W complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, blocked his account and havent 
returned the funds it withheld despite saying theyve been released to source.
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Pockit in my decision.
What happened
In April 2021, Pockit placed Mr Ws account under review and blocked his access to it. 
Pockit asked Mr W for proof of identity, his address and source of funds. Mr W says he gave 
Pockit the information it asked for.
In October 2021, Pockit told Mr W it had decided to close his account.
Pockit say it returned the funds to source. Mr W says he hasnt received any funds back. He 
adds that his friends, family, and employer at the time who sent money to his Pockit account 
before it was restricted havent had the funds returned either.
Unhappy with Pockits actions, Mr W complained. One of our Investigators then looked into 
Mr Ws complaint, and they recommended it be upheld in part. Mr W agreed with what our 
Investigator said, but Pockit did not reply. 
Mr Ws complaint was then passed to me to decide. I sent both Mr W and Pockit my 
provisional decision. Here is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Financial businesses in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Pockit have told me why it decided to put Mr Ws account under review and restrict his 
access to it. Having considered this, Im satisfied it acted properly when reviewing and 
blocking Mr Ws account.
Pockit is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Pockit closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Pockit asked Mr W for information as part of its review and subsequent investigation. This 
took place over a few months, and I can see from the email chains Ive been given that Mr W 
was asked for proof of his identity, residence and later, source of the funds. Mr W says he 
gave Pockit everything it asked for. Unfortunately, despite substantive efforts, Pockit havent 
shown us what it received from Mr W  and why it thought it wasnt enough before deciding 
to close the account.
This means I dont have enough information to find Pockit acted fairly, and in line with its 
terms when deciding to close Mr Ws account. Mr W has given this service all the information 
thats been asked of him, including about the source of his funds. So, on balance, I think its 
most likely Pockit didnt fairly close Mr Ws account, nor did so in line with its terms of 
account.
Mr W had other accounts at the time. So I dont think being deprived the use of his Pockit 
one stopped him from accessing banking services. But Mr W says he needed the funds 
Pockit withheld for his family, bills, and food shopping.
Mr W says neither he nor the individuals who sent money to his account before it was 
restricted have had their funds returned as Pockit say. Having looked at the evidence 
available, its clear to my mind that Pockit have been discrepant about when the funds were 
returned to source.
A screenshot of Pockits app shows funds of around £1,738 were returned to source on 
21 December 2021. A separate screenshot of an email message from Pockit dated 
28 December 2022 says the funds were returned to Mr Ws other account six weeks from 
its payment partners timescales for return. One of Mr Ws external account details are also 
listed here to show where some of the funds were released to.
Another email from Pockit also says To enable us to return the remaining funds to you, 
please provide us with a photo of a bank statement in your name. Please make sure you 
include the full bank statement, and make sure we can see your full name, address, account 
number and sort code. This is dated 8 September 2022.
Mr W has sent statements for his external account. This account is the one referenced in the 
Pockit email of 8 September 2022. Having carefully reviewed these, I cant see the amount 
Pockit say it returned has been credited to that account.
Mr W has also sent in statements from some of the individuals who sent money to his Pockit 
account shortly before it was placed under review. These are dated September 2021, a date 
Pockit previously said the funds were released back to source. Having looked at these, I 
cant see any refunds made from Mr Ws Pockit account.
So it's clear  from what Ive said above - that there are discrepant dates and messages 
given by Pockit about the return of the funds. But most importantly, I havent seen 
compelling evidence which shows the funds were returned to the source accounts  
including Mr Ws external account referenced by Pockit.
So based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely Pockit havent returned the funds as it 
says it has to the accounts they came from.
Pockit would be acting properly by deciding to return the funds to source if it could show 
enough evidence wasnt given by Mr W to show entitlement. But as Ive already said, Pockit 
havent shown us what information was given to it by Mr W  and why this wasnt enough.
Based on what Mr W has shown us about his entitlement to these funds, I dont think its 
likely Pockit had enough to decide to return it to source. So because of that, and as Im 
satisfied the funds havent been released to source, Im persuaded Pockit should return all 
the money it was holding to Mr W.From the limited emails I have from Pockit to Mr W, I can see there were months where it 
appears Pockit werent proactively investigating its concerns. This appears to be the case 
from July 2021 and onwards. Id also note there are large gaps of inactivity in its initial 
investigation from April 2021 up until this point too.
Im also of the mind that had Pockit done what it should have, and in a reasonable timeframe 
given the seriousness of restricting a customers account, the review could have been 
completed much sooner. I also think a month after it initiated the review is a fair expectation 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
So, as Mr W was deprived of his funds for much longer than he should have, I think Pockit 
should pay him 8% simple interest from 19 May 2021 up until settlement. Thats exactly a 
month after Pockit have told us it initiated the review.
Lastly, Mr W says he needed the money withheld by Pockit for his family, bills and shopping. 
Given some of these funds were from employment, and others from family to support Mr W, 
Im satisfied not having access to them would have caused distress and inconvenience.
I can also see Mr W periodically chased Pockit for an update on this matter, including why it 
wasnt returning his funds when he had given it the information requested of him. Our 
Investigator asked Mr W for a better insight into the impact Pockits actions had on him, but 
he hasnt said anything more. So based on what he has said, and the information Ive seen, 
Im persuaded Pockit should also pay Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
Mr W has spoken to our Investigator and wanted to know more information about the 
redress I had said I was planning to award. Pockit has not responded. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, I will decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. The reasons for doing so are 
contained in my provisional decision - which Ive also referenced above. 
Putting things right
To put things right Pockit must:
- Return all the funds it withheld on Mr Ws account in April 2021 to him
- Pay 8% simple interest on these funds from 19 May 2021 up until settlement
- Pay Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint in part. PayrNet Limited must 
now put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023. 
Ketan NaglaOmbudsman