DRN-3621910
The complaint
Mr M complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out checks before it granted a 
loan which he couldnt afford to repay. Mr M went on to say that had proper affordability 
checks been carried out Morses wouldve seen adverse information recorded on his credit 
file  including a default and not lent to him. 
Finally, Mr M says that the interest, fees and charges were excessive and even though he 
repaid the loan within the cooling off period the loan is still showing on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Morses for £300 on 10 November 2021. Mr M repaid this loan in full 
on 23 November 2021. Due to Mr M repaying the loan within the 14 day cooling off period 
Morses statement of account shows no interest or fees were charged. 
Morses considered Mr Ms complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses concluded 
it hadnt made an error when it approved the loan because it carried out a proportionate 
check which showed that Mr M could afford the loan. In addition, it concluded  you were 
not charged any interest on this loan so it cannot be deemed unaffordable.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend the loan. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome and he made two points in response:
1. the loan shouldnt have been provided because it wasnt affordable and 
2. as the loan was cancelled and was unaffordable it shouldnt be showing on his credit 
file.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Unaffordable lending
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Mr Ms income as being around £461 per week with weekly outgoings of 
£276. Morses was therefore aware that he had around £185 per week in which to make the 
weekly loan payment. 
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Morses wouldve been reasonably 
confident Mr M could afford his loan repayments. 
Before this loan was approved Morses also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
copy of the results. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Mr M 
may be able to view on the credit report that he can obtain. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information such as the 
number of active credit accounts. 
But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  Ive considered the results that it has provided. The results show there is some adverse 
information such as Morses being aware of two defaults. However, the most recent default 
was recorded over two years before the loan was applied for. Which in my view, is too far 
away from this loan application to make Morses think Mr M was having current financial 
difficulties. So, I dont think the credit checks wouldve alerted Morses to either have declined 
the loan application or to have prompted it to make further enquires with 
Mr M. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr M had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Mr M provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the loan.
It is worth saying here, that Mr M repaid the loan the within the 14 day cooling off period 
afforded to him. As a result, and what is confirmed by Morses statement of account, there 
was no interest or fees added to the amount borrowed. 
So even, if I were to conclude that the loan shouldnt have been granted  (to be clear I dont 
think this) - then there wouldnt have been any refund due to Mr M because he only repaid 
what he borrowed  which is what wed expect. The Financial Ombudsman Service would 
only ask Morses to refund any interest fees and charges and so as none were charged, no 
refund wouldve been due. 
Im therefore not upholding this element of Mr Ms complaint. 
Credit file
Mr M hasnt provided a copy of his credit file, so I dont know exactly what information 
Morses is reporting to the credit reference agencies about this loan. But Mr M has said he 
can see the loan on his credit file and I have no reason to doubt that. 
Mr M does suggest that because he cancelled the loan agreement then no information 
should be reported to the credit reference agencies. Ive thought about this carefully and 
while I understand Mr Ms frustration, Morses has done nothing wrong in reporting the loan 
to the credit reference agencies as long as it hasnt reported any adverse information about 
the loan and what it is reporting is an accurate reflection of how the account was repaid. 
Ive considered what the Consumer Credit Act says about cancelling a credit agreement but 
there is nothing in there, as far as I can see, that would prevent a lender from reporting a 
cancelled loan to the credit reference agencies. So Morses reporting the loan, isnt in my 
view, an error.
However, even if I had concluded that Morses shouldnt have provided the loan, given it was 
early on in the lending relationship Id have asked Morses to remove any adverse 
information it may have reported to the credit reference agencies. I wouldnt have asked, at 
this point in the lending relationship for Morses to delete the record because it was too soon 
to conclude the loan was unsustainable for Mr M. 
Taking everything into account Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate the outcome  
will come as a disappointment to Mr M but I hope my explanation is useful as to why I cant 
uphold either element of his complaint. My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman