DRN-3222937
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not allow 
him to cash in his annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr D had a personal pension with Prudential. In 2011, Mr D enquired about taking his benefits 
early under the policy. He spoke to Prudential and it was agreed he would be sent transfer forms 
as he was not entitled to take the full value of the policy as a lump sum with it. Prudential sent Mr D 
a claim form and explained in this letter that if he chose to transfer, he may lose his protected tax-
free cash  which was higher than the standard 25% available from a personal pension.
Mr D decided to take his benefits with Prudential, he selected to take the maximum tax-free cash of 
£987.57 available and an annuity. Mr D selected to have an annuity with a five year guarantee and 
a 50% spouses pension. Prudential wrote to Mr D confirming that his annuity would commence 
paying him £48.72 a year.
More recently, Mr D asked Prudential if he could cash in his annuity. Prudential said legislation did 
allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion and it had 
chosen not to offer this. Mr D was unhappy with this as he felt it was his money and hed bought a 
pension and not an annuity. So if it couldnt be cashed in he felt hed been mis-sold the policy. 
Prudential explained the relationship between pensions and annuities  and that pension funds at 
the time had to be converted into an annuity. But Mr D remained unhappy and felt he should be 
allowed a cash value in place of his annuity.
Mr D spoke to our investigator and explained that he receives such a small amount and a lot of 
paperwork for the annuity and it doesnt seem worth the hassle. Hed much prefer a lump sum. Mr 
D said he wasnt happy about having an annuity. Our investigator explained that at the time his 
options were limited and its only after pension freedoms in 2015 that more flexibility about how 
benefits could be taken was introduced. Mr D said he understood that, but he knew of a friend 
whod had an annuity cashed in and would like the same option. Our investigator explained we 
were still looking into things but that the legislation didnt require businesses to make offers, it was 
at their discretion.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Mr D took out his annuity in 2011, he says he asked if he could take all of his benefits as a 
lump sum but was told he wasnt entitled to do so.
The rules at the time only allowed a payment of a pension as a lump sum in certain conditions. Mr 
Ds pension value was above the limit allowing for small pot cash values to be paid. There was 
also legislation that allowed a cash value to be paid if your total pension benefits (excluding state 
pension) was under the triviality limit of £18,000 (this figure was amended over the years) but Mr D 
told us he had valuable pension benefits elsewhere. So I think this wouldve been the basis of the 
conversation that ended with him realising he wasnt entitled to a cash sum. Therefore, he was 
limited to the legislation at the time and if he wished to take his benefits, realistically, hed have to 
take an annuity. So my findings have concentrated on whether he should be allowed to cash in his 
annuity.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ds position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal arrangement 
with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause issues with 
commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively affect 
the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does Prudential have discretion to commute Mr Ds annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr D the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ds best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Prudential was free to grant Mr Ds request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerationsPrudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mr D to cash-in the annuity. Mr Ds annuity does have a joint-life. And Prudential has raised this as 
an issue generally. But it hasnt gone as far as to say it couldnt make cash in offers in this situation 
 just that it could require both lives on the annuity to agree to cash in the annuity. So I am 
proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr D to show that he would be worse off if he were 
to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Ds told us and the value 
of his annuity, which is paying him just £50 a year, I agree the annuity is so small that it doesnt 
appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. And a cash lump sum in place, even if 
relatively small, would most likely benefit him more than the annuity. I also note this is what Mr D 
has said he preferred to do at the outset (i.e. take his whole pension as a cash lump sum) had that 
been possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt 
been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mr Ds personal interest to 
encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Prudential fairly took into account Mr Ds interests 
when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow him to cash-in his annuity. I think it did.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr D, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Offering commutation to Mr D simply because the annuity is small means it would have 
to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it wouldnt be 
treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have the systems and 
processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
-Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require 
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).
-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so cash 
values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think 
Prudential simply disregarded Mr Ds interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to 
treat Mr Ds case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a 
business the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not 
persuaded there is reason in Mr Ds case to treat him differently to other customers with small 
annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr D would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mr D had a right to. And while Prudential was free to allow his request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Mr Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr D in line with other 
customers.Mr D has mentioned that he knows of a friend who was offered a cash-in value, I cant comment 
specifically on this. But its worth explaining that the stance Prudential has taken is mirrored by 
most of the other pension providers in the industry. We are aware that initially some providers 
used their discretion to allow the occasional exception  and at least one provider made group 
offers as part of their business model. But generally speaking it seems most providers are not 
making offers at this present time.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible 
Mr D may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Prudential must change its position 
at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
I understand Mr D is disappointed with my decision and doesnt agree with it, but he hasnt 
added anything new or substantive that hasnt already been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Mr Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr D in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman