DRN-1526403
 
The complaint
 Mr A complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
him money he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened 
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Mr A between September 2018 
and August 2019. 
Heres a table with more information about the loans: 
 
LoanDate 
Taken Date 
Repaid 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly
Repayment 
Deferrals*
103/09/2018 18/01/2019 3 £200.00 £103.46 2
210/03/2019 31/07/2019 3 £350.00 £174.33 2
327/08/2019 18/10/2019 3 £350.00 £197.86 1
* a deferral means a reduced interest-only payment was made instead of the full contractual 
amount shown on the loan agreement 
Mr A complained that when he was borrowing from Mr Lender he was already in serious 
financial difficulty and that Mr Lender shouldve been aware of this. 
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out thorough checks and 
based on the information it gathered the lending was affordable for Mr A. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loan 1 to Mr A but explained why he thought that 
loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been lent. And our adjudicator set out the steps he believed Mr 
Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
Since then theres been some further correspondence  Mr A suggested a way to settle the 
complaint without the need for an ombudsman decision. But Mr Lender has said it doesnt 
agree with Mr As proposals. So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What I've decided - and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before lending. It asked Mr A to provide details of 
his income and to tell Mr Lender what he normally spent each month  including what he 
paid towards any other credit arrangements he had set up. Mr Lender also carried out some 
checks on Mr As credit file. Ive seen a summary of the results of the checks Mr Lender did and they dont show 
anything that I think should reasonably have made Mr Lender think loan 1 wasnt affordable 
for Mr A. I appreciate that Mr As circumstances might not have been reflected in the 
information Mr Lender had. But, looked at overall, given the loan repayment amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr As circumstances at the time and his borrowing history with the 
lender at that stage, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for 
the amount of information that wouldve been needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan.
As it seems that Mr A hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
this loan, I dont think I need to say any more about it.
So I dont uphold Mr As complaint about loan 1  even though it turned out that he didnt 
make all the full contractual repayments hed originally signed up to on time.
I accept that if a borrower opts to make interest only repayments this might not necessarily 
be an indication of financial difficulty.
But in this particular case, by the time he asked for loan 2, Id expect Mr Lender to have 
taken into account Mr As repayment record on loan 1 alongside the other information it 
could see. 
Mr Lender gave Mr A loan 2 less than two months after he repaid his first loan. This loan 
was for significantly more money (loan 2 was 75% bigger than loan 1). 
And Mr Lender was aware that the amount Mr A had said he was spending on other short 
term loans had gone up from £150 when he took out loan 1 to a figure that was now more 
than three times this amount (£500) by the time he applied for loan 2 
Taking into account all this information, I think a reasonable lender ought to have realised 
that his record of deferrals on loan 1 most likely indicated that Mr A had money problems 
and hed found it difficult to afford to pay for the borrowing hed taken out. 
And I think Mr Lender shouldve realised that the information Mr A provided was clearly at 
odds with his borrowing from Mr Lender and other short term lenders  especially bearing in 
mind that his home circumstances meant his living costs were quite modest and he had a 
reasonable income.
I think that what Mr Lender could see about Mr As financial situation should reasonably 
have led Mr Lender to the conclusion that the information hed provided about his finances 
was highly inaccurate and that it was likely that Mr A was facing serious problems managing 
his money.
So I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude that it was likely Mr A would be 
able to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner. 
Mr Lender shouldve realised that this loan, and further lending, was likely to be unaffordable 
for Mr A. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 and 3, not including anything it has already refunded. 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
 
C. Pay Mr A the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Mr As credit file for 
loans 2 and 3.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. 
Mr Lender must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision 
I uphold Mr As complaint about loans 2 and 3 and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should put things right for Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman