DRN-4091891
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited (TPL), trading as Abacus 
Associates Financial Services, didnt complete the transfer of defined benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) in a reasonable timeframe, which resulted in him 
receiving a significantly reduced transfer sum.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mr E was introduced to TPL in January 2022 as he was considering transferring his OPS 
benefits. Owing to their cash equivalent transfer value (CETV), regulated advice was 
required.
This transfer was ultimately to be to Mr Es existing Standard Life (SL) personal pension 
plan (PPP).
It seems that a video meeting between TPL and Mr E took place on 27 January 2022. Mr E 
then signed various documents on 8 February 2022  these included:
An agreement to be provided with TPLs DB Pension Transfer Advice Service with
a fee of £8,000 and a quoted CETV of £458,583 approx.
A client agreement which said: I authorise you to record, store and transfer relevant
personal information pertinent to my/our financial planning requirements, on a
confidential basis, between such third parties.
A letter of authority (LoA) for the ceding scheme.
An assessment of his attitude to risk.
On 9 February 2022, TPL sent a request to the ceding scheme for information relating to Mr 
Es benefits entitlement. This would later help TPL formulate its advice report.
The ceding scheme issued a CETV on 22 February 2022 to TPL. It quoted a non-
guaranteed transfer value of £7,306.74 (money purchase benefits) and a CETV for the 
defined benefits of £437,157.11. 
The quote said: The transfer value is valid until 22 May 2022. Please send all fully 
completed forms back to us by 1 May 2022, otherwise we cannot guarantee that we will be 
able to process the request before the transfer quotation expires.
TPL has referenced an email on 3 March 2022, in which it said the following to Mr E: "Can 
you contact them, saying you are in the process of a transfer out and will they allow you to 
transfer out after the normal retirement age?" 
TPL has said that it received the CETV and scheme information on 4 March 2022. 
On 9 March 2022, TPL asked Mr E to obtain information about the pension plan he held with 
Standard Life.
TPL received an email on 14 March 2022 in which Mr E said SL informed him that it had 
"sorted out the cash account they will put the transfer into. It will be linked to my on-going 
account plan D3*********. But they asked if you would ring their Advisor team line to confirm 
what was going to occur.
On 15 March 2022, an information only LoA was completed by Mr E for SL. This was then 
sent to SL on 16 March 2022.
On 17 March 2022, TPL emailed Mr E to ask if he had the information on the cash he 
wanted to use, the charges, and funds. Mr E replied that day to say there was
half a page showing total charges only.
In an email dated 21 March 2022 sent by Mr E to TPL, he said the following:
I am v worried that [adviser name] and yourself believe that it will take more than 3 months 
and thus unlikely to meet the new revised/later deadline. This is not normal, as the whole 
point of the 3 month quote is that you can get it done in that time. So who is getting it wrong 
here? The CETV is already a month old, and I have tried to help as much as possible, but 
am hardly allowed to do anything. Everybody else gains from sloth, except me.
Do you know I am now not getting £1000 per month income with these delays. As a result, to
incentivise you, I could charge you £1000 per month for delays maybe, as otherwise I see no
incentive in this exercise dragging on. I fear that every time I have to delay and get another
quote the transfer amount falls ...... presumably due to market movements.
I note you want another questionnaire and "plans for future" info. I've already done this. Also
you want to do analysis of other options and then detailed analysis of current scheme. 
Finally, a cashflow analysis. This should have been done before, as you knew what I want.
Finally, final insult to me, you suggest a new CETV will possibly cost me £300! This is the 
last straw.
[Adviser name], I'm sorry to be so annoyed, but this process is so very wrong. I'm prevented 
by bureaucracy in doing what is best. So I will give up, unless I can fully renegotiate the 
contract.
As you know by now, this process has become toxic and it is the principle of it. That means I
will walk away through frustration. I will not pay anything, whilst it is open ended and I have
no controls.
TPL has said that, by 21 March 2022, research information was now available to start the
process of transferring Mr Es defined benefits. Then, on 28 March 2022, TPL noted that Mr 
E had gone quiet - but on 30 March 2022, Mr E emailed to say the following:
"I'm finally back in land of living. Tough past week! But getting things together again.
Do we need to touch base or are things going forward?"
On 4 April 2022, TPL indicated that a report would be issued within a week, as follows:
"The report will be written within the next week and then go for approval."On 11 April 2022 TPL questioned, internally, whether abridged advice (cheaper and
more informal) could be given before full advice. This related to previous advice (given by LV 
not to transfer) having been declined. 
TPL discussed, internally, that Mr E wasnt concerned by the prospect of relinquishing the 
defined benefits because if a good annuity rate could be sourced, he saw no reason not to 
transfer. It was also noted that Mr E had considerable other assets and so the guarantees 
attached to the defined benefits were of reduced significance to him. TPL noted that [Full 
advice] may well cost him another 8k without a transfer.
On 13 April 2022, TPL noted that: Enquiries responded to and confirmation that SL could 
not provide us with an illustration. 
And that:
It has been impossible to get a KFI from receiving scheme, [name removed] has said we 
can proceed without, particularly as it is going into cash, and that e-mail is on FP.
And on the same day, recognising the 1 May 2022 deadline, TPL noted that:
With regard to this case, are we able to obtain an illustration from Standard Life (as the
client is transferring into his current Standard Life pension)?
Whilst the CETV for this case is 22/05/2022 the scheme paperwork states the following, so I
would really like to get the APTA run asap and get the case written up (but we also need the
below query clarified by the scheme) from my email of 12/04/2022 in order to run the APTA
And TPL then said the following:
With regard to my email sent earlier, please ignore the query re the Standard Life illustration
- I have just found an email on file confirming that [adviser name] couldn't get one!
TPL also noted the following:
It has been impossible to get a KFI from receiving scheme, [name removed] has said we 
can proceed without, particularly as it is going into cash, and that e- mail is on FP.
On 3 May 2022 further internal notes recorded the following:
[name removed]  [name removed] suggested seeing previous report from LV before
actually asking why previous advice was declined?
It was then stated that the report wasnt needed, once it was understood why advice was
declined, and in the context of the internal discussions on the prospect of abridged or full 
advice being offered.
As it was, Mr E ultimately received full advice which endorsed the transfer, but with a 
reduced fee payable given the previous fee hes paid to LV.
TPLs suitability report was dated 1 May 2022, and it issued it to Mr E on 13 May
2022. TPLs compliance team spoke with Mr E on 18 May 2022. It says this date was
brought forward as it was aware of the impending deadline date.
On 18 May 2022, Mr E texted TPL to say the following:Standard Life has just asked me to get you to send them a letter of authority of Servicing 
rights on my plan. [SL employee] was my contact, customer operations rep. Is this ok.
TPL then submitted the documents to the ceding scheme on 20 May 2022, and sent the 
following email to SL:
Hi,
Please find letter of authority for above client.
We sent this in months ago but never received a response.
Client is transferring a DB pension scheme with a deadline of tomorrow into his Pension with 
SL and we need to know if there is a transfer application form he needs to complete?
From this point, various exchanges of correspondence took place, most of which related to
what SL did or didnt need - chiefly the application form, which TPL has said was a key issue 
here.
Mr E then received a lower CETV from the ceding scheme since the deadline date passed. 
And Mr E then delayed transferring, at this point, while he tried to resolve matters.
Mr E contacted TPL on 13 September 2022 to say hed requested the transfer and
required TPL to be temporarily appointed to facilitate it. It appears that SL said it couldnt 
proceed as TPL had removed itself from the account.
On 3 October 2022, TPL wrote to Mr E confirming that the CETV had fallen from £437,157 to 
£354,008 and while a hold was placed, SL had confirmed on 9 September 2022 that the 
transfer had been made after instruction from Mr E. 
The letter added the following:
Having considered your circumstances and the updated CETV provided by [ceding 
scheme], I have concluded that, on balance, a transfer of the [ceding scheme] to your 
existing Standard Life Flexible Retirement Plan would still suit your requirements and meet 
with your specified objectives.
Unhappy with what happened, and a reduction in the CETV of over £80,000, Mr E 
complained to TPL.
TPL issued its final response, in which it said it felt it hadnt done anything wrong, but as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund its £8,000 fee.
Mr E remained unhappy and referred the matter to us for review.
As part of his assessment, the investigator asked both Mr E and TPL for further information.
In response, TPL said that Mr E had:
confirmed on several occasions that he wanted to do everything himself and hence he
opted for transactional only and wanted to invest into his existing Standard Life (SL) scheme
and therefore LOA to SL was not sent. [Mr E] insisted that it was not necessary to contact 
any other existing schemes apart from [ceding scheme]. [Mr E] wanted to control everything 
to do with SL.And:
There were no obvious delays other than [Mr E] being ill with Covid. This case could have 
been completed successfully if Standard Life had provided [Mr E] with an application form 
which both [TPL employees] requested from the client. As explained above [Mr E] did not 
wish for us to get involved with Standard Life and that he would make the necessary 
interactions.
Having considered the matter, the investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. 
In support of this position, he said the following in summary:
TPL had a duty to be clear from the outset about what information might be needed 
to complete the transfer, and it ought to have reminded SL with the right authority in 
place, of its obligations to Mr E. This would have led to a smoother and quicker 
process.
Hed taken into account TPLs requirement to pay due regard to Mr Es best interests 
and to treat him fairly, along with paying due regard to Mr Es information needs and 
communicating information in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading.
TPL ought to have known that it would need to liaise with the receiving scheme, and 
bear in mind the initial deadline for receiving paperwork of 1 May 2022. 
It wasnt the case that Mr E was being treated as an insistent client. And so it ought 
to have been made clear to Mr E that TPL would need a LoA from him at the outset.
Although TPL had said that Mr E had been insistent that it didnt need to contact 
anyone other than the ceding scheme, it was up to TPL to correct this 
misunderstanding. And as Mr E clearly wanted the transfer to proceed, it was likely 
that he would then have provided the required authority for it to do so.
The client agreement between Mr E and TPL said the following:
I authorise you to record, store and transfer relevant personal information pertinent 
to my/our financial planning requirements, on a confidential basis, between such third 
parties.
TPL could have made it clear to Mr E that it didnt need servicing rights to his PPP 
with SL  rather it just required information.
Mr E had made it clear in his email of 21 March 20222 that he was concerned with 
the time the process was taking and that he wished to speed things up. Further, TPL 
was aware of the deadline and clearly felt that it had what was needed to proceed. Its 
compliance team had noted the deadline and was content to proceed  so it should 
have been aiming to submit the application to transfer by 1 May 2022.
TPL had queried internally as to whether abridged advice might be the better route, 
and this wasnt unwarranted, given the previous instance of negative advice. But it 
also noted that Mr E wanted transactional only advice, indicating a determination on 
his part to proceed.
But abridged advice wouldnt have assisted Mr E in facilitating the transfer, given the 
amount of the CETV. Given Mr Es clear determination to transfer (he still wished to proceed even after the previous negative advice), TPL should have addressed that 
particular aspect, and resolved it, sooner than two months into the process.
TPL somewhat drip fed the information requirements to Mr E. And whilst the lack of a 
requirement for an application form was only made clear by SL towards the end of 
the process, this should have been established earlier on, and could have been with 
the necessary LoA from Mr E. And TPL could have chased any outstanding 
information requirements at an earlier stage. This didnt happen, as evidenced by its 
comment that it had contacted SL months ago, but hadnt received a response.
Regulated advice could take some time, but the investigator didnt think that the time 
taken here to complete the process was reasonable.
TPL had said it thought Mr E had misinterpreted its response of 4 April 2022 that the 
report would be written in the next week and be conveyed internally for approval. It 
said that delays to its report and completion were due to:
1. Queries regarding abridged advice due to previous annuity consideration.
2. Difficulty retrieving Standard Life illustration.
3. Queries regarding LTA
But it wasnt reasonable to suggest that the delays occurred because of these three 
issues. Mr E was entitled to consider that the report would be written and sent for 
approval within the timeframe stated by TPL  rather than the actual time period of 
more than four weeks.
Much of the delay incurred here had been avoidable, and TPL should have done 
more to ensure that the process completed by the deadline. Had it done so, it was 
likely, on balance, that this would have happened.
There were few non-standard aspects to the advice, and Mr E hadnt himself 
caused any significant delays. When he had Covid, he would still have been 
contactable for urgent issues (which didnt in any case arise).
And although it was unclear as to why SL had said that an application form wouldnt 
need to be completed  and the investigator could understand why TPL may think 
that SL had itself contributed to the delay  the regulated advisory party here was 
TPL.
TPL was aware of the deadline of 1 May 2022 by 4 March 2022. And although it has 
said that this was unreasonable, this is what it had to work with. And the failure to 
obtain the LoA to liaise with SL meant that there was little time to clarify the 
application form issue and chase matters.
The investigator concluded that TPL could have completed its advice and issued the 
relevant paperwork by 1 May 2022  which meant that it would have had around two 
months to do so. As 1 May 2022 fell on a weekend, a fair completion date would 
have been 29 April 2022.
It was difficult to know when things might then have completed, but as the ceding 
scheme had said it needed up to three weeks to process the transfer from its side, a 
period of two weeks was fair. This would allow for any final chasing which TPL may 
have needed to do.There was a further delay in the transfer completing after the new CETV had been 
issued, but this was a consequence of the reduction in that CETV and Mr Es efforts 
to resolve matters. And the reduction would have caused Mr E considerable trouble 
and upset.
The investigator said that Mr E should be placed, as closely as possible, into the position he 
would now be in but for the delays. This, he said, could be achieved by the following steps:
1. Calculate the difference between the two CETVs as of 13 May 2022 (subject to 
validation)
2. As the redress couldnt now be paid directly into a pension, the above value should 
be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the CETV loss 
(proportional to the higher TV) could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% 
would have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction from the value of part 1 would 
reflect this.
3. Calculate 8% simple interest on the above after the notional tax deduction had been 
completed. This is to reflect a loss of use of this income. The interest should be 
calculated with effect from 13 May 2022 until the settlement date.
The investigator said that, if TPL considered that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it had 
taken off. It should also give M E a tax deduction certificate if he asked for one, so he 
could reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
4.  Pay Mr E £250 for the trouble and upset caused by this issue.
The investigator thought that Mr E would have paid the £8,000 fee for timely advice, and so 
there was no need for this to be refunded.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr E had annuitized with the non-tax free cash element 
of the transferred sum, and so he considered the above to be the simplest solution, but 
invited comments on this.
Mr E accepted the investigators conclusions and recommendations, but queried as to why 
the compensation couldnt simply be paid into his SL PPP. He also questioned the tax free 
amount within any redress sum, suggesting that the whole amount might be tax free.
The investigator agreed that if a PPP remained in place, then paying the redress into this 
would be the simplest method. And in terms of the tax free allowance, the investigator 
clarified that this applied to the total notional amount of the CETV. So if Mr E received 25% 
of the actual CETV as tax free cash, then the same proportion of the redress sum would also 
be tax free.
On the basis that a pension plan was still available to receive any redress, the investigator 
then clarified to both parties that this should happen if possible. He said that TPL should 
calculate the current notional value of the plan, had the higher CETV been paid in on 13 May 
2022.
8% interest would then only be due on the 25% which could have been taken as tax free 
cash (subject to evidence that 25% was in fact taken from the actual transferred amount).Mr E then confirmed that his SL PPP had been closed.
TPL responded to the investigators assessment, saying that it would like it to be referred to 
an ombudsman for review, for the following reasons:
Although it had been suggested that it should have known that it would need to liaise 
with the receiving scheme at some point, Mr E was very clear about his wishes in this 
regard. It acknowledged its responsibility to provide suitable advice, but it had done 
its best to assist Mr E from an administrative perspective. It had a duty to treat Mr E 
fairly, but it considered that this is what it had done here  respecting his wishes and 
data privacy.
The timeline demonstrated that the LoA wasnt provided too late in the process. The 
problems only occurred when the information only LoA was rejected, which wasnt 
standard industry practice.
It had been mentioned that TPL was aware of the 1 May 2022 deadline, but this only 
provided two months to complete the work  and this was an unreasonable 
timescale. Providers were duty bound to honour a guarantee of three months, but 
this had been disregarded by the ceding scheme.
At no point did TPL imply that it would be able to meet the 1 May 2022 deadline and 
it always caveated that it may not be able to meet a three month deadline due to the 
complexities of a defined benefit transfer.
The investigator had said that TPL should have assessed any need for abridged 
advice sooner, but its adviser did recognise that abridged advice wouldnt be suitable 
for Mr E and duly informed the compliance team of this when questioned. And the 
compliance team then agreed with this.
Although it had been suggested that TPL should have chased SL for the required 
information, the frequency of such chasing would be a rather subjective matter. But it 
didnt in any case seem appropriate to hold TPL accountable for SLs failings.
TPL concluded that the matter of delays was high subjective, but that these were in any case 
caused by external influences. And it reiterated that it made it very clear at the outset of such 
a process that it couldnt guarantee it would meet the CETV deadline, as it was aware of the 
complications which could occur.
The investigator acknowledged the response, and confirmed to both parties that the matter 
would be referred to an ombudsman, and that, as the SIPP had been closed, he would 
revert to the initial recommendation regarding the redress methodology.
With regard to TPLs comments on his assessment, the investigator reiterated his view that 
TPL hadnt treated fairly Mr E by taking as long as it did to provide advice and complete the 
process. There was a tension between what it had said about doing what Mr E had wanted 
and providing the full advice process. And it clearly did the latter, as evidenced by the time 
taken to do so.
He added that, if TPL didnt think that the timescale for completion as provided by the ceding 
scheme was reasonable or realistic, it should have been clearer about this. But there was in 
any case no evidence that TPL tried to meet the quoted deadline, and it was aware that Mr 
Es CETV was at risk if it didnt.He remained of the view that, had the correct LoA been requested sooner than it was, and 
the reasons given, then Mr E wouldnt have objected to this.
The investigator also said that, although TPL may make it clear that it cant guarantee to 
meet a CETV deadline, the purpose of such a warning isnt to guard against its own 
administrative failings.
The investigator then asked SL further questions relating to when it made it clear that an 
application form would be provided for the transfer into the SIPP and clarity around the 
requirement for the LoA. It said that this was confirmed to Mr E in February 2022 and TPL 
was made aware in May 2022. It also said that TPL initially sent it a LoA which entitled it to 
request information about the plan, but a letter of appointment (relating to servicing rights) 
was required to provide instructions on the plan, which included facilitating a transfer such as 
this.
The investigator conveyed this information to TPL, and that he considered it to be quite 
reasonable that a letter of appointment would be needed rather than simply a LoA. And it 
remained his view that Mr E had done what he considered he needed to do to effect the 
transfer. It was then up to TPL to ensure that the right information, LoA or appointment, and 
whatever other necessary information, had been requested and submitted in a timely 
manner.
TPL confirmed that it had no further comments to make.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the outcome, its been referred to me for review.
At my request, the investigator enquired of TPL as to the point at which it became aware that 
LV had previously provided advice to Mr E to not transfer. He also asked why TPL had 
proceeded to full advice when, from a technical perspective, having received regulated 
advice from LV, all he needed was a section 48 certificate which essentially confirms that 
advice has been provided.
In response, TPL said that it had first become aware of the previous advice on 11 April 2023 
in a conversation between Mr E and its adviser. And as regards the section 48 notice, it 
considered that this is something which would have been provided by LV. 
It also considered that providing further advice, once sought by Mr E as a second opinion, 
was the right thing to do.
But it in any case said that, although technically possible, it wasnt aware of any providers 
which were willing to accept execution only transfers where the advice had been to not 
transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that I think it was reasonable for TPL to consider whether abridged advice 
might have been suitable for Mr E, given the previous recommendation to not transfer. It if 
had become apparent from that advice that there was a strong rationale for not transferring 
(and indeed the regulatory presumption is that such transfers arent suitable unless it can be 
demonstrated otherwise), then this same sentiment could have been reiterated to Mr E by 
the more informal streamlined and cost effective abridged process.And so I think this would reasonably have introduced a small delay in the process whilst TPL 
was considering internally whether this was the right course of action for Mr E. But it 
ultimately determined that, on the basis of what it knew about Mr Es own thinking around 
the OPS benefits, his other assets, and what he intended to do with the funds, that the 
transfer would be suitable.
I therefore need to consider the time it actually took to reach that conclusion, along with all 
the other aspects of its process, to determine whether it took a reasonable amount of time to 
submit the required paperwork to the ceding scheme.
And having considered this, Im inclined to agree with the investigators conclusions, in that 
the whole process could have been completed in a shorter timeframe, such that I think it was 
more likely than not, on balance, that Mr E could have benefited from the higher CETV.
TPL has said that the initial CETV, which was issued on 22 February 2022, wasnt received 
until 4 March 2022, some nine days later. TPL then asked Mr E to request further scheme 
information on 9 March 2022 and the information only LoA was completed by Mr E for SL 
on 15 March 2022 and sent to SL the next day.
TPL was again in contact with Mr E on 17 March 2022 about whether he had the information 
about the cash he wanted to use, the charges and the funds. Although Mr E then expressed 
concerns on 21 March 2022 about how long the process was taking, and on the basis that I 
accept that TPL didnt receive the CETV and other scheme information until 4 March 2022, I 
dont think that there were any particular delay periods up to that point, although I comment 
further on the quality of the process up to that point, and what might reasonably have been 
happening with SL at the same time, below.
There was then something of a hiatus between 21 March 2022 and 30 March 2022 in which 
it was observed that Mr E had gone quiet, and Mr E himself confirmed that he was finally 
back in the land of the living on 28 March 2022, and so I dont think I can attribute this delay 
to TPL either  although again, I comment on the type of actions which could also have been 
happening in the background further below.
TPL then indicated on 4 April 2022 that the report could be completed within a week, but this 
was then complicated by the confirmation on 11 April 2022 that advice had already been 
received from LV  and the internal TPL consideration as to whether abridged advice might 
be better for Mr E began.
But this wasnt then resolved until the beginning of May 2022, with the suitability report being 
dated 1 May 2022, but not in fact issued to Mr E until 13 May 2022. 
So it took over a month for TPL to resolve the abridged advice question and to send the 
report to Mr E, and I dont think this was a reasonable timescale. It also seems that, by 13 
April 2022, it was noted that the case could proceed without the KFI which had previously 
been sought.
After TPL had spoken with Mr E on 18 May 2022, the paperwork was submitted to the 
ceding scheme on 20 May 2022, but due to the ceding scheme not receiving the receiving 
scheme form from SL until 6 June 2022, the CETV needed to be recalculated.
And so it appears to be the case that, although I consider there to have been unreasonable 
delays in TPL providing the suitability report and submitting the paperwork to the ceding 
scheme, it was the absence of the receiving scheme form from SL that mean that the 
CETV was recalculated. This was the reason given by the ceding scheme for the need to 
recalculate the CETV. Any my views on this part of the process are similar to those expressed by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons. Although it seems to be TPLs position that Mr E was 
dealing with that aspect  the interaction with SL - of the transfer, I think it was incumbent 
upon TPL to assist Mr E in whatever way would mean that the transfer had the best chance 
of completing before the CETV deadline. And as with the investigator, I think this would 
reasonably have meant ascertaining  early in the process - what kind of LoA was required, 
whether an application form was required, and ensuring that the SL part of the transfer was 
sufficiently progressed that, once the paperwork was submitted to the ceding scheme, there 
would be no additional issues which would delay matters further. 
Mr E was paying a significant sum of money to TPL for it to advise on and facilitate the 
transfer, and I dont think its a reasonable position to claim that Mr E was essentially dealing 
with that side of the process himself. As set out by the investigator, Mr E was the layman, 
and TPL was the professional firm charged with ensuring that the transfer completed 
successfully, and this ought to have included ensuring that every moving part was being 
addressed, and that, if SL hadnt responded to requests in a timely manner, these were 
chased so that there was the best chance possible of the transfer completing in time.
As also commented upon by the investigator, other than the issue of the previous advice 
given by LV, I dont think there were elements within the transfer which meant that it would 
reasonably have taken the time it did to complete, and certainly not from the perspective of 
what needed to happen with the receiving scheme  SL. This simply required a better, and 
earlier, understanding of what needed to happen to ensure that that part of the process 
successfully dovetailed with the other aspects. And given that the receiving scheme form 
was submitted by SL to the ceding scheme on 6 June 2022, Im satisfied that, had more 
proactive action been taken regarding SLs requirements earlier on, then this could 
comfortably have happened before the CETV deadline.
Ive noted TPLs comment relating to the caveats it provided about such transfers not 
completing in time. But I also agree with the investigator that the reasonably understood 
purpose of such caveats isnt to abdicate responsibility for administrative failings or 
unnecessary delays on behalf of TPL. Rather its to manage expectations around 
complications beyond an advising firms reasonable control. And for the reasons given, I 
dont think thats the case here.
Overall, therefore, my view is broadly aligned with that of the investigator. I think that, had 
more timely and appropriate action been taken by TPL, and in particular with regard to the 
receiving scheme, the transfer could have completed by the deadline for the original CETV. 
Putting things right
Ive then thought about the investigators proposed calculation for redress and Im minded to 
agree. Its of course difficult to identify the exact date at which the paperwork would have 
been submitted to the ceding scheme but for the delays incurred after 11 April 2022 in the 
provision of the suitability report and the issues with forms needed by SL. But given my 
conclusion that the required interaction with SL could, and should, have happened alongside 
the advice process, I think the investigator is right that the transfer request paperwork ought 
reasonably to have been submitted to the ceding scheme by 29 April 2022. This would have 
afforded almost four weeks from TPLs initial indication of imminent issue of the suitability 
report at the beginning of April 2022, and for any abridged advice issues to resolved. And 
given the ceding schemes recommendation that the paperwork be submitted by the 
beginning of May 2022, I think this is in any case the date towards which TPL ought to have 
been working. 
The investigator has said that he thought that, given the ceding schemes comment that it could take up to three weeks after the submission of the paperwork to pay the transfer 
amount, a notional timescale of two weeks as appropriate. And although, as above, its 
difficult to know exactly how long it would have taken the scheme to pay the transfer amount 
but for the subsequent issues encountered here, on balance, I dont think this is an 
unreasonable estimate of whats more likely than not to have been the case. I think a point 
two thirds of the way through an up to estimate of prospective timescales, being neither the 
more optimistic, nor most pessimistic projection, but somewhere in the middle, is a 
reasonable estimate. And so I agree with a notional payment date of 13 May 2022. 
As such, Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited, trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services, 
should pay to Mr E the difference between the CETV he did receive, and that which he 
would have received had it been paid on 13 May 2022. As the redress cant now be paid 
directly into his pension plan, the above amount should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the CETV loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So, making a notional deduction from the compensation of an overall 15% would 
reflect this.
To the resulting sum should be added 8% pa simple interest from 13 May 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
I also agree with the investigator that this matter will have caused Mr E no small amount of 
distress and inconvenience. The reduction in the CETV was significant, and Mr E has clearly 
been troubled by what has happened. And so I agree that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited, 
trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services, should also pay Mr E £250. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited, 
trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services, to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman