DRN-1114765
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Santander UK Plc.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Santander in 1998. In 2003 they bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered thei mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he was 
made redundant.
Mr and Mrs L say they were mis-sold the policy because when they came to make claims it 
didnt pay out. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree, so their case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs L dont dispute that they bought the policy understanding they had a choice 
about it. The policy started after their original mortgage had been in place without PPI for a 
few years. Its likely that Mr and Mrs L amended their borrowing in some way I 2003 and this 
is when the PPI was sold. Santander have confirmed that the PPI wasnt compulsory. It was 
a standalone policy which could be transferred between mortgages if needed. Mr and Mrs L 
seem to have a good recollection of the meeting when it was sold. So Im satisfied Mr and 
Mrs L bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that they were assured that the PPI would cover them under any 
circumstances, but when they twice came to claim their claims were declined. Im not looking 
at whether it was right for the insurer to decline their claims, but at whether Mr and Mrs L 
were mis-sold the cover in the first place.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs L to buy the cover, so it had an obligation to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr Ls circumstances at the time 
(because it was him who was covered by the policy), I think that the cover was right for 
them. I say this because Mr L wasnt eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms 
which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to self-employment. Mr L might have been entitled to some redundancy pay, but the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this, leaving that redundancy pay to cover other 
uninsured expenses. The cost of the cover was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the 
same time and I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L.
Its possible Mr and Mrs L didnt get all the information they ideally should have done when 
they bought the policy, but I dont think more  or better- information would have changed 
their minds about buying it because it was suitable for their needs as Ive described. 
Mr and Mrs L said they tried to claim twice without success. Santander has no record of any 
declined claims. One of the claims appears to have been for an accident, but Mr L wasnt 
covered for this when he first took out the policy. That was added afterwards, in April 2006  
after his accident happened. So that may explain why it wasnt covered. The other claim was 
for redundancy but its not known why that claim would have been declined. If Mr and Mrs L 
believe that their claims were incorrectly declined they should make a specific complaint 
about this to their insurer.
So, on the information I have I dont think Mr and Mrs L lost out as a result of anything 
Santander mightve done wrong in relation to the sale of the policy.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman