DRN-2410859
The complaint
The Estate of Ms P complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim 
for subsidence made under a building insurance policy.  
What happened
This complaint has been brought by Ms A on behalf of The Estate of Ms P. For ease of 
reading Ill refer to Ms A throughout this decision and references I make to her actions 
include the actions of the other representatives of the Estate.
The policy was branded with the name of a high street bank but as Aviva is the underwriter 
of the policy, and is therefore ultimately responsible for the complaint, Ill refer to it 
throughout. It has used a number of agents to manage the claim and references I make to its 
actions include the actions of its agents, unless otherwise stated.
A previous complaint was made about a number of issues in the earlier parts of the claim 
and this was resolved by Aviva. This decision focuses on the issues that arose after this 
complaint up to the point Aviva issued its final response letter, specifically the time period 
from 16 March 2019 until 16 June 2020. 
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to the parties so Ill only provide a 
summary here.
Ms P made a claim for subsidence in February 2015
Ms A complained to Aviva about the length of time the claim was taking
Aviva apologised and paid compensation of £300 plus £1,500 for alternative 
accommodation costs; one of Avivas agents paid an additional £2,000
Sadly, Ms P took her own life in September 2019
Ms A made another complaint to Aviva in May 2020 about the issues since the 
previous complaint including delays, the quality of the work undertaken and the 
impact this had on Ms Ps mental health and, ultimately, her death
Aviva issued its final response in June 2020 and declined to pay further 
compensation on top of what it and its agent had already paid on the previous 
complaint
Our investigator considered the evidence and said Aviva had caused unnecessary 
delays during the part of the claim under review and this had caused trouble and 
upset to Ms P
She said it should pay the Estate a further £1,500 to reflect the impact of these 
delays on Ms P
Ms A said this wasnt sufficient and didnt fairly reflect the impact of Avivas actions 
She also said this missed the central issue of the complaint and that was that she 
thought Aviva was responsible for the events leading to Ms P taking her own life
She asked an ombudsman to make a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by passing on my condolences to Ms A and her siblings and acknowledging 
the very difficult circumstances around this claim and complaint. Id also like to explain that 
my role requires me to review all the evidence from an independent and unbiased 
perspective. That means, at times, my decision may seem dispassionate and matter of fact  
I mean no offence by this, its just the nature of my role in reaching a decision. 
Ill consider Avivas actions, anything it got wrong, the impact of this on Ms P and what I think 
it should do to put things right. When doing this, Ill keep in mind Avivas obligations to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and Ill take into account everything the parties have said 
about what happened including what Ms A has said about the impact on her mother.
I know Ms A holds Aviva responsible for her mother taking her own life. This isnt something 
I can consider as part of my role as an ombudsman at this service. I simply dont have the 
power to reach that kind of conclusion. It would be something better suited to a different 
authority such as a coroner for example. 
Our investigator has helpfully provided comprehensive details about Avivas actions through 
the claim, so I dont propose to repeat those here and will refer to them only in summary. Ive 
considered what happened over two time periods  firstly, the events that followed the 
previous settled complaint, up to the start of the impact of Covid. And then secondly, from 
this point until Aviva issued its final response in June 2020 
The period from March 2019
Ive carefully reviewed Avivas internal notes relating to the claim. Its clear there were a 
number of delays during this time. For example, while contractors were appointed, they were 
unable to start work for four weeks. And then the deadlines for completion of work got 
pushed back a number of times resulting in the need to chase Aviva when it failed to provide 
updates.
Following a further period when little progress was made, an onsite meeting was conducted 
and a list of outstanding work produced. This work, together with subsequent snagging 
issues, was estimated to be completed within a couple of months but ended up taking much 
longer, continuing into 2020. 
Aviva blamed this on the need to wait for better weather for some of the work to be 
completed but even allowing for this, I think this took much longer than it should have and I 
can understand why it would have distressed Ms P, having to be out of her home for 
significantly longer than necessary. 
Following this, the claim was then impacted by the widespread disruption caused by the 
Covid pandemic.
The impact of Covid from March 2020 to June 2020
The remedial works were delayed again around this time as the Covid pandemic started. As 
a consequence of this, Avivas contractors were unable to proceed with the work due to the 
various restrictions in place at the time. This resulted in the contractors being placed on 
furlough. I can see how this further delay would have made things even more inconvenient 
for Ms P but I need to keep in mind here, that much of what happened at this time was 
unprecedented and forced upon Aviva so it had little choice in the matter. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Aviva could have arranged for other contractors to take over the work and complete it more quickly. Im satisfied its more likely than not other 
contractors would have been in the same position due to the widespread impact of the 
restrictions.
The impact on the Ms A and her siblings
Ms A says Aviva indirectly caused her to lose her job and has caused her and her siblings 
distress and inconvenience. Our investigator correctly explained we can only consider the 
impact of a business actions on its customer  Ms P  when assessing awards of 
compensation. So while I acknowledge what Ms A says, I cant take it into consideration in 
reaching my decision.
I know Ms A feels the Estate may have been able to sell the house sooner or rent it out were 
it not for the delays but Ive no evidence to substantiate this supposition so I have not been 
able to consider it in reaching my decision.
Putting things right
I have kept in mind my decision is focused on a specific period of the claim  approximately 
15 months - so I have focused on what Aviva did during this period.
I know Ms P was required to leave the home shed lived in with her husband all her adult life 
while the work was being completed and she found this very difficult. Incidences of 
subsidence by their nature are likely to take time to resolve and cause the homeowner 
significant inconvenience and stress.
But I think Aviva could have done a much better job handling this period of the claim for the 
reasons Ive explained above. Its clear to me its failings caused Ms P considerable distress 
and inconvenience at a time when she was already clearly vulnerable. I say this as weve 
been given evidence to support she was experiencing chronic back pain, other serious 
health issues as well as an extended history of sleep problems. 
I have thought very carefully about this complaint. And taking everything into consideration, I 
have concluded Aviva should pay the Estate £1,500 in addition to what it and its agent have 
already paid in recognition of the impact of its failings on the late Ms P. I realise Ms A is 
unlikely to think this accurately reflects the impact on her mother but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
The Estate of Ms P £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman