DRN-4002991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained about poor workmanship when repairs were carried out because 
of their claim. Mr and Mrs R had a home insurance policy provided by Ageas Insurance 
Limited (Ageas).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim to Ageas when a storm damaged the roof of their 
garage. Ageas agreed to replace the damaged roof with a new one. However, Mr and Mrs R 
were unhappy with the workmanship of Ageas contractors. 
Mr and Mrs R said the new roof was too heavy for the supporting wooden beam, which 
resulted in it dropping and Mr and Mrs R were no longer able to close their garage doors.
Ageas sent back the workman who carried out the initial work to inspect the issues. Based 
upon the inspection, Ageas acknowledged the repairs carried out fell short of the standard 
required. Ageas issued a cheque for £150 to compensate Mr and Mrs R for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ageas offered to rectify the works using the same contractor, but Mr 
and Mrs R didnt trust his work. So, they werent happy for the contractor to reattend to put 
the damage right. So, instead Ageas offered a cash settlement of £2,328.
Mr and Mrs R rejected the cash settlement. Theyd been advised by their own contractors 
that the structural integrity of the garage had been compromised and the garage needed to 
be removed and replaced with a new structure. 
Ageas said the issues with the garage were long standing in nature  so their settlement was 
based on correcting the roof which it said was its liability under the policy. Mr and Mrs R said 
the cash settlement offered wouldnt cover the costs of a new garage. Ageas said the quotes 
provided by Mr and Mrs R were not on a like for like basis and are for a better-quality 
garage.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought there was evidence the garage 
was no longer structurally sound and needed replacing. So, he said Ageas should either 
remove and replace the garage using a different contractor or pay the costs Mr and Mrs R 
have been quoted to have the work done by their own contractors. Ageas disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 2 February 2023. I said:
I would normally say that I think its reasonable for a contractor to have the opportunity to 
rectify his works. However, I dont think its appropriate here due to the strength of feeling 
from Mr and Mrs R and my concern that the stress may add to their already vulnerable 
circumstances. As Mr and Mrs R werent going to allow the same contractor to complete the 
works, I think Ageas approach to try and cash settle the claim was a reasonable one.
The difficulty is the cash settlement offered doesnt allow Mr and Mrs R to do the work that 
they think is necessary. However, Ageas has said the offer is consistent with its liability 
under the policy. Id certainly agree with Ageas on the point of liability if the offer was made 
before any work was carried out. The initial damage was to the roof  not the whole garage 
structure. I havent seen any dispute on this point.
However, Ive considered that Mr and Mrs R has said that the poor workmanship from 
Ageas contractors has caused structural damage to the garage which they say now means 
the only possible course of action is for the garage to be demolished and re-built. Mr and 
Mrs R have provided many annotated pictures which they think highlights the damage 
caused by the poor workmanship. I find the detail and explanation included in these 
annotated pictures to be very persuasive.
Mr and Mrs R has provided reports from three separate contractors on the condition of the 
garage after Ageas contractors carried out the work. 
The first contractor stated in his report upon inspection of [the] garage we would 
recommend that it is demolished as it's no longer structurally safe, the roof panels that have 
been installed are too heavy and have bowed out the sides of the garage.
The second contractor stated in his report on inspecting the garage, I found several points 
of concern. The roofing material used to repair it was far too heavy for the roof structure 
causing the roof to sink on to the walls about 10mm. This weight has caused the walls to 
splay out. Daylight is clearly visible at the far end of the garage in the roof area. Owing to the 
roof sinking, the doors cannot be closed. Overall, the garage in my professional opinion is in 
a very dangerous condition and should be pulled down.
The third contractor stated in his report after having taken a look at your garage roof, it is in 
my opinion that the garage needs to be taken down, there appears to be too much weight on 
the roof which isn't currently designed [to] support this level of weight. It appears this is 
causing the garage walls/frame to fail under the pressure. There is visible daylight showing 
which will allow water to penetrate. The garage door/frame is no longer able to close due to 
movement driven by weight. In the meantime, I would advise against going inside the 
garage, or leaving your car in there, at least until the weight issue is rectified or the garage is 
reinforced.
Ageas said these reports arent independent as the contractors also quoted for the 
replacement of the garage. I do appreciate its viewpoint. However, the contractors have 
provided a consistent view that the structural integrity of the garage has been compromised 
due to the work that had been done by Ageas contractor on the roof. The fact there are 
three different contractors providing this assessment persuades me that the garage does 
need demolishing and needs to be re-built.
I have noted Ageas in its final response said the damage to the garage itself is long 
standing and not as a result of the poor repairs that were carried out and it went on to 
explain some of these pre-existing issues. However, I dont find this statement persuasive as 
it contradicts the survey report that was carried out by Ageas contractors when the claim 
was initially validated. The report shows some questions and answers. It states is the 
overall condition and maintenance of the property good? YES. Is there any evidence of pre-
existing or long-term damage? NO. The report doesnt mention any long standing issues at 
all.
I intend to uphold this complaint. I think the evidence shows that it is more likely poor 
workmanship from Ageas contractors weakened the structural integrity of the garage. 
Therefore, I think this was Ageas responsibility, so I intend for it now to rectify this by having the garage demolished and re-built on a like for like basis (meeting current safety 
standards).
I still think Ageas should have opportunity to correct its error, but I think its appropriate in 
these circumstances that Ageas uses a different contractor. If Ageas doesnt want to do this, 
then I intend it cash settles the claim using the lowest quote Mr and Mrs R has provided for 
the safe removal of their current garage and to supply and fit a new one.
Mr and Mrs R have explained the circumstances of this claim have increased their levels of 
stress. They already have issues in their day to day lives. I think Mr and Mrs R have 
provided significant and thorough information to try and help Ageas reach a reasonable 
outcome to this claim. This will have inconvenienced them, and I think it will also have been 
stressful for them when Ageas didnt really seem to take this information into consideration.
I dont think the £150 Ageas has offered reasonably compensates Mr and Mrs R. I think the 
distress and inconvenience was greater than Ageas has reflected in its offer. I think the 
stresses added to Mr and Mrs Rs vulnerable circumstances. Therefore, I intend to award 
£400 in compensation (£250 more than Ageas offered).
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs R accepted my decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Ageas also accepted my decision and didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Either safely remove the garage and re-build a new like for like garage, or cash settle 
the claim based upon the quotes provided by Mr and Mrs R.
Pay £250 additional compensation for distress and inconvenience (Ageas should 
ensure the total paid is £400 if the initial cheque it issued hasnt been cashed). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman