DRN-3880588
The complaint
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr O complains the level of redress Zurich Assurance ltd (Zurich) have offered following his 
upheld pension complaint to them is unfair. He doesnt feel it puts him back in the same 
position had the mistake not occurred.
Hed now like Zurich to increase their offer.
What happened
Mr O originally held a personal pension plan with Sun Alliance, which is now with Phoenix 
Life. The plan included a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). In 1993, Zurich advised Mr O to 
reduce his payments into the Sun Alliance plan and start payments into a replacement 
Zurich policy.
Mr O complained about that advice in March 2019 and, after reviewing the documentation 
from the time, Zurich upheld his complaint and determined it wasnt in his best interests to 
have made those changes given the existence of the GAR.
Mr O took the annuity with the fund that remained at Phoenix when he reached his 65th 
birthday.
Shortly after his 65th birthday in January 2021, Zurich undertook a loss calculation to 
establish the impact of the incorrect advice from 1993. They determined that had Mr O 
remained with Sun Alliance (Phoenix) and maintained his pension payments there, the 
annuity he received from them wouldve been £3,482.72 gross per annum higher. Having 
considered Zurichs assessment, Mr O was satisfied with Zurichs calculation of the shortfall 
in his pension payments. However, Mr O didnt feel that was enough and wants Zurich to 
pay him £155,000 to put things right. Having researched the market, Mr O believes it would 
cost £155,000 to replicate the same benefits hes lost if he were to purchase an annuity 
himself. 
In settlement of his complaint, Zurich offered Mr O a lump sum of £82,491.37 to put things 
right. In reaching their settlement offer, Zurich looked at the Office for National Statistics 
data, which suggested Mr O was likely to live until age 85. They then worked out, taking 
account of investment growth that he could receive on the monies, what theyd need to pay 
him to replicate those benefits in a single, one-off lump sum. It added this figure to the 
monthly payments he had already missed out on. 
Mr O raised concerns with Zurich about their calculation methodology in February 2021. He 
told them, in summary, hes unhappy that hes now reliant on the investment returns of a 
lump sum as, had he remained with the original scheme, hed have received a guaranteed 
income for life. He also said, in summary:
the assumptions used by Zurich were unrealistic and resulted in a lower level of redress 
than he believes hes entitled to.
hes unhappy that Zurich have only assumed hell live until age 85. In doing so, he feels 
this lessens the redress he believes hes entitled to.
In response to Mr O, Zurich explained their position remained the same. They said it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to make certain assumptions. They said making such assumptions 
was commonplace across the financial services industry and they needed to do so to help 
arrive at what they felt was a fair assessment.
Mr O was unhappy with Zurichs response. He complained to this service setting out the 
same concerns. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that Zurich 
had treated Mr O fairly. He also said, in summary:
it was reasonable for Zurich to make the assumptions they did in calculating the redress 
offered to Mr O.
the calculations Zurich had provided demonstrated theyd taken account of the 5% 
annual increase of the lost annuity funds and the solution put forward provided greater 
flexibility to Mr O than had he taken a single annuity.
Mr O, however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, he repeated his 
concerns and said the following:
It was unreasonable for Zurich to use data from the Office of National Statistics when 
calculating his life expectancy.
He believes Zurich should pay him a lump sum of £155,000 rather than the £82,491.37 
theyve offered. Mr O believes the higher amount would have allowed him to purchase 
benefits that mirror what hes lost from the Sun Alliance plan.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Mr O did not present any new 
arguments hed not already considered or responded to already.
Mr O asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the dispute, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mr Os complaint. After reviewing my provisional decision, Zurich 
contacted this service and confirmed they accepted my decision. Having considered my 
provisional decision, Mr O asked for additional clarification on the redress; he explained he 
still didnt think it was fair because the lump sum Zurich were offering would still be less than 
that needed to purchase an equivalent annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that what I didnt think is in any doubt here, is that Zurich 
were right to uphold Mr Os complaint to them. Zurich have accepted their original advice wasnt right and have tried to put things right with Mr O. Whats at the heart of this dispute is 
whether the solution Zurich have put forward is fair and reasonable.
Ive looked closely at the calculations Zurich have undertaken in establishing the income 
shortfall Mr O has suffered as a result of their incorrect advice. Had he remained with Sun 
Alliance, the income he received wouldve amounted to £13,042 p.a. Taking account of the 
annuity hes now receiving of £6,786 p.a. as well as the annuity he could purchase with the 
existing Zurich funds of £2,772 p.a., results in an income shortfall of £3,482 p.a. Its this 
latter amount Zurich have determined needs to be made good and Im satisfied with that part 
of their assessment, as is Mr O. 
When mistakes occur, it is important consumers are treated fairly when firms look to put 
things right. Put simply, that means the business must place the customer back into the 
same position, or as close to the same position they wouldve been in had the incorrect 
advice not taken place. We know that as Mr O was advised to divert his premiums away 
from the Sun Alliance plan and into a Zurich policy, that cant be unwound. So, I need to 
consider whether the solution proposed by Zurich places Mr O as close to the same position 
he wouldve been in had the advice to divert his premiums not occurred.
The annuity Mr O received from Sun Alliance is for a single life, with a five-year guarantee 
providing a 5% escalation thats payable monthly in advance. 
In my provisional decision, I also explained theres a number of ways Mr O could be placed 
back in as close to the same position as possible, the first is via an annuity. That could take 
the form of either a pension annuity or a purchased life annuity (PLA). Another route would 
be for Zurich to pay a lump sum to Mr O so he could buy an annuity for himself on the open 
market. Alternatively, Mr O could be provided with a capital lump sum from which to draw 
down income payments. Zurich have offered Mr O the latter option, deriving the lump sum 
from its own assumptions. However, Mr O wants £155,000 so he can go out and buy his 
own annuity.
Zurich have discounted purchasing a pension annuity for Mr O. Theyre of the view that 
doing so would result in a loss of enhanced protection and impact his annual allowance too. 
This isnt unreasonable; purchasing a pension annuity in this way would involve a significant, 
one-off, contribution. We wouldnt expect a business to disadvantage someone in this way 
so I dont think Zurich is in the wrong in rejecting that approach in this respect. 
So, Ive thought carefully about whether Zurich should buy Mr O a PLA instead or whether 
its acceptable for them to offer him a lump sum from which to draw an income in lieu of that 
annuity. Ive also considered whether Zurich should give Mr O a lump sum so he can go out 
and buy his own annuity. Having thought carefully about this, Im not convinced providing Mr 
O with a lump sum to allow him to purchase his own annuity is the right solution. Thats 
because were compensating him for a regular income until death which a PLA would 
immediately achieve.
Ive looked closely at Zurichs original offer. Its been necessary for Zurich to make a number 
of assumptions when reaching a final redress capital sum. One of those is Mr Os likely 
lifespan which Zurich have determined is 85 years old. Theyve reached that age by 
reference to the Office of National Statistics website. After taking account of the 5% 
escalation Mr O wouldve received had he stayed with Sun Alliance, Zurich have then 
discounted the final lump sum back to take account of an assumed annual investment return 
of 1% he could receive if he invested the pot.
Im not convinced by Mr Os arguments that its unfair of Zurich to utilize the ONS assumed 
longevity calculator. The ONS is independent from Zurich and I believe its necessary for Zurich to have an informed end point to which their calculations would need to be based on. 
In addition, when pricing annuities, product providers also need to rely on such data so, in 
my view, I dont believe Zurich have deviated from common industry practice on this point.
Im also not persuaded by Mr Os arguments about Zurichs use of the 1% discount / return 
factor. I believe theyve been conservative in nature and, based on a cautious/ low risk rate 
of return, Im of the view that approach is reasonable.
The redress payment proposed by Zurich already takes account of the 20% income tax that 
Mr O would have had to pay had he remained with Sun Alliance and taken the annuity so the 
payment will be net in Mr Os hands. Thisll replicate how the benefit would be taxed had it 
stayed with Sun Alliance. 
Allied to this, I should note that in their calculations, Zurich have assumed that Mr Os 
existing Appropriate Personal Pension plan with them would yield £22 per £1,000 in income. 
I well suspect that, if he were to exercise the open market option on that policy now, it would 
result in a much higher income, particularly given the recent improvements to annuity rates 
over recent weeks. I understand from Zurich that Mr O has not yet crystalised that policy.
The lump sum payment would offer Mr O the flexibility to vary the income he draws either in 
the early or later years and Im satisfied Zurichs assumptions have been modest in nature 
too. Allied to this, as Mr O is married, the lump sum would provide death benefits for his 
spouse, even after the 5th year which the annuity would not. From what Ive seen, the 
solution put forward by Zurich would enable him to replace the lost benefits from the Sun 
Alliance plan. Whilst I accept its not necessarily in an identical format it is a fair and 
reasonable alternative.
Ive thought carefully about whether Zurich should buy Mr O a PLA instead. I dont think Mr 
O is being unreasonable in expecting Zurich to replicate the fixed income hes lost as a 
result of their error. However, I also dont think Zurich has been unfair or unreasonable either 
in the approach theyve taken to try and put things right. It has offered a cash sum to sort out 
the complaint quickly and informally, and the assumptions theyve used look plausible. 
Broadly that cash sum is about right to compensate Mr O. So, it wouldnt necessarily be fair 
and reasonable to rip things up and start again. However, its important to recognise that if 
Mr O does outlive the ONS anticipated mortality age or, if the assumptions Zurich have used 
prove to be incorrect, Mr O may end up worse off. Whilst I do agree with Zurich in so much 
as I think it unreasonable for them to purchase a pension annuity, a PLA is an alternate 
solution to this and the file is silent on whether this was even explored as a possible solution 
with Mr O. It therefore follows that Im upholding Mr Os complaint and will ask Zurich to offer 
Mr O two options; either buy him a PLA to replicate his lost income (with an appropriate level 
of compensation for the income he has already missed out on) or offer Mr O a cash sum in 
line with its original approach albeit amended to bring it up to date. In this way, Mr O has a 
choice and his concerns about Zurichs assumptions and about outliving his capital sum are 
catered for.
After receiving my provisional decision, Mr O again explained he felt the calculation 
approach Zurich was adopting was unfair because their lump sum wouldnt match that 
needed to purchase an equivalent annuity. However, I explained to Mr O that I didnt agree 
with his perspective because included within the typical purchase cost of an annuity, a 
provider would include their wider associated expenses such as marketing, IT and 
administration which, Zurich wouldnt incur by directly paying Mr O a lump sum. Allied to 
that, as Ive already explained above, the lump sum works in a different way in generating 
the replacement income compared to the annuity. In addition, should Mr O decide he wished 
to accept the PLA in settlement of his complaint, the purchase price of that is for Zurich to 
bear, so that cost is inconsequential to him. So, as there is no new information to consider it follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision, the details of which I have set out above and I therefore require Zurich 
to put things right in the manner Ive set out below.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr O, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in had it not been for their error.
As Ive already said, I think Zurichs original approach was acceptable albeit it didnt 
address Mr Os original desire for a guaranteed income for life. Taking that into account 
and given the passage of time thats now elapsed, I believe Zurich should give Mr O a 
choice of how things should be put right: the flexibility of a lump sum payment which 
provides the opportunity to vary the income he receives and leaves a legacy on death, as 
Zurich have already offered, or the option of buying a purchased life annuity for him that 
replicates the lost benefits. 
Approach 1: As some time has now elapsed since Zurich undertook their loss calculation, 
they must revisit their approach to update their original settlement offer of £82,491.37. This 
should take account of payments that Mr O would have received but, to date, hasnt. It 
should also take account of the fewer future annuity payments that now need to be made. 
Zurich can use the same assumptions as previously and should use the date of settlement 
as their end point.
Approach 2: Alternatively, if Mr O would prefer, Zurich should offer to buy Mr O a single life 
PLA, with a five-year guarantee providing a 5% escalation thats payable monthly in 
advance. The PLA should match the same income he would have obtained from the Sun 
Alliance plan, £3,482.72 gross, per annum. 
Under either approach, Zurich must account for the annuity payments Mr O has missed out 
on. It should do this as follows:
Zurich must work out how many income payments Mr O has not received since his 
65th birthday to the date of settlement.
Zurich should then add 8% simple interest from the date each amount should have 
been paid to the date of actual payment and pay this amount to Mr O.
Where interest is being added at 8% simple per annum, this is likely to be subject to tax 
applied by HM Revenue & Customs. If Zurich deducts tax, it should tell Mr O how much it 
has taken off. It should also give Mr O a certificate showing this, if requested by Mr O so he 
may reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Zurich must write to Mr O setting out the revised calculations and options in a simple, easy 
to understand format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr O the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman