DRN-1414291
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs W complain that a car they purchased through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
Billing Finance Ltd (BFL) wasn't fit for purpose. They would like to either swap or reject the 
car. Or to reduce the payments for the car.
What happened
Mr W says he and his wife took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with BFL in October 2015. 
This was for a seven-year-old car with 57,000 miles on the clock.
Mr W says they had problems with the car juddering from when they first got it. He says over 
four years they have only travelled 15,000 miles in the car. He says the car was looked at 
five times in a garage. And although various work was done the garage couldn't resolve the 
juddering issue.
BFL said Mr and Mrs W first complained in June 2019 when they received the recall notice 
from the manufacturer. It noted the garage information that Mr and Mrs W supplied which 
confirmed that  several unsuccessful attempts had  been made to resolve the
juddering  and engine  cutting  out  issue. Also,  that  a  full service  of the  fuel  pump,  
, spark plugs, ABS and  02 sensors had  been conducted. However, as Mr and Mrs W had 
already had the car for over three years when they complained it didn't feel it had sufficient 
information to show there was a problem present or developing at the point of sale for which 
it was responsible. It wanted to arrange an independent inspection but Mr and Mrs W didn't 
agree to this. They didn't feel the need to do so. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He found it was likely there was  fault present or 
developing at the point of sale. He found that the symptoms noted in four garage visits 
matched the symptoms on a recall notice. He felt the problem was one that could be 
repaired - he noted the recall notice said the car could be taken into a garage to be repaired. 
He felt this was a fair resolution and that BFL didn't need to do anything else.
BFL accepted this view but Mr and Mrs W didn't. Mr W said the car was inherently faulty, 
and had been off the road a lot. He said he could voluntarily terminate the car (VT). And as a 
solution suggested he did this if BFL made no charge for the car from when he first 
complained.
He then provided additional information to show there was a  problem with a faulty driveshaft 
which would cost £1935 to repair. He said he would be happy if BFL paid this cost, released 
him from his contract and allowed him to keep the car.
Our investigator considered these points but didn't change his view. He noted that the recall 
notice had now been dealt with. He didn't feel there was any evidence that there had been a 
problem present or developing with the driveshaft at the point of sale. And clarified that in his 
first view that the repair redress only related to the recall notice.Mr and Mrs W didn't accept this further view. Mr W said the video evidence he had sent in 
stated that the driveshaft would cause the juddering that had been a problem from first 
having the car. So he believed the problem was still present despite the recall notice having 
been addressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W feel strongly about this. So I appreciate they will be disappointed as I've 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
It's clear from the information Mr and Mrs W have given us that they had a problem with the 
car juddering from when they first got it. I can see from the garage reports that they had the 
car looked at in October 2015, February 2016, October 2016,April 2017 and February 2018.
The garage confirmed there was an ongoing issue with  the car jerking, a loss of engine 
power and the engine cutting out. It said it made various repairs but was unable to resolve 
the issue.
I am mindful that Mr and Mrs W bought a seven-year-old car which already had over 50,000 
miles on the clock when they got it.  It would be reasonable to expect a used car to have 
some wear  tear and repair issues  more so than with a new car.
However, we do expect cars to be fit for purpose and of sufficient quality at the point of sale. 
We usually say that if problems arise within the first six months that it's the business 
responsibility to see if  the problems were present or developing at the point of sale. And if 
so, we usually feel its fair to allow the business one opportunity to repair.
When Mr and Mrs W complained to BFL in June 2019 it asked to carry out an independent 
inspection. I think this was a reasonable suggestion since by this time Mr and Mrs W had 
had the car for over three years. Independent inspections are usually very detailed and give 
a view as to  whether any  issues were present at the point of sale. They are independent of 
the business, the supplying dealership and the consumer.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W had supplied some information from the garage that looked at 
their car a number of times. But the report given by the garage made no comment as to 
whether the issues experienced were present or developing at the point of sale. And was 
unable to identify and resolve the issue.So I don't think it was unreasonable of BFL to 
request an independent report to get more information.
I am surprised Mr and Mrs W didn't agree to this. Hopefully the report would have given both 
them and BFL the information needed to resolve this complaint.
With no independent report to consider I can only look at the information I have. The recall 
notice from the manufacturer advised the plug in contact needed to be replaced as soon as 
possible. It gave a list of early symptoms of this fault which included a jerking or momentary 
loss of power from the engine. That description matches the main problem Mr and Mrs W 
had which is  noted in the garage information Mr W gave us.
I understand the recall fault has now been resolved. But when this work was carried out a 
problem was identified with the driveshaft was noted which required repairing at a cost of 
£1,935.Mr W has sent us a video which he says states the driveshaft will cause the juddering which 
he experienced from first having the car. So he doesn't feel that the recall resolved the 
problem and thinks BFL should cover the cost of this work.
I have watched the video Mr W sent us. I am afraid I don't agree with his assessment of it. 
The video notes 'the drive shafts are shiny, at the reluctor rings, this can bring up juddering'.  
I don't find that conclusive. And from the garage information Mr W has given us I haven't 
been able to find any reference to an issue with the driveshaft. 
In order for me to ask BFL to do something to resolve the driveshaft problem I would need to 
have sufficient information to persuade me this fault was present or developing at the point 
of sale. But I just don't think I have this. So on that basis I can't reasonably ask BFL to let Mr 
and Mrs W reject the car, replace it with another, reduce their repayments, cover the cost of 
the driveshaft repair or allow them to keep the car with no further payments all of which Mr 
and Mrs W have suggested as possible redress.
Finally, I am mindful that Mr and Mrs W have made a couple of other points that I need to 
address. They have commented on their low mileage as a result of problems with the car. 
And the amount of times the car has been into a garage.
It's hard for me to comment on the mileage. Everyone's usage of a car is different. And 
whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs W 's car has been inspected five times over four years I have 
no evidence to show that they have been without use of the car for extended periods. Or that 
their use of the car has been unduly restricted. So on that basis I don't feel I can ask BFL to 
do anything to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020..
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman