DRN-1384125
 
The complaint
Ms T says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms T took out a Barclays credit card in 1995. At the same time, Barclays sold her PPI to 
protect her card repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms T didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Ms T that she had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
her agreement before adding it. I gather the sale took place at a branch meeting and its now 
difficult to say with any certainty what happened at the time. 
Ive carefully considered what Ms T says about how the PPI was sold, including that she 
didnt knowingly agree to take it. That may be the case, but Ive seen a copy of her signed 
credit card application form. In it, she was given the option to tick to either request or decline 
PPI. The box to take PPI was ticked while the box to decline it was left blank. 
In addition, its now many years since the PPI was sold. In my view that makes it more 
difficult for me to rely on what Ms T remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  she was told about the PPI but simply doesnt recall 
taking it.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Ms T that 
she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Ms Ts complaint, but 
I dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Ms T. That favours her 
because it meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether it was right 
for her. 
I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. But, from what I know of Ms Ts 
circumstances, I think the PPI was right for her. I say that because:It seems Ms T would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest she was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy. Shes more recently indicated she worked part-time, and that might have 
stopped her from claiming. But Im inclined to rely on the information she provided at 
the time of the application  and that indicates she was working full-time.
While Ms T says she had savings, the PPI benefits would still potentially have paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim. The benefits could well have allowed her to retain 
her savings or put them towards covering her other living costs if she was off work. 
And the benefits would have been paid in addition to any sick pay she was entitled 
to. So, I think the PPI provided Ms T with useful additional protection. 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Ms T. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer 
wanted it.
 
As well as checking if the PPI was right for her, Barclays also should have given Ms T clear 
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Ms T agreed to the cover 
and it looks to me as if it was right for her and was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information would have affected her decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms T about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Ms T any extra interest she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms T the difference 
between what Ms T owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Ms T 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms T can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax. 
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman