DRN-3855201
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service and settlement he received from 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) following a fire damage claim he made on 
his contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his contents insurance policy following a fire. There is a dispute over 
the amount Lloyds has paid in settlement of this claim. Mr A says numerous items havent 
been included in Lloyds calculations and that the values placed on certain items are too low. 
Mr A also disputes Lloyds decision not to cover costs he incurred for alternative 
accommodation. He also says he carried out significant renovations to his flat including 
installing a new kitchen and bathroom suite. He wants Lloyds to cover these elements under 
the tenants improvements cover included in his policy.
Lloyds says its settlement has been based on a detailed inventory taken by its loss adjuster. 
It says many of the costs submitted by Mr A were overstated, and that items on his inventory 
were duplicated. It says Mr A hasnt been able to sufficiently substantiate many of the 
additional items he is seeking to claim for.
Lloyds agrees Mr As property was rendered uninhabitable by the fire. But it says Mr A was 
immediately moved into another property by his local authority. So, in those circumstances, it 
says no payment for alternative accommodation is due.
Lloyds says no claim for tenants improvement has been made by Mr A. But it accepts this 
cover was in place, subject to a £5,000 limit. 
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said neither side had provided detailed evidence supporting the costs for the items 
damaged by the fire. But he noted the onus was on Mr A to substantiate his loss. So, in the 
circumstances he concluded the amount paid by Lloyds was fair.
Our investigator agreed that no payment toward alternative accommodation was warranted 
as Mr A wasnt without somewhere to live, or incurring additional accommodation costs, as a 
result of the claim. And he said Lloyds was correct to say that the tenants improvement 
cover had a limit of £5,000.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to that reached by our investigator, so I 
issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts, and allowing the parties the 
opportunity to reply before I reached a final decision. Heres what I said in my provisional 
decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the available evidence and arguments, Im minded to reach a 
slightly different outcome to that reached by our investigator. Ill explain why 
addressing each issue in turn.
Alternative accommodation
Given that Mr As alternative accommodation was being supplied and funded by his 
local authority I dont consider that he has suffered a loss as a result of the claim. So, 
in these circumstances I dont think Lloyds needs to make any payment under Mr As 
alternative accommodation cover.
The contents claim
Lloyds appointed loss adjuster completed a detailed loss report including taking 
photographs and videos of the damage caused by the fire. The loss adjuster pulled 
together an inventory of damaged contents based on its report and a list supplied by 
Mr A.
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds asked him to provide a cost for each item, then reduced 
the costs he provided. But I wouldnt expect Lloyds to simply pay Mr A the amount he 
estimated each item was worth. Its reasonable that Lloyds would conduct its own 
investigations to verify the costs quoted by Mr A.
Lloyds has explained why the value of certain items was reduced. For example, the 
costs for a fridge-freezer, washing machine and hoover were reduced following 
online searches which confirmed the same items were available for a cheaper price 
than quoted. Mr As policy covers him for replacement of the damaged items, rather 
than the original amount they were purchased for. So, I consider Lloyds approach 
here was fair and reasonable.
There were also many items included on Mr As list where Lloyds says the values 
appeared high. For example, a shirt which Mr A suggested was worth £1,350 or 
several pictures he says were worth several hundred pounds each. Lloyds has 
explained that when a claim appears overstated, or a value placed on an item 
appears high, it would request additional supporting evidence to help it validate the 
claim. But in this case, Mr A hasnt been able to provide any further supporting 
evidence, so Lloyds has reduced the amounts its prepared to pay toward these 
items. 
As our investigator highlighted, its ultimately the policyholders responsibility to 
substantiate their loss. So, as Mr A hasnt been able to supply any additional 
evidence to support the costs he placed on various items, I consider the approach 
taken by Lloyds to be fair and reasonable. I havent seen anything from Mr A which 
would lead me to conclude that the £25,000 settlement paid by Lloyds was 
insufficient to cover the items included on the loss adjusters inventory. Mr A has also argued that numerous items werent included in the loss adjusters 
inventory. He says various items were stolen from the property following the fire. 
Lloyds has advised that Mr A would need to raise a separate theft claim for any items 
he believes were stolen. I appreciate Mr A doesnt wish to raise a separate theft 
claim. But I think Lloyds is correct to say that a separate claim would need to be 
raised. This is because there would be a clearly separate cause of loss  theft as 
opposed to fire damage. So, Ill not comment further on the items Mr A says have 
been stolen.
Mr A has also provided numerous photos of items he says were damaged by the fire, 
but not included in the loss adjusters inventory. Lloyds has suggested that these 
items were not in the property at the time of the inventory, and that many of the items 
(particularly the clothing) appear undamaged in the photos provided. And I agree. 
The photos Ive seen, in isolation, dont persuade me that the items were most likely 
damaged beyond economical repair in the fire at Mr As property. So, Im not 
intending to direct Lloyds to increase the settlement based solely on the pictures 
Mr A has provided. 
Mr A has pointed out that the inventory doesnt include his food items, carpets, 
curtains or many of his light fittings which were damaged in the fire. From what Ive 
seen, some lighting and food items were included in the inventory. If Mr A is 
suggesting other food items or light fittings were damaged, he should provide any 
supporting evidence he has to Lloyds for consideration. And should a further dispute 
arise from this, it can be dealt with under a separate complaint. But, based on what 
Ive currently seen, Im not minded to conclude that the food or light fittings have 
been missed from the inventory or settlement. So, Ill not be recommending an 
increase in the settlement based on these items.
That said, I can see from the loss adjusters report that there were carpets and 
curtains in situ which appear to have been damaged by the fire. These items arent 
included in the inventory and I havent seen any explanation from Lloyds as to why it 
feels these items shouldnt be covered. So, unless Lloyds response to this 
provisional decision persuades me it was reasonable for these items to be excluded 
from the settlement, Im intending to direct Lloyds to cover the damaged curtains and 
carpets.
Tenants improvements
Mr A has said he carried out roughly £20,000 worth of improvements to his flat, 
including installing a new kitchen and bathroom suite. These were damaged by the 
fire and Mr A wants Lloyds to cover his losses.
Lloyds says its not clear whether Mr A has actually made a claim for these items. But 
it has acknowledged that Mr A does have tenants improvements cover, subject to a 
£5,000 policy limit.
The policy booklet explains this cover as:
We will pay for loss of or damage to fixed items of decoration and home 
improvements you make as a tenant, if caused by an event covered under 
contents covers 1-11 and accidental damage if you have the contents  
optional accidental damage cover.By tenants improvements we mean those improvements to your home you 
have provided and which are not the responsibility of your landlord  for 
example, shed, greenhouse, fitted kitchen, bathroom suite, laminate flooring.
The most we will pay for any one event is £5,000.
As Lloyds says it hasnt considered a claim under the tenants improvement cover, 
then the outcome of that (future) claim cannot form part of this (current) complaint. 
But I think Lloyds should consider Mr As claim for fire damage to the parts of the flat 
covered under the tenants improvement section in line with the policy terms. Should 
Mr A be unhappy with Lloyds decision on this claim  once it is reached  hes free 
to raise a complaint with Lloyds. And should Mr A remain unhappy following this 
potential future complaint, he can refer that complaint to our service, subject to our 
normal rules.
I accept Lloyds hasnt yet considered Mr As claim for tenants improvements. But I 
think it reasonably ought to have done so by now. I say this because I think it was 
clear from the figures Mr A set out in emails to Lloyds in November 2021 that he 
wanted to claim for damage which could potentially fall under the tenants 
improvements part of his policy. 
By not considering Mr As claim for tenants improvements sooner, I think Lloyds has 
caused an unreasonable delay and that Mr A has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience as a result of this. So, in addition to amending the settlement to 
include the carpets and curtains which appear to have been omitted, Im also 
intending to direct Lloyds to pay Mr A £200 compensation for its error here.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and said it broadly accepted my findings. 
Lloyds said it was prepared to consider a settlement for the damaged carpets and to 
reassess any remaining tenants improvements (which was separate from my intended 
award). It also agreed the £200 compensation was reasonable. However, Lloyds highlighted 
that the curtains had already been included in the cash settlement and had been captured 
on the loss adjusters inventory as blinds.
Mr A also responded to my provisional decision. He provided a large number of documents, 
photos and emails which he said were evidence of missed items of contents from the 
settlement. He also provided information from his local authority which he said showed he 
has been asked to pay back money for the alternative accommodation he received. So, he 
said Lloyds should cover the alternative accommodation costs hes now being asked to 
repay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why in more detail below, along with what this 
means for Mr As claim moving forward.The curtains
In my provisional decision I said Lloyds settlement had omitted the curtains from the 
settlement. Lloyds highlighted that the curtains were included in the loss adjusters inventory 
as blinds and so were included in the settlement paid to Mr A.
So, my decision on what is fair in respect of the curtains (that they should be included in the 
settlement) remains unchanged. But as Lloyds has already paid a settlement for them (albeit 
listed as blinds), there is nothing further for Lloyds to do in relation to this item.
The carpets and tenants improvements
Lloyds has agreed to cover the damaged carpets, subject to evidence they were owned by 
Mr A. But as I understand it, Mr A would have been required to provide the carpet for his flat, 
as local authorities do not supply this. So, I think Lloyds ought to cover the fire damaged 
carpets without requiring specific proof of ownership from Mr A. That said, Mr A should 
provide any supporting evidence he has available in order to help Lloyds calculate a fair 
settlement.
Lloyds has also agreed to consider any further tenants improvements which Mr A can 
evidence he carried out, subject to the policy limit. I think this offer is fair.
Should a disagreement arise about the offer(s) of settlement, which is or are eventually 
made, that would need to be dealt with separately as a new complaint, and with Lloyds in the 
first instance. If Mr A were to remain unhappy following that, he could refer that complaint to 
our service, subject to our normal rules.
Alternative accommodation
Mr A provided screenshots of a text message conversation and a letter from his local 
authority which explained he was being asked to repay around £5,000 for funds he received 
toward housing.
I put this new information to Lloyds for its comments. Lloyds said it would be prepared to 
reconsider Mr As claim for alternative accommodation. However, it highlighted that the 
evidence provided by Mr A said he was being asked to repay housing costs from the period 
March 2020 to July 2021. And this claim wasnt made until July 2021. So, based on the 
evidence Mr A has provided to this point, Lloyds said its position is unchanged because the 
evidence doesnt show that Mr A incurred costs for the alternative accommodation he was 
placed in following the fire. 
I think Lloyds offer to reconsider this element of Mr As claim, subject to evidence that Mr A 
has incurred costs for the alternative accommodation, is fair and reasonable. But as it 
stands, I agree that the evidence available doesnt show that Mr A has incurred any costs for 
the alternative accommodation he was placed in during the period of the claim. So, Ill not be 
directing Lloyds to take any further action at this stage. But should Mr A provide further 
relevant evidence, I would expect Lloyds to consider it, in line with the offer it has made to do 
so.The contents claim
Mr A has provided a significant number of emails and photos, in response to my provisional 
decision. I had already seen the majority of this information prior to reaching my provisional 
findings. So, these duplicate documents havent changed my conclusions. I explained in my 
provisional decision that the photos Mr A provided, in isolation, did not persuade me that the 
items were damaged beyond repair in the fire at Mr As home. And my decision here 
remains the same.
I say this because the photos of clothing are primarily of items which appear to be 
undamaged and/or which only show a small portion of the clothing which is again 
undamaged. And the photos of items within cupboards seem to show minor smoke/soot 
marks on containers, boxes or items. But they dont persuade me that these items were 
damaged by the fire or smoke, or that they were in need of repair or replacement.
Mr A also listed several other items he felt were missed from the settlement, such as ceiling 
lights and chandeliers, a cooker extractor, a standing lamp, a coffee table and a sofa.
I can confirm that the sofa, lamp and coffee table all appear to have been captured on the 
loss adjusters inventory and so included in the settlement already paid. The ceiling 
lights/chandeliers and extractor dont appear to have been included. But Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that these required repair or replacement as a result of the fire. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to direct Lloyds to cover these items in these 
circumstances. But I would expect Lloyds to consider these items further should Mr A have 
additional evidence to support that these items were damaged by the fire. 
Mr A has said he had numerous LED items that were damaged in the fire. But he says he 
doesnt have any photos of these. In the absence of evidence that Mr A owned these items, 
and that they were damaged by the fire, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to consider these.
Mr A did provide several photos of a wall mounted LED fireplace which he says was missed 
from the settlement. I couldnt see that the fireplace had been included in the inventory of 
items, so I put this to Lloyds and asked for its comments.
Lloyds explained that this item had initially been captured on the inventory as a disco light. 
Mr A later clarified that it was the fireplace and said its value was around £2,700. But he 
wasnt able to supply any supporting evidence to verify its stated value. Lloyds identified 
similar items available from well-known retailers for around £200. So, in the absence of 
additional evidence about the value from Mr A, Lloyds included £200 for the fireplace in the 
settlement.
Ive had a look online myself and can see that there are several wall mounted LED fireplaces 
available for around £200. And I havent seen any supporting evidence from Mr A to suggest 
that his fireplace cost the amount he has claimed for, or more than the £200 Lloyds has paid. 
So, based on the available information, I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly in the way it has settled the LED fireplace, or the other items of 
contents Mr A has argued were missed. 
Taking everything into account, Ill not be directing Lloyds to increase the settlement it paid 
for the contents  aside from the award for the carpet mentioned in the above section.My final decision
For the reasons above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As complaint in part. 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
Amend the settlement to include cover for the fire damaged carpet.
Subject to Mr A providing Lloyds further evidence, consider Mr As claim for tenants 
improvements, in line with the offer it has made.
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr A by failing 
to consider his tenants improvement claim sooner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman