DRN-2646341
The complaint
Ms F complains about investment advice and poor service provided by Thornton and Baines 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited (TB).
What happened
In August 2019, Ms F took investment advice from TB. Ms F held £180,000 in National 
savings, £200,000 in cash and £34,889 in a stocks and shares ISA. Ms F was looking to 
generate a better return than holding her funds on deposit. At the time Ms F was mortgage 
free with no debts.
Ms F was assessed as a cautious investor and a recommendation was made to invest 
£60,000 into a bond, £80,000 into an OEIC, £20,000 into an ISA and to transfer the existing 
ISA. £40,000 was kept in cash. Ms F took time to consider her options and decided to 
proceed with the recommendation at the end of January 2020, paying an upfront fee for the 
advice. Funds were transferred at the beginning of February 2020.
On 14 March, Ms F was offered an enhanced investment service with her provider. Ms F 
was unhappy at being asked to pay additional fees and asked if they could be waived. The 
adviser offered a reduced fee but this was not acceptable to Ms F.
On 17 March, Ms F was advised to move her holdings into cash for the short-term, given the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the markets and the uncertainty this had caused. Ms F 
took this step. Ms F became unhappy that her funds were sitting in cash, the markets had 
changed considerably and she felt she had not been advised correctly other than being told 
there were fears of downturn.
The original adviser left TB. Ms F was not advised of his departure and was then provided 
with a series of different advisers within short succession. Ms F explains that she had spent 
time developing trust with the initial adviser. On occasions, the advisers failed to attend 
remote meetings, leaving Ms F to chase for updates. Ms F became increasingly concerned 
about the level of service offered to her and questioned the competency of the firm. By the 
time TB recommended moving funds back into the market, Ms F had lost confidence.
Ms F seeks compensation for the poor performance of the investment and for the poor 
service she feels she was provided. She believes the level of compensation should be in the 
thousands. Further, Ms F asks for the advisory fees to be refunded.
TB say the advice given to Ms F was suitable for her needs. The events surrounding the 
pandemic were fast moving and unforeseeable and the recommendation to move funds into 
cash in the short-term was also suitable. TB recommended moving back into the markets in 
three-staged return once some stability had returned. TB apologised for the changes in 
adviser, which occurred as result of staff changes. They also apologised when calls were 
missed. TB reassured Mrs F that she had access to a dedicated adviser team at all times 
and offered to compensate Ms F £100 for the shortcomings in customer service. In addition, 
TB offered Ms F the enhanced, model portfolio service for free for the next 3 years from the 
date of commencement of investment policies. Something she had originally asked for.
Our investigator considered the complaint, she thought the original recommendation was 
suitable for Ms Fs needs and was in line with her attitude to risk. Further, she thought that 
the option to move into cash and a later passed return to the markets was suitable given the 
volatility in the markets and Ms Fs low attitude to risk. Our investigator noted the service 
issues raised by Ms F but took into account the internal changes TB had dealt with. Overall, 
she didnt think TB had done anything wrong. Accordingly, she felt that their offer was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ms F disagrees with the view. She says she had to chase things up when calls were not 
attended by advisers. The decision to move back to the market was taken at a time when it 
took several weeks to action. In any event, she has zero-trust in TB and seeks re-
imbursement of all fees paid since the beginning of the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate Ms Fs strength of feeling about this matter, given that she sustained 
losses so soon after having made the decision to invest. But it doesnt automatically follow 
that TB did anything wrong.
attitude to risk and suitability
Ive considered Ms Fs circumstances at the time the advice was given. Given Ms Fs limited 
investment experience and her cautious attitude to risk, I consider that she was a cautious 
investor. Im satisfied that TB made a proper assessment of Ms Fs attitude to risk and they 
took the step of lowering the risk exposure identified in the risk questionnaire, in which Ms F 
had described herself as a medium risk investor. TB assessed Ms F as being low risk 
defined as:
As your attitude to accepting risk is low, you are probably concerned about the possibility 
of losing money, but do not want to completely ignore the possibility of making higher 
returns. You probably want greater returns than are offered by bank accounts and other low-
risk investments. As a result, you are prepared to accept some ups and downs. This means 
that you could make a loss on the amount you invest, particularly in the short term.
Ms F had initially intended to purchase another property with her funds, but decided to invest 
for capital growth over time with the requirement of being able to access the funds or take a 
regular income. Ms F retained £180,000 in National Savings and held £40,000 in cash for 
emergencies. The balance of funds (around half of her total holding) was invested as 
follows: £60,000 into an onshore bond, £80,000 into an OEIC and £20,000 into a stocks and 
shares ISA to fully utilise her tax-free allowance (£34,889 was also transferred from an 
existing ISA). TB advised moving funds from the OEIC into an ISA wrapper over time, to 
increase tax efficiency. The aim was to hold the investment for the longer-term.Overall, given that Ms F was looking for some growth but with minimal risk, I consider that 
the spread of assets was suitable for her objectives and capacity for loss. I also note that 
Ms F hasnt said these options exposed her to more risk that she was willing to take.
There is an element of risk when making investments and it is incredibly unfortunate that    
Ms F invested just before the markets were impacted by the ramifications of the global 
Covid-19 pandemic. Its clear that Ms F was deeply concerned about sustaining losses so 
soon, especially as she had given so much thought about investing. Theres nothing to show 
that this downturn was foreseeable at the point the advice was given or at the point the 
investment was made. TB have confirmed that they reviewed the suitability of that advice 
again at the time the investment was made and it remained in line with Ms Fs attitude to risk 
and her objectives. Ultimately, the timing of the downturn was a matter outside of TBs 
control. 
Given the extent of market volatility, coupled with Ms Fs low appetite for risk, TB advised 
her to move funds into cash in March. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
recommendation given that this was an unprecedented global event of an unknown duration. 
It was a reasonable step to mitigate against any further losses, especially for a low risk 
investor. The notes from the time show that Ms F was happy to remain in cash as at June 
2020. TB again asked Mrs F whether she was content to remain in cash in September 2020.
Once things had begun to stabilise TB advised Ms F to begin a phased return to the market, 
so as to keep some protection whilst starting reinvestment for the longer term. Ive seen that 
TB explained why they considered a phased return to investment was preferable. This was 
not an unreasonable approach given Ms F was a cautious investor who had been keen to 
get some return on her funds. As our investigator has explained, TB was not a discretionary 
manager, so it was ultimately for Ms F to decide whether or not to return to the market. TB 
gave Ms F the option of accept that recommendation, invest everything back into the market 
or remain wholly in cash. Ms F elected to proceed with a phased return.
I appreciate Ms Fs disappointment that the underlying investment funds didnt perform as 
she had hoped, but the evidence from the time shows that the recommendation to invest in 
these funds wasnt unsuitable for her. So, I cant reasonably say that TB did anything wrong 
in terms of the advice given. 
Performance was a matter outside of TBs control and I havent seen anything to show that 
the recommendations made were negligent. Ms F had the benefit of the advisory service she 
paid for, so I dont think its fair and reasonable for the fees to date to be repaid.
additional fee
I appreciate that Ms F was unhappy about being offered an enhanced investment service for 
an additional fee. But this wasnt mandatory and it was for Ms F to decide whether or not to 
go ahead with it. Ive seen that at the adviser took on board Ms Fs concerns and offered Ms 
F a reduced fee for the service.
service provision
Its clear that Ms F had valued building up a relationship with the initial adviser and hadnt 
anticipated that things would change. Ms F was then disappointed to be given a series of 
different advisers in short succession at a time difficult time. Given the context of the 
pandemic and the losses Ms F had sustained, its understandable that this caused her upset 
and distress. This was exacerbated when Ms F had to chase for updates and when some 
online meetings were missed. TB agree that they fell short in their service provision on occasions. But I think it is important 
to put this in context. Ms F had access to an adviser team at all times and Ive noted that she 
did receive advice about key steps. When considering this matter in the round, Ive borne in 
mind that these events took place in the context of exceptional circumstances, where the 
business was also transitioning to home working and TB was handling staff changeovers 
remotely. 
offer
I think TBs offer to compensate Ms F for some shortcomings is fair and reasonable. When 
looking at that compensation, I recognise there were challenges on both sides, due to the 
unforeseeable impact of the global pandemic. On balance, I consider that TBs offer of £100 
coupled with a free upgrade to the enhanced investment service was fair and reasonable. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Ms F, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Its now for Ms F to decide whether or not to accept the offer Thornton and Baines 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman