DRN-4020263
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly restricted her account, and about 
the service provided when trying to resolve the issue. Shed like answers as to what 
happens and compensation.
What happened
Ms S held an account with Nationwide. In early May 2022 she received a payment of £300 
from her son. However Nationwide later received a report that she may not have been 
entitled to the funds she received. The society blocked her account and asked her about the 
money she received. They removed the disputed £300 but allowed her to withdraw the 
remaining funds in branch.
Nationwides fraud team investigated and asked Ms S to provide details of her sons 
accounts, showing where the payment came from. But she was unhappy with the service 
she received from the society, saying she felt shed be patronised. She sent them copies of 
her sons statements, and the society accepted she had received the funds in good faith. 
The block was removed at the end of May 2022. The disputed £300 was returned to source. 
Ms S complained to Nationwide about the block, and the service she received while trying to 
resolve the block. The society responded to say they had given her incorrect information 
about setting up a new direct debit instruction. But they felt the questions they asked had 
been appropriate. They credited her account with £15 for the misinformation. But overall they 
didnt think theyd handled the situation incorrectly.
Unhappy with this Ms S referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened but didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything further. Ms S 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide, like all regulated businesses within the UK, have legal and regulatory obligations 
placed on them. These obligations mean that they need to be able to understand how an 
account is being used, which may involve asking their consumers for further information 
about the account activity, or transactions. And it may be necessary for accounts to be 
restricted  there are provisions for this within the terms of Ms S Nationwide account.
In this case Nationwide received a credible report that the money paid into Ms S account 
may be the result of fraud  although theres never been any suggestion Ms S was involved 
in this. So, in these circumstances it is reasonable for Nationwide to block the account while 
they conduct a review. This is in line with their obligations, and standard banking practice. 
Its right that any financial business treat reports of fraud as serious and take the appropriate 
steps to respond.
I appreciate this will have been inconvenient for Ms S, and it will have been frustrating to 
suddenly find out she cant use her account. But I cant see that Nationwide have made a 
mistake by blocking the account. I can see from the statements though that she was able to 
withdraw funds from branch, which will have alleviated some of the inconvenience.
Having reviewed the available calls and correspondence between Nationwide and Ms S, Im 
satisfied the society were upfront about the reason for the block and provided a reasonable 
explanation of what information they would need to remove it. 
I dont think the request for her sons statements was unreasonable, as ultimately this is the 
source of the funds paid to her that were in dispute. This is in-line with the information wed 
expect to ask for. 
From what Ive heard the calls were conducted professionally and empathetically. From the 
call with the fraud department, Ms S would be aware of what information Wide were looking 
for, why they were requesting it, and how long it was likely to take to be reviewed afterwards. 
I cant agree that Nationwide were patronising to Ms S.
Once Ms S provided the statements, Nationwide reviewed them and accepted she was 
acting in good faith when she received the funds. They then took the decision to unblock her 
account. This took 13 days, which I consider to be a reasonable timeframe. I havent seen 
anything to suggest there were any unnecessary delays.
Nationwide returned the £300 to the sending bank. In the terms of Ms S account there is 
provision for returning funds if they are recalled. And listening to the calls I can hear Ms S 
say she isnt concerned about that £300. So, in the circumstances Im satisfied this was fair.
Ive no doubt this was all very concerning to Ms S. Listening to the calls I can hear her 
genuine distress. But Im satisfied that the decision by Nationwide to block and review her 
accounts was reasonable. I can see shes requested answers about what happened. But 
Nationwide have been upfront about why her account was under review, and what 
information theyd received from the sending back. I dont see what further information they 
could have given that would have lessened the impact on her.
Nationwide have paid £15 for incorrect information given about a new direct debit instruction. 
From looking at the statements I cant see that any of Ms S regular payments out of the 
account were missed during the period the account was blocked. And in any case, Ive found 
the block to be fair. 
From what Ive seen Nationwide handled the situation appropriately, and Im not asking them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman