DRN-2847976
The complaint
Mr G complains he was given negligent advice by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer 
the benefits of his occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension, causing 
him a financial loss. 
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In 2017 Mr G responded to an online advertisement for a no obligation pension review with 
Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal). Mr G completed the form Portal sent, and said he 
was interested in getting better performance from his pension and access to a tax-free lump 
sum. 
Portals suitability report set out Mr Gs circumstances at the time as follows:
He was aged 54 and married, with no dependent children;
Employed by his local authority in a manual role on a salary of around £16,700;
He was a member of his employers defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) with 15 years contributions;
He had a part-time job as a fire-fighter earning around £300 a month. Hed been a 
member of the defined benefit pension scheme relating to that employment for 
around three years;
He was renting a property, had no savings and a credit card debt of around £200 to 
which he was making monthly repayments;
His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as being moderately cautious)
The transfer value of his OPS was just under £59,000. Based on a retirement age of 67 it 
would provide annual income of £5,042 after taking tax-free cash (TFC) of £6,288. Or it 
provided the option of enhanced TFC of £23,905, with a reduced annual income of £3,586;
Portal conducted a transfer analysis report (TVAS) which concluded the critical yield needed 
to provide equivalent benefits to Mr Gs OPS was 11.4% for the first option and 10.1% for 
the option with the enhanced TFC.
Portal recorded Mr Gs objectives as being to buy a car and go on holiday. The report said 
the critical yield of 11.4%, being the investment growth needed to match the benefits from 
the OPS was unlikely to be achieved, so they didnt recommend the transfer. However 
Portals post-sale options letter dated 13 July 2017 gave Mr G the option of disregarding its 
advice, proceeding with the transfer of his OPS on an insistent client basis into a flexi-
access drawdown plan, releasing the tax-free cash (TFC) of £14,970 and reinvesting the 
remaining £44,913. 
Mr G signed the insistent client form on 18 July 2017 explaining in his own words that his 
wife was disabled with spine problems, and he wanted to take her on the holiday of a 
lifetime before her condition deteriorated, and that he needed to replace his car. 
The Portal adviser produced a suitability report dated 28 July 2017 about what Mr G should 
do with the balance of his funds, after taking the TFC of £14,700. It reiterated the 
recommendation not to transfer and set out the benefits Mr G would be giving up, based on 
taking them at age 67. It told Mr G hed need to contact his OPS and opt out of his 
employers scheme before the transfer could go ahead. This report said Portal 
recommended Mr G transfer to a self-invested personal pension plan with A invested 67% 
in equities, 28% global bonds and 5% in cash. Portals advice fee of 5% would be deducted 
from the transfer value, and the annual management charge was 1%. The transfer went 
ahead, the TFC was released to Mr G and the balance was invested according to the 
strategy set out by Portal. 
In June 2020 Mr Gs CMC complained to Portal on his behalf. Portal didnt uphold the 
complaint, disagreeing its advice had been negligent. It said Mr G had fully understood the 
implications of giving up the benefits in his OPS. But hed given clear reasons for wanting to 
proceed and Portal had followed the regulators guidance in relation to insistent clients. 
So Mr Gs CMC brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators upheld 
it. He thought a firms recommendations should be given independently of any insistent client 
process, whereas Portal had sent the forms together. And Portals fee was contingent on Mr 
G proceeding with the transfer. He didnt think Mr G fully understood the long-term 
implications of the benefits hed be giving up. So he went on to explain how he thought 
Portal should put things right. 
Portal disagreed with the investigators assessment and set out their objections in detail, 
saying they believe they had treated Mr G appropriately as an insistent client. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The approach of this service when considering transfers from defined benefit pension 
schemes aligns with the FCA guidance (COBS 19.1.6G), which is the assumption they will 
generally not be suitable. 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2 Portal was required to: 
Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the OPS with the benefits which Mr G 
could expect by transferring
Ensure that the comparison included enough information to enable Mr G to make an 
informed decision.  
Provide Mr G with a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that 
do and dont support its personal recommendation, in good time. 
Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr G understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation. COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its clients. And a firm must communicate with its customers in a way which 
is clear, fair and not misleading. 
So the starting point is the presumption of unsuitability, which meant that unless Portal could 
provide clear justification, the transfer wouldnt be in Mr Gs best interests. By transferring his 
pension benefits and taking an immediate tax-free lump sum, Mr Gs pension income in 
retirement is likely to be significantly reduced, even bearing in mind the additional pension 
provision he has with his second job. I can see that Portals letter of 13 July 2017 following 
its initial phase of research strongly recommended Mr G didnt transfer, which I think was 
right. 
But the same letter went on to say that if Mr G wanted to go ahead, that was something 
Portal could help him with. And it would treat Mr G as an insistent client. Pension freedoms 
legislation enabled Mr G more flexibility in the way he accessed his pension, and he may 
have been tempted by the prospect of accessing the tax-free cash at age 55. But like the 
investigator, I dont think it was appropriate, or in Mr Gs best interests of Portal to 
proactively suggest he proceed on an insistent client basis.
My understanding is the insistent client process is a means to enable experienced, 
financially sophisticated, and well-informed consumers make their own investment decisions. 
In those circumstances Id expect the consumer themselves to have instigated the insistent 
client process. Having been given advice not to proceed, Id expect the client to ask the firm 
if they would be prepared to facilitate the transaction on an insistent client basis. The firm is 
not obliged to agree. In this case its clear Portal suggested the insistent client option to Mr G 
as a way of enabling him to access his TFC, about which I think theyd already set his 
expectations. 
The fact-find completed on 29 March 2017 recorded that Mr G is the sole earner in his 
household. Despite working two jobs, he had no savings or other assets and didnt want to 
take on additional debt (other than the credit card bill he was repaying). Like the investigator 
I dont agree with Portals assessment of Mr G as a moderate investor just because hed 
had other pensions or endowments in the past. I dont think that meant he was sufficiently 
experienced to be considered as an insistent client. 
One of the fact-find questions was Why do you require a tax-free cash sum? to which Mr G 
replied holiday of a lifetime with wife and new car.  Which again suggests the discussion 
was focussed around how Mr G would like to spend the money, rather than whether giving 
up guaranteed lifelong benefits and opting out of a final salary OPS was in his best interests. 
When asked how important raising the TFC was to enable him to achieve his goals, Mr G 
answered Reasonably important but not vital. And when asked which of three statements 
best fit with his attitude to the relative priority of need for immediate cash versus long-term 
retirement provision, Mr G didnt tick the third statement which said My immediate need for 
tax free cash is very important, I feel I would need to proceed regardless of any long-term 
impact on my retirement provision. 
Instead he ticked the middle one, which said that the cash was important rather than very 
important, and that he would want to proceed rather than the he would need to proceed. 
So I think Mr G wasnt fully committed to the transfer at that point.  
Ive seen no reason to dispute the CMCs argument that Mr G was unfamiliar with the term 
insistent client. And I dont think he would have suggested proceeding against Portals 
advice unless it had given him that option, which it did alongside the recommendation. 
Ive seen no evidence Mr G insisted the transfer went ahead. It seems to me he was 
interested in finding a way to fund a holiday and a new car, and Portal suggested he could do that by taking a pension commencement lump sum, commonly known as tax-free cash 
(TFC). Im not sure he wouldve been aware initially that doing so meant opting out of his 
OPS and transferring the benefits to a SIPP. 
Portals letter dated 13 February 2017 headed Were ready to complete your pension 
release review gave the impression the review would focus on the release of the TFC, 
rather than transferring or opting out of the OPS. The letter tells Mr G Portal has received the 
information from his pension provider, and the next step is a 20-minute telephone 
conversation with one of their friendly paraplanners. It warned in bold print that the transfer 
value of Mr Gs pension is only guaranteed for a limited time. And that if it needed to be 
recalculated This could delay how long it will take to receive your tax free cash. Which I 
think put time pressure on Mr G, and also suggested it was a foregone conclusion Mr G 
would proceed, even before the formal analysis and discussion had taken place. 
It was reasonably clear from Mr Gs financial and employment situation that he was not 
financially experienced or sophisticated, so hed listen to what an adviser told him. I think 
hed pay attention to the adviser, even if after considering everything, the outcome was that 
while wanting a nice holiday was perfectly understandable, he shouldnt go ahead. As the 
price was giving up his guaranteed defined benefit pension, which could have a significant 
impact on the retirement provision for Mr G and his wife. 
It's recorded that Mr G didnt wish to take on more borrowing. But his income exceeded his 
monthly outgoings by a small amount, so its possible he could have taken on a modest 
personal loan to fund a holiday. It might not have been so lavish as the TFC would allow, but 
the adviser may have been able to suggest a compromise which didnt require the loss of the 
guaranteed benefits in his OPS. 
The post-sale options letter dated 13 July 2017 headed Important news about taking money 
early from your pension stated that Portal didnt recommend the transfer. But then it 
immediately asked the question What happens if you still want to go ahead and transfer 
your funds?. It went on to say that this was absolutely Mr Gs decision because everyones 
circumstances are different. If Mr G did wish to go ahead then this is something we can 
help you with. And Rest assured if you choose to go ahead with this transfer you will get 
the same level of care, attention and expertise we offer all of our clients
I think Mr G wouldve been reassured by those phrases, and that Portal was willing to help 
him with the transaction. Hes likely to think a properly qualified and experienced adviser 
wouldnt be prepared to facilitate a transaction if it was a really bad idea.
The letter required Mr G to tick a number of boxes to evidence his understanding of the 
consequences of proceeding with the transfer. Mr G signed the form to say he wished to go 
ahead on 18 July 2017. And hed ticked the boxes to show he understood the new plan 
would be unlikely to achieve the critical yield of 10.1%, the income the new plan could 
provide compared to the income available at 67 from his OPS, and that by going against the 
recommendation Mr G is therefore an insistent client. 
But Im concerned the reassuring tone, the ease by which Mr G could go ahead simply by 
ticking a few boxes and the provision of a prepaid envelope, meant Mr G was effectively 
steered towards proceeding without having reflected on the long-term consequences. 
The regulator recommended that insistent clients set out their reasoning for proceeding in 
their own words. It appears Mr G completed the section of the insistent client form headed 
Why you want to go ahead and transfer your [OPS] to access your pension savings early in 
his own handwriting. He wrote his wife has a spinal condition and he wanted to take her on 
holiday before it deteriorated and that he desperately needed to upgrade his vehicle. While this explains what he hoped to spend the TFC on, I dont think it demonstrates his 
understanding of the long-term impact of his decision to opt out and transfer from his OPS. 
Mr G signed this form on 18 July 2017.  
The typed insistent client declaration Mr G signed on 31 July 2017, set out that Mr G wished 
to proceed with the transfer, as his main priority is to release tax free cash to go on holiday 
and buy a new car. It listed in clear language the reasons why Portal didnt recommend the 
transfer. Which were in summary, the guaranteed benefits hed be giving up, the relatively 
hight critical yield, by opting out of his OPS hed lose his employers contributions, the 
transfer may affect his wifes state benefits and it set out the guaranteed income hed be 
giving up. So I cant fairly say Mr G wasnt made aware that Portal didnt recommend the 
transfer. 
But Ive said I think Portals communications tended to steer Mr G in a particular direction, 
based on his understandable wish to treat his disabled wife to a nice holiday. And to 
minimise or underplay the real risks for his financial future. Because having said their 
recommendation was not to transfer, Portals suitability report dated 28 July 2017, did 
recommend the transfer to a SIPP, because Mr G had chosen to take the TFC of £14,700. 
Page 8 of the report read we propose that as an insistent client you transfer to a flexi-
access drawdown pension and further down the page under the heading Our 
recommendation it read We recommend that you transfer to a personal pension plan with 
[provider] because doing so is key to you accessing your tax-free cash. And it set out the 
investment strategy of a mixture of equities and fixed income securities. It seems likely to me 
that the combination of the two recommendations  not to transfer, and to transfer  would 
have been confusing to Mr G. And because its what he hoped to do, he might have just 
focused on the positive, whereby Portal was effectively recommending Mr G transfer his 
pension savings to a SIPP in order to release the TFC. I think Mr G wouldve been reassured 
by Portals statement that we would not  and could not, make any recommendation to you 
that we did not believe represented the best option available for you. 
Page 6 of the report reminded Mr G hed have to opt out before [Portal] can act, and then 
referred to page 10 for the impact of penalties/benefits which apply. But while page 10 sets 
out the risks of transferring, and that Mr G may not be able to re-join his OPS in the future, 
Ive not seen anything which specifically explained the implications of opting out, other than 
the sentence relating to the loss of employer contributions. So I dont think Mr G did have all 
the information necessary to enable him to make an informed decision. 
Im mindful that Portals advice fee was dependent on Mr G agreeing to transfer his OPS 
benefits. Portals letter of 13 July 2017 told Mr G he wasnt obliged to pay them a penny until 
he signed the declaration form, which would be in his OPS transfer pack. But once he 
agreed to go ahead, Portals fee of almost £4,093 was deducted from the residual fund, not 
the TFC. Of course professionally qualified advisers are entitled to be paid for the work they 
do, and consumers may be unhappy at being charged an advice fee for being told they 
shouldnt go ahead. But I think the scale of Portals fee is significant when taken together 
with the providers annual management charges of 0.47%, in order to release £14,700. 
In summary I dont find Mr G met the criteria to be considered as an insistent client, and I 
dont think he wouldve asked to be treated as such unless Portal had given him that option. 
While I can see Mr G had an understandable desire to access his pension savings at 55, I 
think Portal had a duty of care to him and werent obliged to facilitate the transfer if they 
believed it wasnt in his best interests. 
In these circumstances I dont think Portal has acted fairly and so I uphold the complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Portal should also pay Mr G £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Portal Financial Services LLP should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman