DRN-2564497
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sainsbury's Bank plc wont refund to him the money that hes claimed 
for issues that hes had with a car. His wife is also involved in his complaint.
What happened
Mr S used his Sainsburys Bank credit card in May 2018 to pay £4,949 for a used car. He 
also paid £500 for a warranty from a third party. The car was serviced in August 2018 for 
which Mr S paid £230.72 and he also paid £461.98 for some repairs to the clutch. He says 
that he also found out that the car didnt have the car seat attachment that had been 
advertised. He complained to the dealer in April 2019 about the issues with the clutch, some 
other issues with the car and the missing car seat attachment. It offered to rectify the issue 
with the car seat attachment or pay £100 compensation to Mr S but it didnt agree that it was 
liable for any of the other issues. 
Mr S then made a claim to Sainsburys Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It said that the dealer had offered a reasonable resolution to the car seat attachment 
issue, the mechanical fault looked to be from general wear and tear and there was no 
evidence of mis-selling or a breach of contract from the dealer. But it credited his account 
with £30 because of the length of time that it had taken to respond to his complaint. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service about his issues with 
the car, that the car was mis-sold to him and about the cars warranty. As the warranty was 
provided by a third party, his complaint about it is being dealt with separately. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint about the issues with the car, including the 
car seat attachment, or the car being mis-sold to him should be upheld. Mr S has accepted 
that he cant provide evidence to show that the issues with the auxiliary belt and tensioner 
were present or developing when he bought the car and our investigator couldnt say that 
Mr S wouldnt have bought the car had the information in the advert about the car seat 
attachment been accurate.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes responded to 
our investigators recommendations in detail and says that hes sold the car for £3,165. He 
concludes that an acceptable compromise would be for Sainsburys Bank to pay for the 
repairs to the clutch, auxiliary belt and tensioner, refund the cost of the warranty, pay for 
travel expenses, and pay half of the difference between the price paid for the car less what it 
was sold for (which hes calculated to be £1,167).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Sainsburys 
Bank, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
dealer and that Sainsburys Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
The dealer was responsible for ensuring that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
bought by Mr S - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a 
number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will 
also depend on a number of factors.
The car that was bought by Mr S was more than eight years old, had been driven for 56,700 
miles and had a price of £4,949. Mr S also paid £500 for a warranty but, as the warranty was 
provided by a third party, his complaint about the warranty is being dealt with separately.
Mr S was able to drive the car for about three months before he paid for it to be serviced and 
for some repairs to the clutch in August 2018. The cars mileage was recorded as 58,633 at 
that time so hed been able to drive nearly 2,000 miles in the car. The dealer has provided 
evidence to show that the car was mechanically inspected and passed an MOT test before it 
was bought by Mr S. The dealer also provided Mr S with a one month guarantee for the car 
but Ive seen no evidence to show that he made a claim to the dealer under the guarantee. 
Mr S also paid £355 for new tyres in January 2029, £190.72 for some repairs to the car, 
including the auxiliary belt, in February 2019 and £65.98 for other repairs in June 2019. Its 
clear that Mr S has had some issues with the car but Im not persuaded that hes provided 
enough evidence to show that those issues were present or developing when he bought the 
car or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time.
The car was advertised as having a specified car seat attachment but Mr S says that he 
found out in August 2018 that it didnt have that attachment so he complained to the dealer. 
It said that any issue with the car seat attachment was easily rectified at little cost, which it 
would cover, or it offered to pay £100 compensation to Mr S. I consider that the car was 
misrepresented to Mr S because it didnt have the car seat attachment that was advertised -
but I consider that the dealers offer to rectify the issue was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ive considered Mr Ss concerns about the dealer fitting the attachment but 
Im not persuaded that those concerns are enough to make its offer unfair or unreasonable  
and Mr S has now sold the car so the attachment cant be fitted. Nor am I persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car was mis-sold to Mr S or that the dealer acted 
incorrectly when it asked Mr S to pay a deposit for the car.
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that he had with the car but I consider that Sainsburys 
Bank has responded to his claim under section 75 fairly and reasonably. It paid him £30 for 
its delay in responding to his complaint and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to reimburse Mr S for any of the repair 
costs that hes incurred, any of the other costs that hes claimed or the loss that he suffered 
when he sold the car. Nor do I consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman