DRN-3687647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (Countrywide) didnt 
provide the full terms and conditions relating to their home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O made a claim for damage that was caused to their garden fence and gate as a 
result of a storm. Their insurer declined the claim relying on an exclusion for losses relating 
to hedges, fences, and gates. Mr and Mrs O say there werent made aware of this exclusion 
previously. They say had they been aware they would have upgraded their cover or found 
alternative insurance.
Countrywide responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint in June 2022. It says they were online 
customers and have access to their policy documents via a portal. Mr and Mrs O first took a 
policy with their insurer in 2019. Countrywide says they had access to the policy booklet via 
the portal for the first year. However, its aware that due to a system issue, a booklet isnt 
provided at renewal and the original booklet is removed from the portal. 
Countrywide says the system problem is being resolved. It says the full policy documents 
were available when it sold the policy to Mr and Mrs O. But its their insurer that manages 
the online portal, not Countrywide. It says the availability of the policy documents on the 
portal isnt within its control and so it didnt uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He says although there was a system issue with the 
portal, this wasnt Countrywides responsibility. He says the unlimited cover Mr and Mrs O 
refer to relates to the overall financial cover. The policy doesnt cover all eventualities. Our 
investigator says the exclusion the insurer relied on is a standard condition commonly used 
in the insurance industry. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
their complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Im sorry to disappoint 
them but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr and Mrs O have a separate complaint against their insurer. This is about its decision to 
decline their claim for damage to their garden fence and gate. Im not considering the role of 
their insurer here. My remit is to look at Countrywides role as Mr and Mrs Os insurance 
broker and more specifically its role in ensuring they were given the relevant information.   
Mr and Mrs O claimed for storm damage in February 2022. Ive read the policy schedule 
relating to this policy year. The policy started in October 2021. It states unlimited Buildings 
cover is in place for storm damage. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Os reference to unlimited 
cover. However, as our investigator referred to, this doesnt mean all losses are covered by 
the policy. No insurance policy covers all eventualities. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
detail in the policy booklet.  
Ive read Mr and Mrs Os policy booklet. Under the section entitled, Buildings (including 
Accidental Damage cover) it says:
What is not covered:
Loss or damage: To gates, hedges and fences.    
I think the terms are clear in explaining what isnt covered. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Os argument that they werent provided with a policy booklet. 
They say the first time they saw this information was after raising their complaint following 
their claim that was declined.
I can see that Countrywide investigated the information Mr and Mrs O had access to, which 
involved discussion with their insurer. It explains that a system issue has been found which 
meant the policy terms were available to view on the portal during the first policy year. But at 
the renewal date, because of the system issue, the policy terms were removed. 
Mr and Mrs O say that having received a copy of the policy terms and conditions it 
contradicts the policy document they were able to view. My understanding is that they are 
referring to the policy schedule. This was available on the portal from them to read. 
However, the schedule doesnt provide details of the full terms and conditions of the policy. It 
shows the level of cover Mr and Mrs O had chosen, including the premium and the period 
the policy was to cover, amongst some other details.
To understand the full terms and conditions of what is covered and what exclusions apply Mr 
and Mrs O needed to read the policy booklet. The schedule isnt intended to include details 
of every term and condition relating to the policy. Insurance policies include a substantial 
number of these terms, which is why a customer must also refer to their policy booklet. 
We asked Countrywide what documents Mr and Mrs O had access to when they originally 
took out the policy. Although it concedes a copy of the terms and conditions wasnt available 
on the portal at renewal, it says this information was available for the first year of the policy. 
It has supplied the other documents it says were available at the time, including a statement 
of fact, Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), payment terms, a statement of 
demands and needs, a welcome letter as well as the policy schedule. 
Ive read this information. I can see the welcome letter informs Mr and Mrs O to read the 
policy documents and let it know if anything isnt suitable. Ive also read the remaining 
documents, which provide further detail about the information Mr and Mrs O provided and 
the cover in place. 
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Os recollection that the policy booklet wasnt available to view via 
the portal at renewal. But based on the information provided by Countrywide, I think the 
policy terms and accompanying documentation were provided for them to see, or at least 
have access to, when the policy was first agreed. Instructions were provided that they should 
read this information in full. I think its therefore reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs O to be 
aware the full policy terms and conditions werent all included in the policy schedule document, which was only made up of four pages.  
I accept there was a period from the first renewal onwards when the policy booklet wasnt 
accessible. But I dont think a reasonable person would think that the limited information in 
the policy schedule included all relevant terms and exclusions. Especially as this information 
had been made available previously. As this information wasnt available to Mr and Mrs O, 
Id expect them to contact Countrywide at an early juncture to query this. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs O arent covered under their policy for the damage caused to their 
garden fence and gate. But I dont think they have shown that Countrywide is responsible for 
them being unaware of this exclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman