DRN-3536358
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have failed to refund £95,000 he says he lost as 
part of an investment scam between 2017 and 2018.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr O authorised the disputed payments he made to the merchant 
FXB from his TSB account. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by TSB, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether there was any obligation on TSB to have prevented 
Mr O from making the payments in order to protect him from the risk of fraud. But Im not 
satisfied there was here. I appreciate Mr O considers he has now been the victim of a 
scam after he lost touch with FXB and has been unable to withdraw his money. But I do 
not consider there to be sufficient evidence to suggest the merchant was operating a 
scam at the time he made his payments. 
Mr O has said himself that he doesnt consider FXB to have been fraudulent at the time 
either. He said its more likely that FXB was a genuine broker who may have 
encountered money problems and later decided to abscond with their clients funds, as 
he hadnt ever experienced problems with them until one day they stopped responding. 
Mr O has said that they had a professional operation with daily trading reports, and that 
he was not being pestered to send money. He also said he wasnt making large returns 
and was only breaking even, which does not sound typical of an investment scam where 
customers are led to believe they are making large profits.
Therefore, even if I accept that TSB ought to have prevented Mr Os payments pending 
further questioning (which in some instances they were, such as the payments he made 
in branch) Im not persuaded that any such questioning or discussion about the purpose 
of the payments would have likely resulted in Mr O not going ahead with them. Theres 
nothing that would have likely led him to believe that FXB were fraudulent, for example, 
as he has said they were operating a legitimate brokerage at the time, and there were no 
published warnings from the regulator either.   
I appreciate that TSB introduced its own fraud compensation scheme in April 2019. But 
this was not in force at the time Mr O made his payments, so TSB is under no obligation 
to provide him with a refund given that it does not apply this scheme retrospectively. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, and Im sorry to hear about the 
losses he has incurred. However, I do not consider TSB to be liable for those losses in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman