DRN-2773125
The complaint
The estate of Mrs T complains of poor customer service from Melton Mowbray Building 
Society.
What happened
Mrs T wrote to Melton Mowbray on 6 July 2019. She asked them to update her passbook 
with all accrued interest transactions, to update her passbook to record it was a fixed rate 
bond which would mature on 24 June 2022 with an interest rate of 1.75% gross, to confirm 
that the transfer hadnt impacted her continuity of investing membership and didnt require 
her to give any form of charitable assignment and for Melton Mowbray to send her a reply 
paid envelopes for future use when contacting them.
Melton Mowbray responded to Mrs Ts letter and said that they had updated her passbook 
accordingly and that the inside cover confirms that the account matures on 24 June 2022, 
they confirmed that the reinvestment did not affect her continuity of membership and that 
she wouldnt need to resign the charitable assignment form. They also said they do not 
supply pre paid envelopes.
Mrs T wrote back to Melton Mowbray. She said that Melton Mowbray had lied to her as she 
had previously been sent a pre paid envelope. She added that the updated passbook didnt 
show the maturity date or the interest rate and neither did Melton Mowbrays covering letter. 
Mrs T said that Melton Mowbray had made the point about the charitable assignment 
unnecessarily unclear and that she never originally had to sign this. Mrs T asked them to 
raise a formal complaint and requested a payment of no less than £25 to settle her 
complaint.
Melton Mowbray did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. They said that they no longer provide a 
supply of pre paid envelopes to customers for general use. They only supply pre paid 
envelopes at the point of a fixed rate account maturing and that was specifically because 
they are asking for the passbook and investment instruction to be returned. 
In relation to the maturity date and interest rate point, Melton Mowbray apologised that the 
interest rate was omitted from their letter but said the letter clearly confirmed the passbook 
has been updated and states the account is a fixed rate savings to 24 June 2022. They 
added that Mrs T had been sent a separate letter on 24 June 2019 which confirmed the 
account type and the interest rate.
Melton Mowbray said Mrs T had been a member of the society from 2003 and she was 
required to sign a charitable assignment form at the time. They said she signed this on 25 
November 2003. Melton Mowbray explained that as she had held an account with them 
since 2003 then no further charitable assignment form was required and any transfers to 
new accounts didnt affect her membership with them.
Mrs T responded to this letter and said that whilst she is to understand the society only uses 
pre paid envelopes with their customers on selected occasions, she thought it was unfair for 
customers to contact Melton Mowbray at their own cost. She also said that even though they 
had sent her a separate letter confirming the maturity date and interest rate of her new 
account, the society failed to update the passbook or covering letter with the rate of interest. 
This would have provided her with reassurance that everything was in order with her 
account. 
Melton Mowbray responded to Mrs T and said they had met their obligations in keeping her 
fully informed of the interest rate of the account. They also said they had found no evidence 
of Mrs T being financially disadvantaged or significantly inconvenienced and that the 
responses they provided were appropriate for the points raised.
Mrs T had passed away before Melton had sent their last response to her. Mr T is the sole 
executor of the estate of Mrs T  and he has brought this complaint to this service on behalf 
of the estate. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that the business werent 
unreasonable in their responses to Mrs T and as we are an informal dispute resolution 
service, not the regulator its not our role to instruct businesses to change their processes 
and procedures. Mr T on behalf of the estate asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman and brought up a number of points including that Mrs T felt she was being lied 
to regarding the original response from the society about what they said about pre paid 
envelopes, that the clear recording of the interest rate would have given her reassurance 
and that the society should have been clearer in their responses to Mrs T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered, listened to and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive thought about what Mr T has said regarding him believing that Melton Mowbray had lied 
to his late mother. So Ive looked at the original response that they provided to Mrs T about 
pre paid envelopes. In their letter dated 12 July 2019 they said please be advised the 
society does not provide pre paid envelopes. In isolation this is an incorrect statement and 
Mrs T wouldve been aware this was incorrect as she had previously been provided with at 
least one pre paid envelope by Melton Mowbray. But, when looking at the context of what 
they said Im persuaded that Mrs T wasnt lied to and Ill explain why.
Mrs T had asked for a supply of pre paid envelopes for her future use when contacting 
Melton Mowbray. In response to Mrs Ts letter by saying they do not provide pre paid 
envelopes, for the purpose Mrs T wanted the pre paid envelopes for  future use, then Im 
persuaded that this statement wasnt incorrect. I do think that Melton Mowbray couldve been 
clearer on this point to Mrs T though.
I can understand why Mrs T may have been frustrated by the reply as she had previously 
received a pre paid envelope from Melton Mowbray and their reply doesnt acknowledge the 
fact that there are situations where a pre paid envelope would be issued to a member. But in 
order to uphold the complaint on this point I would need to look at what wouldve likely 
happened if Melton Mowbray had fully explained their policy to Mrs T originally.
Im persuaded that had Melton Mowbray explained that they were only able to issue pre paid 
envelopes in certain circumstances that Mrs T wouldve found an alternative or free way of 
contacting Melton Mowbray in the future. I say this because Melton Mowbray, in their submission to this service informed us that Mrs T had used their freepost address in her 
correspondence with them after she was informed they were unable to supply pre paid 
envelopes. 
So while I think Melton Mowbray couldve been clearer to Mrs T in their original letter, Im not 
persuaded that this would merit compensation when Mrs T would not be able to obtain pre 
paid envelopes at the point in time she wrote her original letter to Melton Mowbray for the 
purpose she was wanting the pre paid envelopes for. In addition, the second letter to Mrs T 
expanded on their reasoning for not sending out pre paid envelopes and Im satisfied the 
rationale for this was a lot clearer.
Next Ive considered the response of Melton Mowbrays answer to Mrs Ts question in her 
original letter regarding the charitable assignment. Mrs T asked them to confirm that the 
transfer wouldnt have impacted her continuity of investment membership and wouldnt 
require her to give them any form of charitable assignment. 
Im satisfied that Melton Mowbray were clear in their answer here. They confirmed that the 
transfer would not affect her continuity of membership. They also said that Mrs T would not 
be required to resign the charitable assignment form. Im satisfied the confusion on this point 
is because Mrs T wrote in her response that she didnt have to sign a charitable assignment 
originally. I have seen a copy of the charitable assignment that Mrs T signed in 2003 and as 
Melton Mowbray confirmed, Mrs T wouldnt have to resign another one of these forms. So 
Im satisfied that they did answer Mrs Ts question with a clear answer here.
Lastly Ive considered Mrs Ts passbook not being updated with the interest rate to show the 
maturity date of 24 June 2022 and the interest rate of 1.75% gross when she requested it to 
show these details. It appears Melton Mowbray did not carry out this part of Mrs Ts request. 
Mrs T asked Melton Mowbray why they didnt include this in the passbook or the covering 
letter. Melton Mowbray confirmed that while the covering letter did show the maturity date, it 
didnt show the interest rate and they apologised for their omission. 
Mr T said that this wouldve provided his mother with reassurance and wasnt an 
unreasonable request she made. Im satisfied Mrs T made a reasonable request here. But, I 
need to look at the impact of this mistake and if this wouldve caused her to be unaware of 
what type of product she held and at what interest rate. 
Ive noted that Mrs T was clearly frustrated at Melton Mowbray for not updating the passbook 
with the information she requested. But, as they had sent a separate letter to her on the 24 
June 2019 which Ive seen, this sets out the type of account Mrs T had. The letter states the 
balance of your fixed rate savings account, including any accrued interest has been 
transferred to the default product. This account pays an interest rate of 1.75% and is fixed 
until 24 June 2022. So while I understand why updating the passbook with these details 
wouldve reassured Mrs T and this was an omission from Melton Mowbray for not doing so, 
she would be aware from the separate correspondence of the type of account it was 
transferred to. 
But just because a business makes a mistake, this doesnt mean they should always pay 
compensation  or that itd be fair for this service to tell them to do so. And I dont think itd 
fair or proportionate for me to tell Melton Mowbray they should do that here. So, while I can 
appreciate that Mr T will be disappointed by my decision on behalf of the estate here - I think 
that Melton Mowbray have acted reasonably for the reasons Ive already given. So I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman