DRN-2570166
The complaint
X complains about the advice he received from ReAssure Limited to transfer his benefits 
from two occupational pension schemes to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP). 
In particular he says that the redress calculation carried out on his pension in 1997 as part of 
the industry wide Pensions Review was overly optimistic in favour of the L&G scheme. X 
says he will be significantly worse off in retirement as a result. 
What happened
In 1991 Legal &General (now ReAssure) advised X to transfer deferred benefits from two 
occupational pension schemes to a PPP. 
(In 2020 Legal & Generals PPPs and other types of policy were acquired by ReAssure 
Limited. For simplicity throughout this decision I have referred to ReAssure although prior to 
2020 Xs PPP provider was Legal & General.)
As part of the Pensions Review ordered by the regulator at the time, businesses such as 
ReAssure were required to review PPPs sold between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994 to 
determine whether the sale had been compliant. 
If it wasnt, and the consumer had transferred their defined benefits - and the redress 
calculations showed that the customer had suffered a loss as a result - the business was 
required to either reinstate the consumers benefits into their defined benefit scheme, or of 
this wasnt possible, to augment the value of their PPP in line with a defined calculation 
methodology. 
Having carried out a review of Xs PPP, ReAssure wrote to X in January 1997. It said it had 
compared the current value of his PPP to the benefits if they had remained in the 
occupational schemes. It said its review showed there was no loss to X as a result of the 
transfer to a PPP. It confirmed that it had carried out the review in line with methodology set 
by its industry regulator.
ReAssure issued a further response in June 1997 after a review of Xs pension transfer had 
been carried out. It again confirmed that it had used the methodology set by its regulator 
and, having used the prescribed assumptions and methodology in its calculations, no 
redress was due. 
X was not satisfied with the response and referred the matter to the Personal Investment 
Authority Ombudsman (PIAOB).
The PIAOB issued a decision on Xs complaint in February 1999. I understand the PIAOB 
found a discrepancy with the transfer of one of Xs occupational pensions. In order to put 
matters right it said ReAssure should pay £560.20 into Xs PPP. But it said that it was 
satisfied that ReAssure had carried out its review of Xs PPP in line with the regulators 
guidance on the Pensions Review.
In 2019 X complained to ReAssure again. He said that it had become apparent that he 
would be significantly worse off in retirement due to the advice he received to transfer his 
deferred benefits to a PPP.
X also complained that he felt ReAssure may have mismanaged his PPP funds and this had 
caused his loss to be even greater than it would otherwise have been. I understand that this 
matter is being dealt with as a separate complaint.
ReAssure said that as Xs complaint about the pension transfer advice he received had 
already been complained about in 1997, and it had issued a final response on Xs complaint 
at that time, it could not re-consider the same issues.
X wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She noted that, as ReAssure had already 
explained, Xs PPP had been reviewed in 1997 as part of the Pensions Review. He had also 
brought a complaint about the advice he received to transfer his deferred benefits to the 
PIAOB in 1999.
She explained that the Pensions Review was intended to be a one-off exercise to try to put 
right any financial loss caused by the unsuitable advice. The calculation methodology and 
assumptions about what would happen between the review and retirement age were set by 
the industry regulator. Businesses were required to use these assumptions and methodology 
when carrying out redress calculations.
Xs PPP had been reviewed as part of the Pensions Review  and the review found that X 
had not been financially disadvantaged as a result of transferring his deferred benefits to a 
PPP.
Unfortunately, in Xs case it appears he will be worse off in retirement as a result of 
transferring his deferred benefits, despite the Pensions Review finding that he had not been 
disadvantaged at the time of the review.
Our investigator said that although she was sympathetic to Xs position, she didnt think she 
could reasonably say that ReAssure had done anything wrong when it calculated whether 
any redress was due to X in 1997 using the methodology and assumptions set by the 
industry regulator.
X responded to say he didnt accept our investigators view. He made a number of detailed 
submissions reiterating that he feels the advice he received to transfer his deferred benefits 
to a PPP was not suitable. In particular, X said:
- he felt the advice to transfer his deferred pension benefits to a PPP was unsuitable;
- the transfer amount received from one of his occupational pension schemes was too 
low. X says the transfer value received was only around 51% of the contributions that 
had been made into the occupational pension at the time of transfer. He said 
ReAssure should have realized at the time that the transfer value was too low;
- he felt the trustees of his occupational pension schemes should have alerted me 
to the consequences of the transfer. Professional duty of care by the [name of 
employer] to one of its members, would appear to have been absent;
- He felt it was very unfair that he had suffered a significant loss while his former 
employers pension scheme and ReAssure  should walk away with no losses while 
I, as an individual, should be left to suffer severe losses? Regardless of industry 
guidelines there is surely something morally, and possibly legally, wrong here?What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Xs position and I have carefully considered all the points he has made. 
Having done so I dont think Xs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I am mindful that X has made a number of detailed submissions to this service. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service and as such I am not required to respond to every 
detailed point X has raised. I have instead focussed on what I consider to be the key points. I 
trust X will not find this a discourtesy.
suitability of advice
As our investigator explained, when a review of Xs PPP was carried out as part of the 
Pensions Review a calculation was carried out to establish whether X had been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of transferring his deferred benefits to a PPP.
Redress calculations were only carried out if the sale of the PPP was found not to be 
compliant, or the business had conceded compliance (usually because it was not able to 
demonstrate from its records that the sale was compliant).
If the sale had been found to be compliant by ReAssure it wouldnt have carried out a 
redress calculation.
As this is the case, although I appreciate the points X has made about the advice he 
received in 1991 to transfer his deferred benefits, I dont think it is necessary to re-consider 
the suitability of the advice.
redress calculation
X says that the redress calculations carried out in 1997 were flawed and the assumptions 
used were overly optimistic in favour of the L&G scheme. As a result, X says he will be 
significantly worse off in retirement than if he had left his deferred benefits in the 
occupational schemes. 
As our investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a once and for all 
process which was based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair 
methodology, using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension 
policy, and where appropriate, augmentation policy funds. 
Its very unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to fruition, and I have a 
great deal of sympathy with Xs position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the 
pension review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business such as ReAssure was able to provide redress, for instances of mis-selling if the 
customer had suffered a loss, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional 
unknown liabilities in the future. 
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as X that the 
error had been recognised and, if necessary, addressed at that point in time  as Ive said 
above, using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to 
revisit the matter many years later. Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at retirement rather than 
undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still acceptable  method of 
resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an augmentation sum if the 
calculations showed a financial loss. 
The methodology businesses were required to use contained a number of assumptions. The 
most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out by reality. Likewise, as X has noted, the low interest rate environment from 
2008/09 onwards has resulted in the cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, 
for many people, their pension funds at retirement arent sufficient to reproduce the lost 
scheme benefits. 
But the position of this service is that, as the pension review was designed as a one-off 
process, we wouldnt seek to undo the findings of the review even though the pension 
benefits X will receive may well be lower than expected.
In the absence of anything to show or suggest that the data ReAssure relied on when 
carrying out the redress calculations in 1997 was incorrect I cant reasonably find that the 
calculations were incorrect.
However, if X thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or the basis of the calculation 
was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to demonstrate why and, if he deems it 
necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation. 
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by X to require ReAssure to compensate him for any shortfall 
between the income he will receive if he buys an annuity with his PPP and the pension 
income he would have received if he had not transferred his deferred benefits. 
If we were satisfied that ReAssure had undertaken the calculation in good faith, but that 
minor errors had been made, its likely that we would simply require it to rerun the calculation 
using the correct information, but also the same methodology and key assumptions 
(including growth) which existed in 1997. 
transfer values
I appreciate that X feels the transfer value from one of his occupational pensions was too 
low and he is now even worse off than he would otherwise have been. 
But, as the PIAOB decision set out in February 1999:
You will no doubt observe the standards the regulator expected its members to meet from 
your copy of the guidance notes. You will also note that there is no requirement upon a 
member to challenge the value presented to it by a scheme administrator trustees.
.... Legal & General had no involvement in the transfer calculation and therefore there is no 
reasonable grounds on which to base your argument. If indeed your fears are confirmed, 
and the value was calculated incorrectly, you should have raised the matter with the [name 
of pension scheme] trustees and not the Bureau.
(bold is my emphasis)
As the PIAOB decision set out there was no requirement on ReAssure to challenge the 
transfer value presented to it by the schemes trustees. As this is the case, I cannot consider 
this aspect of Xs complaint any further.role of Xs occupational pension scheme trustees
In his submissions to this service X says he feels that his occupational pension scheme 
trustees should have alerted me to the consequences of the transfer. Professional duty of 
care by the [name of employer] to one of its members, would appear to have been absent;
I appreciate Xs point, but this is not something this service can look into. X received 
financial advice on transferring his deferred benefits from ReAssure. I am not aware of any 
requirement on his occupational pension scheme trustees to become involved in advising X 
on whether to transfer his deferred benefits. 
In closing, Id reiterate that I am sympathetic to Xs position, but for the reasons given I cant 
reasonably require ReAssure to compensate X for any shortfall between the income he will 
receive if he buys an annuity with his PPP and the pension income he would have received if 
he had not transferred his deferred benefits.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman