DRN-3224200
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc wont remove adverse credit information from his credit
file.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card with TSB. In 2016 he suffered financial difficulties and his account
was passed to TSBs collections department. On 14 June 2016, TSB say they issued Mr P a
default notice and as a payment arrangement was not made, his account defaulted on 10
November 2016.
Mr P advised TSB of health issues in January 2020. He requested the outstanding balance
to be written off on the grounds of his medical conditions. TSB sent an income and
expenditure form to Mr P, but he says he didnt receive this, so TSB sent him another form.
Mr P returned the form, but this was overlooked by TSB. Mr P complained to TSB and they
offered Mr P £50 compensation as a result of the oversight, which delayed their decision to
write off the outstanding balance, but Mr P did not contact them to accept the offer.
In May 2020, TSB sent Mr P a letter confirming that they had accepted his request to write
off the outstanding balance. The letter stated that TSB would ask credit reference agencies
to update their records to show that the debt had been partially settled (which would reflect
that the debt had been settled for less than the full amount owed). The letter also stated that
this would remain on Mr Ps credit file for six years and may make it difficult for him to borrow
money elsewhere during this timeframe.
Mr P complained to TSB. He said due to his medical conditions the adverse credit data
should be removed from his credit file as he was unable to secure new accommodation due
to this. Mr P says this is aggravating his health conditions. He says that TSB arent following
regulations in the Consumer Credit handbook by considering his individual circumstances as
they arent showing him forbearance. He wants TSB to remove the adverse credit
information from his credit file and for them to pay him compensation.
As TSB didnt reply to Mr Ps complaint, he brought his complaint to our service. Our
investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said that Mr P had been made aware of the
impact to his credit file throughout the history of his account, from when he opened it to
when he began to miss payments, had a default notice, a formal demand and then when it
was finally defaulted.
In relation to the regulations not being met by TSB, our investigator said the rules do not
state if a lender should remove entries from a credit file. He said businesses share
information regularly with credit reference agencies as to what has happened with the credit
itself and these entries remain for six years. This has to always report factual information of
the account and cant be amended on a goodwill or discretionary basis.
Mr P did not agree with our investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to review his
complaint. He also said he had submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR), which
TSB hadnt actioned.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will only be able to look at the merits of this individual complaint that Mr P brought to our
service about TSBs decision to not remove adverse data from his credit file. And as such I
wont comment on issues that have risen recently such as TSB not actioning a DSAR for Mr
P. Under our rules, TSB has to have the opportunity to respond to that issue before we can
look into it.
In order to uphold Mr Ps complaint, I would need to see that TSB have made an error in
how theyve reported the adverse data to the credit reference agencies or an error in
following the process to write off debt due to medical conditions. But Im not persuaded that
they have made an error and Ill explain why.
TSB have a responsibility to report accurately to the credit reference agencies. So when the
account defaulted, this is what TSB reported. Mr P made reduced payments of £1 a month
and then when TSB wrote off the debt, they said they have accurately reflected this on Mr
Ps credit file, including that the debt has been settled partially.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr P has that his medical issues have not been
considered and that TSB should show forbearance by removing the adverse credit from his
credit file. But Im persuaded that TSB have shown forbearance by using the medical data
Mr P provided, to write off the outstanding balance that Mr P owed. It may not be exactly
what Mr P wants here  but looking at things impartially, I think TSB has considered Mr Ps
situation and decided to write off a balance he owes based on that. TSB is now recording the
debt as partially settled and that is ultimately accurate here and this doesnt affect the date
the default stops showing on Mr Ps credit file.
As our investigator explained to Mr P, the rules do not state if a lender should remove entries
from a credit file. So Im not persuaded that TSB have made an error by not removing the
adverse data from his credit file even if his medical conditions have resulted in TSB agreeing
to write off the outstanding balance. TSB have said its their procedure to report payment
history accurately to the credit reference agencies and Im satisfied that this is fair as it will
reflect how a person has managed credit previously.
Ive considered what TSB have said about the delay in processing Mr Ps income and
expenditure details. What I would expect them to do here is apologise for this delay and to
recognise the impact this would have had on Mr P and to offer him compensation. Im
satisfied that is what TSB have done here. They apologised for the delay and offered Mr P
£50 for the delay. Im persuaded that the £50 TSB offered is fair for this issue as this
recognises the impact of the delay, which would cause him inconvenience. Had TSB not
offered this compensation, then the compensation I would have recommended that they pay
Mr P would be broadly in line with this figure for the delay.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps health conditions. I know this decision potentially has an impact
on him obtaining new accommodation, so I can assure Mr P I havent taken this decision
lightly. But as TSB has not made an error in reporting the adverse credit information to the
credit reference agencies and have accurately reflected the payment history on the credit
file, then I dont intend to ask TSB to do anything with regards to Mr Ps credit file. But due to
the delays in processing his income and expenditure details then I intend to ask them to pay
the £50 that TSB have already offered.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. TSB did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr P accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
TSB Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman