DRN-4032487
The complaint 
Miss H complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has not treated her fairly when 
she wanted to claim a refund of money shed paid for dental work on her debit card.
What happened 
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Hs complaint on 1 March 2023, so I will go over the 
background again only briefly: Miss H had some dental work carried out abroad by a dental 
company Ill call MT. Two amounts of £2,333.63 and £1,573.12 were charged to her 
NatWest debit card on 19 and 20 August 2021, in connection with this work. The purpose of 
the work was to alleviate pain caused by a serious health condition and involved having 
crowns fitted which Miss H was expecting to be made of a material called Emax.
Miss H had a dispute with MT over the dental work, which she went to NatWest for help with 
later in August 2021. Initially it appeared there was a dispute over the amounts paid for the 
work but the bank didnt feel it had enough information about what had happened to help. 
There was some back and forth while it tried to obtain more information from Miss H in 
September 2021 but in the end NatWest said it still didnt have enough information to help.
On 11 February 2022 Miss H got back in touch with NatWest with more evidence to support 
her case. She said she had discovered the crowns were made of the wrong material 
(Zirconium) and the work had been done badly. After being told by the bank that they 
couldnt help, Miss H complained and it seems NatWest agreed to look at the dispute again. 
There was again some back and forth with the bank asking for more information and Miss H 
responding, but on 23 and 28 March 2022 NatWest wrote to Miss H to say there was still 
nothing it could do to help her based on the info shed provided.
The complaint came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked 
into it and noted that it had been too late by February 2022 for NatWest to try to obtain a 
refund for Miss H via the chargeback process. So it hadnt treated her unfairly by not 
refunding her.
Miss H didnt think this was fair. It had taken a long time to get the evidence she needed to 
support her case due to dental waiting lists in the UK, and the state of her health meant it 
could take her longer to do things, so the short time limits imposed on her were 
discriminatory. And if she had been too late she didnt understand why the bank would waste 
her time and get her hopes up by asking for more information. Our investigator said Miss H 
hadnt alleged discrimination before so it wasnt something he could comment on, but that in 
any event it was Visa who had set a short deadline, not NatWest. There was nothing the 
bank could have done about the deadline as it didnt have control over it. He thought the 
bank could have told Miss H she was too late in February 2022 but ultimately it hadnt been 
unreasonable of them to look into matters again.
Miss H was unhappy with our investigators assessment and the case was subsequently 
passed to me to decide. In the meantime Miss H noted that the bank could have told her 
about these deadlines earlier and reiterated that it had wasted her time.
The provisional decision
In my provisional decision I firstly considered on what basis NatWest could be expected to 
help Miss H with her problem with MT: 
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to 
a refund from their bank if something goes wrong with what theyve bought. However, a 
bank may be able to help their customer through the dispute resolution system administered 
by the card scheme whose logo appears on the card (in this case, Visa). Disputes raised 
via this system are usually referred to as chargebacks.
Chargebacks are not a way of determining someones legal rights to a refund from 
a merchant in relation to a purchase, they are just a way of settling disputes according to 
the rules set by the card schemes. These rules can be complex; they cover what kind 
of disputes can be pursued, the kind of evidence which is required and the timeframes in 
which things must be done. And chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed  they can 
be contested by the other side to the dispute. If no side is willing to concede then ultimately 
the card scheme itself can be asked to rule on the dispute.
I would normally expect a bank to attempt a chargeback on behalf of a customer looking 
to bring a dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback 
succeeding and attempting one would be in line with the scheme rules.
I noted that NatWest had not felt that it had had enough information to be able to proceed 
with a chargeback either when Miss H initially approached it in August 2021 or when she 
supplied further information in February and March 2022. 
I went on to consider what the requirements were under the card scheme rules for a 
chargeback to be taken forward where goods or services were not as described or 
defective. As our investigator had said, such a claim needed to be made within 120 days of 
the goods or services being received and NatWest had no control over this deadline. Miss H 
had received the services from MT in August 2021 meaning a chargeback could be raised at 
the latest in December 2021. So by the time Miss H returned to the bank in February 2022 it 
was too late for a chargeback to be raised.
I observed that for a chargeback to be taken forward, the card scheme rules required 
enough information to be provided to fully understand the nature of the dispute. There was 
very little evidence of what information had been submitted to the bank in August and 
September 2021. Neither Miss H nor NatWest had been able to provide much evidence on 
this point, with the only descriptive evidence from the time being the banks internal notes. I 
observed:
The banks initial notes only show that the dispute related to MT, and that it needed 
more information and a description of the service Miss H had purchased, as well as details 
of any attempt she had made to resolve the matter with MT. Further notes in September 
2021 indicate Miss H had said one of the payments to MT was either a duplicate, or a 
refundable deposit, or a refund which had been accidentally put through as another 
payment. But the bank wasnt sure about this because she had entered her PIN for both 
payments and there was no documentation to support what Miss H was saying.
The limited information available about what happened in August and September 
2021 suggests that Miss H was not able to provide evidence of exactly what she had 
purchased and why it wasnt up to standard, or as described, at this point. It also suggests 
that some of the information provided was confusing or contradictory, and so the bank didnt 
feel confident that it could successfully dispute the matter for her via a chargeback.Concluding, I didnt think NatWest could be criticised for not proceeding with a chargeback at 
that point in time  it was fair to consider a chargeback would not have had a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding based on the limited information available. Miss H had commented 
that the bank ought to have told her about the time limits which applied, but I noted that it 
was not required to do so.
I did think, however, that NatWest had not handled the situation in February 2022 as well as 
it could have, finding that:
it should have been obvious to the bank that it was now too late to attempt a chargeback 
and asking Miss H to provide further evidence would not have made a difference. But it went 
on to request more information from her several times, and didnt seem to realise it had been 
too late to attempt a chargeback until after Miss H referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I get the impression the person at the bank Miss H was dealing with 
was trying to be helpful and probably wasnt aware of the deadline, but ultimately I think this 
caused some unnecessary inconvenience and hassle for which the bank should pay a 
moderate amount of compensation.
I said I was minded to decide that NatWest pay Miss H £150 compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience and hassle caused by asking her to provide information which it should have 
known wouldnt make a difference at this stage. I invited all parties to the complaint to reply 
to my provisional decision with any further evidence or arguments for me to consider.
NatWest didnt reply to my provisional decision. A Mrs K replied on behalf of Miss H, who 
she said was too unwell to respond herself. Mrs K explained that she is Miss Hs carer and 
had initially dealt with the bank and that the original complaint had been about the dentist 
helping himself to Miss Hs funds in a fraudulent way by taking further payments from her 
card without her permission. Mrs K said she believed the dentist had hold of Miss Hs 
passport, bank card and PIN while she was abroad. Mrs K was sure that receipts had been 
provided in time to NatWest for the bank to start a chargeback. 
Mrs K noted that Miss Hs health and disabilities were a key factor in the case and the bank 
had discriminated against her. Her health had visibly declined as a result of what had 
happened and the length of time things had taken. She did not think £150 compensation was 
fair in the circumstances and that NatWest should be funding or part-funding Miss Hs 
remedial dentistry, which was now going to cost £7,500 on top of what had been paid to MT. 
The case has now been returned to me to review once again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I continue with my decision I want to reiterate something I said in my provisional 
decision, which is that I am not deciding any claim Miss H may have against the dentist. I am 
only making a decision on how NatWest dealt with the dispute over the dentists work. 
Miss H is in poor health and I acknowledge she has had a terrible experience with the dentist 
which may have made things even worse. I dont lack in sympathy for her in the situation 
shes in, but the level of service shes received from the dentist is separate to the level of 
service shes received from the bank, which is what I am able to look at.I also need to address some points Mrs K has raised on Miss Hs behalf when responding to 
my provisional decision. Firstly, this is the first time it has been made clear to me that this is 
a complaint not just about the dentist doing a poor job and using the wrong type of crowns, 
but also about fraudulently using Miss Hs debit card. This is not a point the bank has 
addressed specifically in any of its written responses to Miss H as far as I can see, nor has it 
been seriously argued before me until after my provisional decision. The evidence Id seen 
up to that point only hinted at a complaint of this type. For that reason, I dont think it would 
be appropriate for me to make any findings on alleged unauthorised use of Miss Hs card by 
the dentist. This is something NatWest will need to look into, and this may then lead to 
another complaint which could be referred to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Secondly, although Miss H had referred to discrimination, this was again a point which was 
raised with us later, and was initially focused on the fairness of the chargeback deadlines. As 
mentioned in my provisional decision, NatWest wouldnt have any control over these 
deadlines, so I cant say that applying the deadlines would have been unfair of the bank or 
discriminatory. 
The points now raised by Mrs K on Miss Hs behalf are about discrimination more generally 
 this isnt something NatWest has had an opportunity to respond to formally so, as with the 
point about the dentist making unauthorised transactions on Miss Hs card, this is something 
the bank will need to look into and address with Miss H.
Turning to the main points I addressed in my provisional decision, I do not think the 
information provided by Mrs K on behalf of Miss H changes anything about my provisional 
findings. I remain of the view that, based on the limited evidence available of the 
communications which took place with NatWest in August or September 2021, the bank was 
presented with a somewhat confusing picture of what had happened and that it wasnt 
unreasonable of it to decide at that point in time that it didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding with a chargeback on the basis that the dental work was not as described or 
defective. And, when Miss H came back to NatWest in February 2022, it was unfortunately 
too late for a chargeback to be attempted.
The bank then put Miss H to unnecessary effort by asking her for further evidence and 
information when it should have been apparent that it was too late for a chargeback to be 
attempted and that this information would therefore make no difference. The amount of 
compensation I referred to in my provisional decision was based only on the impact of the 
unnecessary requests for information. And thats because it is the only area where Ive found 
the bank didnt act fairly or reasonably. I still think £150 is an appropriate amount of 
compensation in respect of this failing.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained in this final decision, including the summary of and extracts from 
my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay her £150 compensation.
Assuming Miss H wishes it to do so, NatWest should also review her complaint about the 
dentist taking unauthorised payments from her debit card, and her concerns about being 
treated in a discriminatory way (to the extent not already addressed in this final decision).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman