DRN-4174589
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr W applied for a credit card with NatWest. NatWest approved the 
application and gave Mr W a card with an initial credit limit of £5250. 
Mr W complained that NatWest had lent irresponsibly to him.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
giving the card to Mr W.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that NatWest had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed had a previous complaint upheld and provided a letter from 
his GP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ws complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, NatWest needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mr W could sustainably repay wheat was being lent to him. Theres no set list 
of checks a lender has to complete. But lenders must have regard to things such as the 
amount of the loan, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and the consumers 
individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
When Mr W applied for the credit card, he declared net monthly income of £3500. NatWest 
used an automated credit decision tool to verify this. As part of its affordability assessment, 
NatWest took into account the monthly expenditure declared by Mr W in his application. It 
also carried out a credit search to see how much unsecured debt Mr W had and what his 
monthly debt repayments were.
Based on the information from these checks, NatWest calculated that Mr W had net monthly 
disposable income of around £1200 and decided that the credit card was affordable for him.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that NatWest completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I havent seen anything in the information gathered by NatWest which wouldve 
given it cause for concern or which wouldve meant that further checks shouldve been 
completed.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr W was struggling to repay his credit commitments or that he was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay the credit card. There was no adverse information on Mr Ws credit file. 
NatWest was able to see Mr Ws current account and the statements showed that he had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the credit card. For these reasons, I think NatWest 
made a fair lending decision.
Ive taken account of everything Mr W has said. Hes made reference to another complaint 
which was decided in his favour. Hes also provided a letter from his GP. Ive reviewed Mr 
Ws other complaint. However, this relates to a lending decision in 2015-2017, which is over 
a year before Mr W applied for the credit card which is the subject of this complaint. This 
service assesses every complaint on its own merits. Mr Ws previous complaint relates to a 
different time period and his financial circumstances were different at that time. I appreciate 
that Mr W experienced financial difficulties sometime after he took out the credit card but I 
havent seen anything to suggest that NatWest ought to have foreseen this at the time of 
application.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws GP letter. However, theres nothing to indicate that these issues were 
present at the time of application and even if they were, I cant see that NatWest were made 
aware of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman