DRN-1651204
Complaint
Mr T complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos) didnt refund his Argos account following the return of goods purchased 
under a Buy Now Pay Later plan (BNPL). 
Background
Mr T has several BNPL plans with Argos. Mr T purchased goods from Argos but returned 
one of them and requested a refund. On checking his Argos statement Mr T couldnt see any 
evidence that he had been refunded the money for the item he had returned and he 
complained to Argos. 
Argos says they have refunded the money for the purchase and it is documented in his 
statements. Argos has said under its terms and conditions refunds made are used to clear 
any outstanding BNPL plans in order of their expiry date and not refunded against any 
individual purchase. Argos provided Mr T with an explanation of how the refund was 
allocated but Mr T still felt that they hadnt refunded him for the item he returned. 
Mr T then referred the matter to this service. The investigator gathered all the necessary 
information available but didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. The investigator was satisfied from 
the statements he had seen and the explanation from Argos surrounding how refunds are 
credited, that Mr T had been refunded correctly.
Mr T wasnt happy with this and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons - I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
In considering this complaint I have looked at whether Argos refunded the correct amount for 
the returned goods and in reasonable time. 
I can see that it would be upsetting for Mr T to believe he hadnt been refunded for returned 
goods, but this isnt the case here.
Argos refund process is to reduce any outstanding BNPL plans in order of their expiry 
dates.  I can see Mr T might expect this to show on his account as a credit to replicate the 
purchase he made and this is possibly the source of confusion here. 
Argos did not re-credit the £99.99 as one payment but allocated this refund to Mr Ts existing 
BNPL plans in order of their expiry dates. In this case two plans were re-credited, one plan 
was cleared owing £30 and the second reduced by £69.99. This is inline with Argos terms and conditions under its BNPL plans. A breakdown of the allocated refund has been 
provided to this service and to Mr T by Argos. 
I have seen from Mr Ts March 2019 Argos statement, provided to this service, the opening 
balance was £624.98 and the closing balance was £628.96.  The statement and receipt 
summary shows Mr T made three purchases in March totaling £133.97 which included the 
item he returned for £99.99. That same month Mr T also made a BNPL plan payment of £30 
to his Argos account and a refund was made of £99.99 so the net balance increased by 
£3.98 .  I am satisfied this reconciles with the opening and closing balances on his March 
2019 statement. 
Argos also provided this service with a statement summary from January 2019 to May 2019 
to help clarify the account transactions and this was shared with Mr T. Mr T has not provided 
any evidence that the refund of £99.99 on his statement was of his making and not by Argos, 
so it follows I am satisfied the refund has been correctly processed by them. 
Whilst I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision I am satisfied that he hasnt been 
financially disadvantaged and I wont be asking anymore of Argos. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman