DRN-3836950
The complaint
Mr R complained that Tradestation International Ltd (Tradestation) provided a poor 
service when he tried to subscribe to a trading platform. He said he had difficulty 
obtaining market data and did not receive good service when he complained about this. 
What happened
Mr R subscribed to a third-party trading platform and paid a monthly fee to obtain market 
data. He did this through Tradestation who acted as a broker to help facilitate this. Mr R 
contacted Tradestation on 30 September 2022 and then many times after this date, as 
he had issues subscribing and receiving the market data that he was paying a monthly 
fee for.
Mr R said he submitted logs, screenshots and used different versions of the trading 
platform to try and get the market data that he was paying for. He said he did all that he 
was asked on many occasions but was not getting a solution to the issues he reported. 
He said he had received significant delays to his requests, sometimes being ignored 
completely and on other occasions not receiving the answers he needed. Mr R also 
made comments about what Tradestation should do and what it should put in place to 
improve.
Tradestation responded and said Mr R had not suffered a financial loss. It said this is 
because Mr R was not using a live trading service, so he had not lost any money on 
commission or financial loss on any trades. It said it had said sorry, refunded Mr R his 
monthly subscriptions on market data fees and paid £100 to him in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. It felt it had been fair in its response to his complaint. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Tradestations response so referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he was satisfied the 
business had made a fair offer. He said he wouldnt be asking it to pay Mr R anymore in 
compensation. He said Mr R had not made any financial losses and Tradestation had 
already paid it £100 for distress and inconvenience which he felt was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree. He felt Tradestations offer had not taken into consideration the amount 
of stress and inconvenience it had put him through. He said it had taken several months 
to sort out and this had not been reflected in the amount of money paid by Tradestation. 
He said he had not received a clear explanation as to why he had experienced the issue 
with market data, or why there were delays in it responding to him. He said he had not 
received an answer about any of this or a formal apology.
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all submissions provided by both parties and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of 
probabilities, and as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. My role does not involve applying any 
regulatory or disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or 
shouldnt operate.  
I have not upheld Mr Rs complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
I can see Mr R contacted Tradestation on many occasions to try and resolve the 
issues he said he had with regards to obtaining market data, something that he 
had subscribed to.
Tradestation has returned the fees that Mr R paid for the service that he says he 
did not receive. Tradestation has also paid £100 compensation to him for distress 
and inconvenience. 
I am satisfied that Tradestation has done enough here with regards to Mr Rs 
complaint. It has taken responsibility for Mr R not being able to access market 
data. It has refunded the subscription fees to Mr R. And it has made a payment of 
£100 in recognition of the inconvenience that it would have caused Mr R by him 
trying to get this service up and running. I have looked at the amount of times Mr 
R has contacted Tradestation and the inconvenience this all would have been for 
him. I acknowledge the strength of feeling in his complaint about this. But I think 
£100 is fair and in line with similar complaints like Mr Rs that I have seen and 
dealt with. 
Mr R said he hadnt received a formal apology from Tradestation about his 
complaint. Tradestation on the other hand has told our service it has said sorry. I 
dont know what has happened here, but I can see that Tradestation has said 
sorry in correspondence to our service for not responding to Mr R properly.
Mr R said that there were issues with the service provided by Tradestation after it 
had offered and paid compensation to him. But I am satisfied that it has dealt with 
Mr Rs substantive complaint in a fair and reasonable way so I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
Mr R said Tradestation should do more with regards to how it responds to 
support requests, emails, and letters. He said it should have a more robust 
system in place. I do not have any powers to direct a business in how to operate 
its services in general. So, whilst I recognise Mr Rs frustrations, I cant direct 
Tradestation to change the way it responds to support tickets, emails, or letters.
Looked at overall, I am satisfied Tradestation has provided compensation to Mr R that is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances  so theres nothing further it needs to do to put 
things right.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr R, but I hope he will at least feel 
that his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman