DRN-2019435
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to 
contribute to repair costs under the terms of his breakdown repair policy. 
Mr O took the Acromas policy alongside roadside assistance cover from a well-known 
motoring organisation (MO). MO administers the breakdown repair policy on Acromas 
behalf. So, for ease, Ill refer to MOs actions as being Acromas except where those arent 
Acromas responsibility, for example where MO was providing another service such as 
breakdown recovery.
What happened
Mr O called MO because his car was showing a red warning light. MO advised Mr O to top 
up the cars coolant. A few days later Mr O's car broke down and he called MO again. It sent 
out one of its mobile mechanics to help him. The mechanic said the car was losing coolant 
and would need to be repaired at a garage. The mechanic told Mr O to drive to a garage with 
the mechanic following him. During that journey Mr Os car started showing an amber 
warning light associated with its ABS system. 
The garage repaired Mr Os cars coolant problem and diagnosed a separate issue with a 
sensor in the wheel causing the amber ABS light to come on. Acromas told Mr O that it 
would cover his claim for the coolant issue but said he wasn't covered for the ABS problem.
Mr O didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He thought Acromas had dealt with Mr O reasonably. Mr O didn't agree, so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr Os policy says that if certain criteria are met then Acromas will contribute up to £500 for 
the costs of repairing his car following a breakdown. But Acromas won't contribute £500 
towards each and every repair his car might need. And in order for a claim to be eligible MO 
must have attended a breakdown which caused the car not to start or stopped it from 
continuing its journey safely. And there are things the policy doesn't cover, which includes:
any faults identified by, or reported to, the [MO] mobile mechanic, [MO] appointed 
garage agent, or Your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial Breakdown.
In other words the policy will cover a contribution towards repairing the cause of the initial 
breakdown where MO attended but not for anything else that might arise or be identified 
afterwards. And Acromas declined Mr Os claim for the ABS issue on that basis. That is 
because the ABS issue wasn't the cause of the initial breakdown, Acromas decided the 
policy didn't cover it.
 
Mr Os says there are two separate incidents: the initial coolant issue and the ABS issue. 
Hes said that when the ABS light came on he suggested to the mobile mechanic that he 
should call MO to report it but the mechanic told him not to. His argument being that if hed 
called MO for a second time to report a new breakdown, unrelated to the coolant issue, then 
Acromas would have covered the claim for the ABS issue. But I don't think hes right.
It's not in dispute that Mr O didn't initially call to report the ABS issue. He only reported the 
coolant issue. And Mr O reported the ABS warning light concern directly to the mobile 
mechanic while the car was on route to the garage as part of the first breakdown. As such I 
think that situation falls squarely within the policy exclusion I've quoted above. That is, the 
ABS issue was secondary to the reason for the initial breakdown and Mr O first reported it to 
the mobile mechanic. So a claim for that issue was excluded by the policy term.
I understand Mr O feels the mobile mechanic's advice not to call MO denied him the 
opportunity to make a second legitimate claim. But I don't think that's right. As I've already 
said by that time Mr O had already reported the issue to the mobile mechanic. So, whether 
hed rung MO or not, hed already reported a secondary issue to the mobile mechanic which 
didn't cause the initial breakdown. And in those circumstances I think the above exclusion 
would apply, even if Mr O had gone ahead and rang MO.
Mr Os told us that the only reason Acromas gave for refusing part of the claim was because 
he hadn't called MO to report the ABS issue. But I think hes mistaken. That's because 
Acromas notes of the calls with Mr O refer specifically to the exclusion I've quoted above. 
Further I can see it told him that an amber ABS warning light wouldn't usually be considered 
to be a breakdown event which would prevent the car from continuing its journey safely. And 
in those circumstances the claim wouldn't be covered. And having thought about this very 
carefully Im satisfied that Acromas has fairly applied the policy terms to refuse to cover the 
ABS claim. So I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman