DRN-4220355
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lendable Ltd was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss S had one loan from Lendable in May 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 14 May 2021 £9,530 36m £313.46 27 April 2024 26 Aug 2022
Miss S says Lendable approved her loan within minutes of her applying online. She says she 
had an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), a County Court Judgement (CCJ) and 
defaults on her credit record and Lendable should never have lent to her. Miss S says she 
had to borrow money to make the repayments and is still repaying the person who lent to 
her.
Lendable says all affordability, credit and income checks were carried out and Miss S fulfilled 
its criteria. It says there was nothing of concern on her credit file and it verified her income 
before approving the loan. Lendable adds that Miss S made her repayments on time before 
repaying the loan early, in August 2022.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt consider 
there was anything in the information collected by Lendable that should have indicated the 
lending was unsustainable.
Miss S responded to say, in summary, that she should never have been given the loan as 
she was in an IVA at the time and also had two defaulted accounts and a CCJ.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss S applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Lendable checked her credit 
file and verified her income. These checks showed:
A verified income of £1,665 per month;
13 active credit accounts:
oEight had a zero balance and one credit card had a balance of £1;
oTwo other credit cards had a total balance of £896 from a £4,250 combined 
credit limit;
oTwo telecom accounts had monthly repayments totalling £52;
There was a County Court Judgment dating from April 2017 that had been satisfied in 
October 2017;
A Debt Relief Order started in June 2016 and was discharged a year later;
There were defaulted accounts from late 2015 to June 2016, but all had been 
satisfied by June 2017.
Based on the above, Miss S was managing her current credit well and was regular making 
well over the minimum payments towards her credit cards. It is evident that Miss S had been 
in significant financial difficulties previously, but all her debts had been cleared in June 2017 
 almost four years before the loan application. I am also satisfied that Miss Ss credit 
commitments were a small percentage of her verified income and so it was reasonable for 
Lendable not to consider it needed to carry out further checks with regard to her regular 
expenditure, especially as she was not overdrawn and able to make large payments on her 
credit cards.
I acknowledge that Miss S says she was in an IVA at the time, but this did not appear on the 
credit check carried out by Lendable. However, I note the reference number provided was, in 
fact, for a Debt Relief Order which was shown in the credit check and, therefore, would have 
been taken into account by Lendable in its lending decision.
In summary, I find that, based on all the information it gathered, Lendable carried out 
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. I note Miss S made all her 
repayments on time before settling the loan early in August 2022. I accept she says that she 
had to borrow money from elsewhere in order to do that, but I cant see Lendable acted 
unfairly either with its lending decision, or in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 Amanda Williams
Ombudsman