DRN-4518758
The complaint
Ms G complains about advice she received from Openwork Limited when taking out a life 
insurance policy. 
What happened
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
After reviewing everything I came to a different outcome to our Investigator. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2023 in which I said:
Ms G has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Ms G that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some things that happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
The policy was set up around the time there were discussions between Openwork and Ms G 
about her taking out a mortgage. From what Ive seen the proposed mortgage amount and 
term matched the policy details which would make it suitable for that purpose. I also see that 
several applications were submitted with different lenders, but none of them proceeded. 
Ms G says that the policy was a requirement of the mortgage application, but Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence thats the case. This was an advised sale so its possible Ms G was 
told the policy was useful and suitable, which this type of cover generally is when taking out 
a mortgage.   
Openwork say Ms G agreed to the policy starting before a mortgage was set up. They 
havent provided any proof of this saying it was agreed verbally.  
They also say Ms G was told she could cancel the policy directly with the product provider 
should she wish. Ms G however says she was told not to cancel the policy. Having looked at 
all the information I havent seen any persuasive evidence either way.
Because of the conflicting evidence Ive taken a look at the wider circumstances of what 
happened around the time of the sale.
Openwork have provided advice notes from the time of the sale which say the life policy is 
for her grand-daughter to inherit. So at the time its recorded that the policy was for 
inheritance as well as to cover a mortgage. Ms G says there is no indication of inheritance, 
however recorded notes from the time indicate there was some kind of discussion about that 
requirement.
The recommendation letter about the policy says I have recommended that this policy is 
placed in trust and have provided you with the appropriate documentation to complete. 
Placing a policy in trust would typically been done in connection with inheritance planning 
rather than to solely cover a mortgage of the type Ms G was applying for. So Im persuaded 
by the evidence from the time that the policy was required for some kind of family protection 
as well as to cover the mortgage.  
The mortgage applications didnt proceed but since I think there was a dual reason for the 
cover Im satisfied it was a suitable recommendation. 
In September 2021 Ms G cancelled the policy. She was contacted by the policy provider 
directly and agreed to have it reinstated. At that time there was still no mortgage in place and 
no application had been approved. Ms G says at the time Openwork were still trying to find a 
suitable mortgage and thats why the policy was reinstated. The policy was cancelled again 
some few months later. 
Ive looked at all the available information and having done so I think the policy was suitable. 
Evidence from the time shows the policy was taken out for both a mortgage and for family 
protection. Im persuaded by the information from the time about inheritance planning which 
goes some way to explaining why the policy started before the mortgage had been agreed. 
And the policy was also suitable for the mortgage Ms G was planning to take out.   
Openwork have said they will waive the cancellation fee so Ms G should contact them 
directly to discuss this. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the policy was suitable 
and dont require Openwork to take any action. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions before I issued my final 
decision. 
Ms G replied disagreeing with the decision saying that it was the product provider who 
advised her to make a complaint about the sale of the policy. 
Openwork didnt provide any further comments. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about the response from Ms G I find myself coming to the same 
conclusion as my provisional decision. I think the policy was suitable and I havent seen any 
evidence which persuades me that Ms G was told not to cancel the policy. 
Ive conducted an independent review of everything from both parties when coming to an 
outcome. As I explained in my provisional decision, where there is conflicting information, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. 
At the time the policy was sold Ms G was looking to take out a mortgage. From what Ive 
seen the policy matched the details of at least one mortgage application from that time. 
There is also persuasive evidence that the policy was being taken out for family protection and a trust deed was sent out but never completed.
I dont doubt that the were times when the policy was running that Ms G didnt hear from 
Openwork and there were communication issues. But this doesnt mean the policy wasnt 
suitable when it was sold. Also the policy was cancelled directly with the product provider but 
then reinstated. This would seem to indicate that the policy was required.  
Having thought about everything Im satisfied the policy was suitable so wont be asking 
Openwork to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman