DRN-3101892
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the actions of Santander UK Plc surrounding payments he made to a 
trading platform. He is also unhappy that they didnt clearly communicate what he needed to 
provide to raise a chargeback. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 Mr R made a series of payments 
using his Santander debit card to a merchant Ill refer to as T. 
The payments totalled around £4,500. There were also two credits to Mr Rs account from T 
which totalled around £400. In February 2019 Mr R wrote to Santander, part of his letter 
said:
It is with great disappointment that I have to make this claim against [T] and ask for a refund 
of the money I have invested because the product I was sold was not the product I received. 
The good were not as described and the information contained herein proves it.
On 2 March 2019 Santander wrote to Mr R and part of their letter said: Please provide: a 
dated copy of the withdrawal request, response to withdrawal request a copy/screen print 
of the trading account showing the available balance
Further to this, Santanders notes of a call dated 22 March 2019 record that: the customer 
has been asked to provide: a dated copy of the withdrawal request; response to the 
withdrawal request and a copy or screen print of the trading account showing the available 
balance Customer has said that cant go back in time to the 20/11/2018 and get a screen 
shot of the available balance at that time, this is unavailable.
Santander say that they were ultimately unable to pursue a chargeback because Mr R 
wasnt able to provide the required evidence. Mr R complained and the matter was referred 
to our service. In September 2021 one of our investigators explained to Mr R that he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint seems to be that he wants Santander to refund him the money 
he paid to T. Whilst there are some protections under the relevant chargeback scheme, this 
isnt a guarantee of a refund. For clarity, I dont think Santander were wrong to process the 
card payments in line with their mandate to do so. Even if any of the payments to T were 
unusual enough to prompt some intervention by the bank, I dont think this would have made 
a difference. 
At the relevant time T were registered with the FCA. So, I dont think Santander contacting 
Mr R and giving him a warning of the potential for fraud and scams around trading / 
investing, would have prevented him making any of the payments. 
As all the payments were made on a debit card, chargeback was the only option for 
Santander to potentially pursue a refund for Mr R. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by 
Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration 
decisions or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. 
Santander) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
Santander to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it 
succeeding. And a lack of the required evidence is one scenario where I think a claim would 
be unlikely to succeed. 
The potentially relevant chargeback reason under the scheme rules here was 13.5. This 
required Santander to present dated evidence that Mr R had an available balance (in the 
form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums 
equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day.
I appreciate by Mr Rs comments from the call note referred to above that he wasnt able to 
provide this evidence due to the live nature of Ts system. I also appreciate that Mr R has 
outlined numerous other issues he had with T. But none of those are issues that can be 
pursued under the chargeback scheme. That isnt to say that Mr R doesnt have a valid 
complaint about T, just that the chargeback scheme isnt able to assist him with those 
concerns. 
I think the letter and the call that Ive referenced above make clear the information that was 
required. I dont agree with Mr R that Santander didnt make this clear enough or that they 
provided poor service to the extent that more needs to be done. And overall, Im satisfied 
Mr R did not present the required evidence and so, chargeback wouldnt have been an 
option for him. So I dont think Santander acted unfairly when not taking things further. 
Im sorry to hear Mr R lost the funds he paid to T. But in the circumstances of this complaint, 
I dont think Santander have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman