DRN-3184179
The complaint
Mr F says the advice given and the arrangements made by Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited (Fairstone) to switch his pension funds into a plan with Royal 
London and recommended investments, reduced the tax-free cash (TFC) he was able to 
access.
What happened
Mr F sought advice from Fairstone about his retirement arrangements. He had five personal 
pension plans and wanted to consolidate his provision. In October 2019 it gathered 
information about his objectives, circumstances and appetite for risk. 
Fairstone summarised Mr Fs goals as:
- To understand more about his existing pension plans.
- To understand what retirement income he might receive at the state retirement age.
- To understand if his current arrangements were appropriate for his circumstances.
- To boost investment performance, reduce costs and ensure that he was invested 
consistent with his risk appetite.
- To benefit from ongoing advice.
It identified some of these matters at a more granular level, for example it recorded:
[Mr F] has also stated that the future availability of [flexible access drawdown] is important 
to him. He recognises that ultimately his State pension and [his partners] State pension may 
be sufficient for the anticipated income needs in retirement. He therefore believes that 
flexibility may be important. [Mr F] also indicated that they may be considering a house move 
and access to cash may be important. I pointed out that the ability to access cash, and 
whether or not it is in his/their long-term financial interests are two different matters. 
Nonetheless he wanted the ability to access cash but accepted the need to take advice 
before doing so.
Fairstone reiterated Mr Fs goals in the suitability report it produced for him dated 6 
December 2019. This also noted that one of Mr Fs aims was to access a Flexible Access 
Drawdown (FAD) arrangement.
On 8 December, Fairstone completed a template issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) used to review pension advice suitability. This was a way of gaining assurance around 
matters such as the cost of the new arrangement, whether the recommendations were 
appropriate for a clients risk appetite, and so on.
As part of the FCA template assessment Fairstone recorded:
[Mr F] has a number of personal pension arrangements, and finds this confusing. He wishes 
to consolidate into a single arrangement if possible[He] is also aware that the returns on 
the Phoenix plans is relatively poor, and he wishes to improve this to achieve a better 
outcome in retirement. He also anticipates needing the flexibilities offered by a [FAD] in the 
future, which cannot be offered by the existing arrangements.
Fairstone also noted future drawdown was one of the drivers for Mr F to switch his pension.
Mr F was 55, employed and earning around £34,000 a year. He was divorced and living 
with his partner. They didnt have any financial dependents. Household income was said 
to broadly match outgoings. Mr F owned his house which was recorded as being worth 
£120,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £65,000.
Fairstone recommended Mr F retain two of his pension plans. One was the arrangement he 
had at the time with his employer, which was making contributions. The second was a Legal 
& General plan which benefitted from enhanced TFC entitlement.
Fairstone recommended Mr F switch his three other pension plans, two of which were with 
Phoenix and one with Aviva. These had a total transfer value at the time of the advice of 
around £105,000 (before allowing for the costs of its advice). It said he should move his 
funds to a personal pension with Royal London and invest in its Governed Portfolio 4 fund, 
which was suitable for his assessed risk appetite.
Mr F was ultimately persuaded to accept Fairstones recommendations. He signed the 
application forms on 12 December 2019. Royal London received the funds from Aviva and 
Phoenix after a couple of weeks. And a welcome pack was issued to him by Royal London 
on 31 December 2019.
By February 2020 Mr F wanted to access his TFC to put towards the purchase of a new 
home with his partner. A quote was requested from Royal London. The illustration dated 18 
February 2020 showed a pension value of £103,671 with 25% of this available as TFC. The 
next day Fairstone issued a suitability letter recommending the withdrawal.
Mr F contacted Royal London with a view to accessing his TFC on 6 March 2020. It sent the 
relevant application forms on 11 March 2020. Around this time the financial markets had 
been very unsettled because of the Covid pandemic. His fund value fell significantly, with a 
resultant impact on his TFC.
Mr F complained to Fairstone about what had happened in April 2020. He thought something 
had gone wrong in setting up his new pension arrangements. When he wanted to access his 
TFC it wasnt immediately available, he had to complete more paperwork. By the time 
everything had been completed his fund had eroded still further.
Fairstone issued its final response on 18 May 2020 rejecting Mr Fs complaint. It said he 
received two distinct pieces of advice. The first was to switch his pensions, consolidating his 
provision and providing him with a more flexible arrangement. It says the advice it provided 
in February 2020 about assessing his TFC was separate. It says it cant be held responsible 
for market volatility. And it was Mr Fs decision to crystalise part of his pension in a falling 
market which led to his financial loss.
An Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint and upheld it. He thought Fairstone hadnt 
got to the bottom of Mr Fs requirements as part of its initial advice in December 2019. 
Had it done so then he thought hed have ended up with an arrangement that placed 
25% of his funds in cash and readily accessible when he needed it.
Fairstone disagreed with the Investigator and so Mr Fs complaint has been passed to 
me for review and a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Fairstone for Mr F. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Fairstone. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1 sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. They 
are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice was 
suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: the 
consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their 
financial situation; and their investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2 goes on to establish that:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2)The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.(3)The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
In order to advise Mr F to switch his personal pensions into an alternative arrangement 
with Royal London and the investments it recommended, Fairstone had to obtain 
information to understand the essential facts about him. Based on the available evidence, 
I dont think it met all the obligations placed on it.
Considering the advice exercise conducted by Fairstone for Mr F, in most respects this was 
comprehensive and professional. But Ive concluded there was a failing in the advice it gave 
him in December 2019, which led to his financial detriment.
Like the Investigator, I dont think Fairstone got to the bottom of Mr Fs requirements in 
December 2019. The fact find and suitability letter make no mention of access to TFC cash, 
with the former confirming his funds should remain invested for a minimum of 5 years. Yet 
the fact-find notes and FCA pension switching template note the importance of flexibility and 
access to cash.
There are no clarifying questions or notes within the advice file where additional information 
clarifies these matters. Was Mr Fs house up for sale? When was he planning to move? 
When was access to TFC likely to required? Should 100% of the transferred funds be 
invested? Or was access likely to be needed within the next year or so? Did Mr F 
understand the potential risks of leaving some of his funds in cash? What would be the 
impact on his pension of taking TFC? And so on.
An advisers note on file around the time Fairstone was giving him advice about accessing 
his TFC in February 2020 is revealing. It says:
Towards the end of 2019 I advised [Mr F] in respect of amalgamating his Phoenix and Aviva 
PPs into a single Royal London arrangementThis is detailed in my report of 6 December 
2019.
During our "general" discussions it was mentioned that the house was up for sale, with the 
ultimate intention being a move to a new home with his partner- following his"messy" 
divorce. A new start in effect.
The house that they have chosen can accommodate children from both previous 
relationships and is therefore a new family home. This is important to them for several very 
understandable reasons.
During the course of our discussions and the transfer process the house was sold, and it 
transpired that to get the new house that [Mr F and his partner] wanted they need about 
£25,000 to make it work
In December 2019 Fairstone told Mr F it was important that he was aware that its 
recommendations exposed some or all his pension funds to the stock market. It said he 
should therefore be prepared to hold these investments for a minimum period of five years. 
This recommendation seems flawed, based on what it knew about his situation.
Fairstone was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr F in 
the round. Its role to discern what Mr Fs wants and needs were and why. It had to use due 
care and skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. But as Ive 
set out, it hasnt demonstrated it did this in all areas.In its last submission to this Service rejecting the Investigators recommendations, Fairstone 
said:
The complainants circumstances [changed] in that a possibility became a certainty, albeit 
within a comparatively short timescale, and it is largely with the benefit of hindsight that your 
position is such as it is. The suitability of advice must be judged on the basis of the 
complainants circumstances at the time of the advice and not with any benefit of hindsight.
It is neither fair nor reasonable for a financial adviser to be expected to provide advice to 
cover all eventualities which is, in effect, your position. At the time that the complainants 
circumstances changed such that he required tax free cash then the second advice was 
provided to himYou are in effect suggesting that the complainant should have been 
advised to immediately crystallise in December 2019, whereas at that point his existing 
property was not sold and there was a subsequent issue in obtaining mortgage finance. 
Thankfully for the complainant both issues were subsequently resolved, but it could not have 
known that they would be resolved, the whole enterprise could have failed.
It would not have been suitable advice, we submit, to (in some way) ringfence the PCLS 
available in 2019 on receipt of transferred funds in a cash fund on the off chance that those 
funds would be required within the short term of indeed, in accordance with your logic, at any 
point within 5 years of the initial investment.
I understand the points Fairstone makes. I disagree because:
- Mr Fs requirement to be able to access cash and his housing plans were known  so 
these were not matters of hindsight, as it argues. Rather, there was an obligation on 
it to use foresight given what it knew. Had it explored Mr Fs situation more 
thoroughly, I dont think the problem now encountered wouldve arisen.
- Mr F says he made it clear to Fairstone at the outset that he would require TFC. His 
testimony is aligned with the fact-find and associated notes on file. I find this position 
more persuasive than Fairstones assertion that what appears to be required is for 
advisers to cater for all eventualities. I agree they cant, but that isnt what Im saying. 
It simply needed to get to the bottom of an important aspect of Mr Fs known 
circumstances
- I think its significant that just six weeks after hed received Fairstones first advice, Mr 
F sought to access his TFC. This adds weight to the documentary evidence on file 
about his requirements and situation. I note he and his partner completed on the 
purchase of their new home a few months after accessing his TFC.
I agree with the Investigator when he concluded the volatility in the investment market in 
early 2020 was outside of Fairstones control. The fluctuating values of the recommended 
Royal London Governed Portfolio 4 was not its responsibility and as such any losses or 
performance issues in relation to the 75% of his fund is not considered further.
But, given the information available, I dont think the advice Fairstone gave Mr F in 
December 2019 to invest the other 25% of his pension funds (that element he was entitled to 
access as TFC) was suitable. I think its more likely than not had it ascertained his 
requirements with grater skill and care it wouldve recommended arrangements placing 
these funds into a cash or near cash holding enabling his access as and when required.
Such a recommendation wouldve meant a significant chunk of Mr Fs pension funds were 
out of the market and so unable to benefit from any potential uptick in performance. But I 
think its more likely than not Mr F wouldve foregone any potential benefits given the 
flexibility he required. And if hed had a change of heart later - say because his house move never took place - the information Fairstone wouldve gathered in support of its 
recommendations wouldve meant its position was secure from challenge.
Mr Fs requested that the advice fee of around £2,000 be refunded as well as the fee paid to 
Royal London to access his TFC. The purpose of any redress recommendations I make are 
to put the customer in the position they should be in now had the error not occurred. So, I 
agree with the Investigator on this matter. 
Fairstone undertook considerable work for Mr F, such as the consolidation of his pension 
plans and the investment of the funds according to his risk appetite. While Ive found an 
element of its advice shouldve been different, hed still have required advice to achieve his 
goals. The same principle applies to the fee he paid to Royal London
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Fairstone and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr F fairly Fairstone Financial Management Limited should:
- Compare the TFC received by Mr F with the amount that he wouldve received had 
this element have been available to him as soon as all funds were switched into his 
new pension arrangement on 27 December 2019. It should pay him any shortfall.
- As Mr F has been deprived of the higher TFC amount, interest at 8% simple should 
be added to the shortfall identified, from the date TFC was actually paid until the date 
of settlement.
- In addition, pay Mr F £200 for the trouble and upset caused in relation to the error.
- Provide the details of the calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Fairstone considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F 
how much has been taken off. Fairstone should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. As such, I require 
Fairstone Financial Management Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman