DRN-3087589
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
failed to provide him with the relevant insurance documentation under his taxi insurance 
policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr T took out an insurance policy with Haven which was arranged through his broker. 
Unfortunately, Mr T failed a taxi licence inspection because he had been provided with the 
incorrect insurance certificate for his taxi  his documentation didnt have the correct wording 
for Mr Ts requirements. He missed a few days work and had to travel for a second 
inspection and wants Haven to cover his losses. So, he complained to Haven as he felt it 
should have sent the correct documentation and when it didnt agree he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She said that Haven 
should have known Mr Ts requirements and ensured he had the correct certification. And as 
it didnt it should pay Mr T his loss of earnings and the costs he incurred.
As Haven didnt agree, saying that it was Mr Ts responsibility to ensure that he had the 
correct documentation in order to meet his taxi licence requirement, the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration here, as he believes that Haven shouldve understood his 
taxi licence requirements. And ensured he was provided with the correct documentation, 
especially as his previous insurers had done this. But I dont think Haven have acted 
unreasonably here, Ill explain why. 
I accept the general point that Mr T makes and that, in an ideal world, Haven should have 
sent him the correct documentation. But I would expect Mr T to know what his own taxi 
licencing authority required from him in order to be able to operate in his locality. And to 
ensure that he had the correct documentation displayed in order to undertake his profession. 
Furthermore, Haven has explained that it expects taxi drivers to know this and to ask for any 
additional documentation they require. It highlights that all taxi licencing authorities have 
different requirements and it wasnt to know what Mr T did or didnt need. I know Mr T has 
said that his licensing authority have told Haven before about this and its requirements, but I 
havent seen any evidence of this.
Given all of this, I cant say Haven have done anything wrong here. I say this as I think 
someone in Mr Ts profession should know what he is required to do in order to meet his 
licensing requirements and ensure they do it. So, although I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T Im not upholding his complaint.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. 
Haven didnt pass any further comment while Mr T reiterated his position and suggested my 
view was one-sided. 
Mr T said he was very disappointed and felt Haven shouldve made sure the documentation 
he provided covered his business needs and ensured that his documentation was correctly 
worded. He said he simply checked the name and date on the policy and would expect 
Haven to know the wording he required as he has specified the area of the country he 
worked in. Indeed, Mr T found it difficult to believe that he should know what wording and 
insurance documentation he required in order to operate as a taxi driver.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to rehearse the arguments again here as neither side have raised any fresh 
information or evidence. But I wish to make it clear to Mr T that I have considered both sides 
positions in looking at this complaint. And I have considered all the evidence afresh in 
forming my final decision. 
Ultimately, Mr T feels that Haven should know what his taxi licensing authority requires and 
provide him with the correct documentation. 
But I do feel that Mr T should know what his own licensing authority require in order to 
operate as a taxi driver in his locality and should check all his paperwork is in order. And 
when his licensing authority checked how he was operating it told him that the wording on 
his documentation wasnt right. It held him personally responsible for this, not his insurer.
So, although I accept Haven could have provided the additional wording he required to 
operate in his locality I dont think it was obligated to. And I take Havens point that it 
provides insurance for different taxi licensing authorities up and down the country and so it 
expects the insured to ask for any additional documentation that may be required. 
Given all of this, I maintain that Haven hasnt done anything wrong here and so Im not 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman