DRN-4506316
The complaint
Ms L complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under her
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
events.
Ms L has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. She made a claim on
the policy in 2015 when her property suffered crack damage because of water escaping from
a collapsed pipe at the rear of her property.
Repairs to the defective pipe were completed by the local water authority in 2015, but in
2018 cracks reappeared in Ms Ls property. Initially UKI concluded the latest damage was
connected to the local authoritys repair of the drain in 2015, and so, told it another repair
was needed. But it later discovered a drain at the front of Ms Ls property was defective and
causing the damage. The drain was repaired and following monitoring of the property 
which confirmed it had stabilised  remedial works were scheduled. But owing to the
pandemic and Ms L awaiting an operation, a later start date of October 2021 was agreed.
The remedial works were due to take three to four weeks. However, the remedial work
wasnt completed until March 2022  with a certificate of structural adequacy being issued in
April 2022.
Unhappy with the time it had taken, Ms L raised a complaint with UKI in June 2022. And she
set out her complaint as follows:
Inadequate investigations during the initial claim meant a second drain  which was
defective  wasnt discovered as being a cause of the damage. And this meant
further repairs to the drains and property were required.
UKI failed to properly investigate the above and her concerns about how the
current claim has been handled.
Issues with the quality of UKIs building contractor  including the quality of
workmanship and poor communication.
UKIs oversight and management of its agents  which led to poor communication
and delays.
In its final response, UKI said its agent could attend Ms Ls property to review the
workmanship to check if it had been carried out in line with the schedule of works. Following
this, it could then decide whether a cash settlement would be made, allowing Ms L to appoint
her own contractor, or whether UKIs contractors would complete the work. It also accepted
parts of Ms Ls claim could have been dealt with more efficiently and so, offered £200
compensation.
Ms L didnt consider the compensation to reflect the difficulties shed experienced, and so,
brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and said: the option
proposed by UKI to have someone attend and review the works was reasonable; he hadnt
seen evidence to persuade him UKI was at fault for not identifying the issue with the second
drain; he was satisfied £200 compensation was fair.
Ms L disagreed and so, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. At
the same time, UKI said this Service couldnt consider Ms Ls complaint about the discovery
of a defective second drain  saying it had already considered the issue in a previous final
response letter and Ms L had brought the matter more than six months after the date of this.
I disagreed and issued a decision explaining why I considered it to be something I could
consider as part of this current complaint.
Having reviewed the merits of Ms Ls complaint, I issued a provisional decision, in which I 
said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response, UKI said its agent could attend Ms Ls property to review the remedial
work and identify any outstanding works  which could then be settled by a cash settlement
or its contractor carrying out the works. And I consider this to be a reasonable way of
progressing the claim. Its not clear if Ms L has agreed to this or not  but if she hasnt told
UKI whether she wants to accept this proposal, shell need to let UKI know. If she has, UKI
will be aware of its obligation to provide a lasting and effective repair in respect of any
remedial work it carries out.
So, whats left for me to consider is whether £200 compensation fairly reflects the difficulties
Ms L experienced. Its not in dispute that the repairs took longer than they ought to have.
UKI has accepted there were multiple visits to address snagging issues which Ms L had
identified and that shed had to arrange additional cleaning of the property. It said its agent
could have provided greater assistance with this and so, offered compensation to recognise
the inconvenience this had caused Ms L.
Delays
With regards to delays, I can only hold UKI responsible for delays which were avoidable. So,
Im not considering the impact of the pandemic and Ms Ls decision to delay repairs for 
personal reasons.
Here, its not in dispute that the repairs were due to take a maximum of four weeks but took
approximately six months instead. So, Ive looked at what happened during the additional
five-month period. From what Ive seen, Ms L raised numerous concerns during this time
about how the claim was being progressed and the quality of the repairs. Its not necessary
for me to detail these here  but there was a plethora of issues, including improper use of
her furniture, damage to existing furniture, leaking radiators, paint marks, and debris to
plants. And Ive not seen evidence which persuades me these concerns were without merit 
UKI has itself said Ms L highlighted many snagging issues which its agent should have
identified and rectified.
So, whilst UKI having to investigate Ms Ls concerns slowed down how the claim progressed
 ultimately, this is still attributable to UKIs handling of the claim, as if there werent
snagging issues in the first place, time wouldnt have had to be spent dealing with thesematters.
Ms L says more compensation is warranted because in her opinion, had UKI carried out
adequate drain investigations in 2015, the second drain would have been repaired at that
time and the damage  which is the subject of this complaint  would have been prevented.
Meaning she wouldnt have experienced the inconvenience and distress of a second
subsidence claim. Whilst I understand her argument, Im not persuaded UKI can reasonably
be held accountable for not identifying and repairing the second drain in 2015 - I say this for
a few reasons.
First, several agencies - including the local water authority were involved in the first claim
and none of them identified the issue with the second drain. They were instead satisfied the
damage could reasonably be attributed to the defective local water authority pipe at the rear
of Ms Ls property.
Second, the defective drain in this current claim is at the front of Ms Ls house - whereas the
previous claim was for a pipe at the rear and so, wasnt in the vicinity. With this in mind, Im
not persuaded it would have been reasonable to expect UKI to survey all the underground
pipes to ensure they were defect free when a credible cause for the damage had already
been identified at the rear of Ms Ls property.
Communication
Ms L has said UKIs agents communication was poor during the repairs but from what Ive
seen, her queries were investigated and largely dealt with in a prompt manner. And so, Im
not persuaded the communication was below a standard which would prompt me to award
compensation for it.
Consequential loss
Ms L has said were it not for UKIs poor handling of her claim, she would have sold her
house and benefited from lower interest rates  so shes financially worse off. I dont doubt
this has been a stressful time for Ms L and that having to change her plans has been
upsetting. But Im not persuaded UKI are solely responsible for her not being able to move
house at the time she intended to do so.
As Ive said above, Im not persuaded UKI can be held responsible for the damage which
occurred in 2018. And with the pandemic, Ms Ls personal circumstances  which resulted in 
the repairs start date being pushed back  there are other factors which impacted Ms Ls 
ability to sell her house as intended. Ive also not been provided with evidence which shows 
a sale was imminent. And so, based on what I do have, I wont be asking UKI to pay 
additional compensation in respect of this part of Ms Ls complaint.
On balance, I do consider UKI to be largely responsible for the delays which occurred during
the period the remedial works were carried out - as had it carried out adequate repairs,
additional time wouldnt have been spent rectifying issues, and Ms L wouldnt have needed
to spend time and energy chasing matters up. Its also likely the repairs would have been
completed closer to the original time frame of four weeks, as opposed to six months  and
Ms L would have had her home back at an earlier date.
This, coupled with Ms Ls personal circumstances, means the stress she experienced
whilst dealing with the claim was felt more greatly by her. And whilst I recognise UKI did
arrange alternative accommodation for her - which alleviated some of the immediate and
physical impact of the claim - Ms L still felt compelled to visit her property - which she was
entitled to do - because of concerns regarding the quality of the repairs and how her homewas being treated. And, so, Im not persuaded the compensation offered by UKI is fair.
Instead, I consider compensation totalling £750 to be fair in the circumstances of this
complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is I uphold this complaint and intend to direct UKI to:
Pay Ms L £750 compensation in total. If its already paid £200, it can deduct this
amount from the payment it makes.
Ms L sent a lengthy response to my provisional decision explaining why she disagreed with 
parts of it. In summary she: 
Said shed called a halt to UKIs agent decorating her property at the end of March 
2022, and subsequently sold her property. 
Explained why she considered the communication to have been poor with reference 
to specific examples. She added she arranged the alternative accommodation  not 
UKI.
Felt the use of the phrase snagging issues underplayed the issues she had 
regarding the quality of the repair. She explained delays were also caused because 
of contractors not showing up as scheduled. 
Said UKI should have carried out a survey of all the drains and pipes when the 
original claim was made. And that had it done so, issues within the length of the pipe 
 not just the blockage identified in the current claim - would have been identified and 
rectified at an earlier date. She added that as there were displaced joints in her 
neighbours drain, it would have been reasonable for UKI to assume there would 
have been similar problems in those parts which hadnt been surveyed.
Disagreed the problem drain was at the rear of her property in 2013  saying it was 
instead approximately 6 meters from her neighbours manhole at the front of the 
property and so, couldnt have accounted for the crack damage at the rear of the 
property. 
UKIs agents had failed to keep it informed of her concerns with the handling of her 
claim. 
Provided evidence of enquiries with estate agents which she says supports her 
position that she would have listed her house for sale if the works had been 
completed at earlier date. 
UKI responded to my provisional findings and said:
The delays largely lie with Ms L and her decision to attend the property every day 
whilst it was being repaired. It said this was done without obtaining the contractors 
permission  which was needed to ensure the health and safety of those on site, 
including Ms L who had told them she had a serious health condition. 
The contractor cleaned the property on three occasions. But this was deemed 
unacceptable by Ms L and so, UKI agreed to pay a cleaning cost as a gesture of 
goodwill. The repairs did not take six months and instead, over ran by one week  which is 
recognised by the compensation it paid. The repairs were largely completed by the 
start of December 2021 with only minor snagging outstanding. The repair timescale 
was impacted due to Ms L attending the property every day, commenting on the 
contractors work, including that she didnt feel some were in the right frame of mind 
to work. 
Ms L says the furniture sustained damage but hasnt provided evidence of this. Ms L 
confirmed her satisfaction with the work prior to raising a complaint two months later. 
Finally, it remained satisfied the compensation it has paid is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Ms L I have reviewed all the information shes provided  including her 
detailed recent reply. My decision, however, wont mirror this style. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy but is rather to reflect the informal nature of this Service. Instead, Ive 
summarised the parties points and have addressed those I consider pertinent to the 
complaint.
Delays and Communication 
Ms L has asked that I not only consider the length of the delay but also the nature of what 
caused the delays  particularly in the first four weeks of the repair timeframe - together with 
the miscommunication she says took place during this time. I want to reassure Ms L that I 
have done this. When determining compensation, this Service doesnt award specific 
amounts of compensation for particular actions (or inactions). For example, there isnt a 
prescribed amount where a business fails to return a call or attend an appointment. Instead, 
Ive looked at the claim holistically  meaning Ive considered the overall handling of the 
claim, and the impact any shortcomings had on Ms L. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I agree there were avoidable delays. Whilst UKI 
contests there was a five-month delay  and that only snagging issues remained after 
December 2021, ultimately, the works werent completed within the agreed timescale, and 
so I consider it reasonable to increase compensation in respect of this. 
UKI has been keen to stress that Ms L shouldnt have attended the site whilst the repairs 
were going on  but it was her property. Whilst I accept her attendance wasnt necessarily 
conducive to the contractors carrying out the repairs, I dont think this means the issues Ms L 
highlighted during this shouldnt be taken into consideration. And Im satisfied Ive seen 
enough to show Ms L did have to spend time highlighting issues and added to what was 
already a stressful time for her.
Whilst Ms L has provided numerous examples of when she says communication fell short, I 
have to balance this with evidence from the business which indicates UKI (or rather its 
agents who act on its behalf) were in touch with Ms L frequently and did act upon her 
concerns when they were raised during the repair stage. Even if I accepted there were 
instances where UKIs communication could have been clearer, or it could have returned her 
calls in a timelier manner, I havent seen enough to persuade me that I need to increase the 
£750 total compensation. 
DrainsI appreciate Ms L disagrees with my finding on this issue, but even if I accepted her point 
that the problem drain wasnt in the vicinity of the cracking, Im not persuaded it would have 
been reasonable to expect UKI to carry out a full survey of all the surrounding pipes and 
drains when it  and other agencies  had identified what was reasonably considered to be 
the cause of the damage. 
Selling her home
Ms L has said that owing to the handling of the claims, she wasnt able to sell her property 
when shed initially intended to, and has therefore, missed out on lower interest rates. In my 
provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded UKI could reasonably be held accountable for 
this based on the available information. 
Ms L has provided new evidence which shows shed been in touch with an estate agent to 
arrange a valuation of her property in July 2021 - a few months prior to the works 
commencing. And that shed agreed to sell her property with a different estate agent in 
March 2022  around the time the works were signed off as complete. 
Whilst Im satisfied the new evidence shows Ms L had made enquiries about selling her 
home before the repair works began, Im not persuaded it shows UKIs handling of the claim 
prevented her from marketing her home. Whilst I appreciate Ms L might have preferred to 
market her home in a finished state  once the repairs had been completed  she could 
have nonetheless chosen to market it, with potential buyers being informed the repairs were 
being completed by the insurer  and this potentially being included as a condition of sale.
Furthermore, its likely Ms L would have been required to disclose in any pre-contract 
enquiries that the property had been affected by subsidence. And so, Im not persuaded the 
presence of contractors completing repairs to remedy what would be a known issue to a 
potential buyer, prevented the property from being marketed. It follows that I wont be 
directing UKI to redress this aspect of Ms Ls complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to: 
Pay Ms L £750 compensation in total. If its already paid £200, it can deduct this 
amount from the payment it makes.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman