DRN-1892607
The complaint
Mr A complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave him bad advice about 
making a payment.
What happened
Mr A wanted to pay a plumber a deposit of £500 towards some work hed agreed to do. On 
29 July 2019, he called NatWest twice for advice how to do this securely. On 30 July 2019 
he paid the plumber £500 through internet banking  faster payments. The work carried out 
was sub-standard.
In March 2020, Mr A complained that NatWest told him that if the service paid for wasnt up 
to standard, he could fill out a credit recovery form to recover the funds. He later told us that 
had he been told differently, he would have tried to use a credit card for the payment.
NatWest replied in March 2020. They said that where a payment had been made and the 
quality of the service paid for wasnt satisfactory, this amounted to a commercial dispute and 
they wouldnt refund the payment. They looked at what had happened when Mr A called 
NatWest - on the first call, they told Mr A that they may not be able to protect the payment if 
it was a transfer and could be a scam. They couldnt find the recording of the second call. 
But they believed what Mr A had said he was told - and paid him compensation of £200.
 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
NatWest had provided the recording of the second call. NatWest had said the only thing they 
could do would be to start a credit payment recovery  theyd contact the other bank to try to 
recover the money, but on a best endeavours basis. Mr A had said that he only had the 
plumbers sort code and account number  so he couldnt pay by credit card - so he would 
get any protection that way. Our investigator said Nat West had made it clear what they 
could do if something went wrong.
Mr A asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A is convinced that he was misled by NatWest. He was let down by the 
plumber who carried out the work and eventually had to pay for it to be put right.
I have listened to the calls Mr A made to NatWest. I have quoted a lot of the conversation so 
we can be clear on what was said.
The first call was at 17.14 on 29 July 2019. Mr A says hes about to pay a deposit for work to 
be done. He asked: how can I pay with protectionwhat can I do? He said he only had the 
sort code and account number. The call handler said: if you make payment and its a scam 
you cant get your money backits not guaranteed we can get that money back for you 
She went on to say that if theres a dispute, Mr A could contact the police  Mr A said they 
wouldnt help. The call disconnected.
The second call was at 17.18 on 29 July 2019. Mr A repeated that he wanted to pay a 
deposit of £500 towards the job costing £3000. He asked: if he doesnt turn up what 
protection do I have? I only have the sort code and account number. NatWest said: if he 
doesnt turn up, the only thing we can do is try to get money back (using) payment recovery 
process. Mr A asked: so I do have some protection? Nat West then said - twice - we do it 
on a best endeavours basis. Mr A then said: so its not 100% guaranteed youll get money 
back. I understand.
Mr A then asked about the security of payment several of times: is there any secure way of 
payingI have sort code and account numbera better way than best endeavours...is there 
any other way if I make this payment to him that Im covered in a better way than best 
endeavours? is there a better way I can make that payment (than faster payment) thats 
more secure?. Nat West replied  no, the only two ways are faster payment or pay by 
cash  Mr A then said: if I pay by credit card, which I cant in this situationso I have no 
protection  is there a safer way I can pay it that gives me more protection? Nat West: the 
only way we can do this is by faster payment or pay by chequetheyre the only options we 
do.
Mr A again asked: but how will that help protect meis there any more protection in paying 
by cheque or faster payments, is one better than the other?...so what is the best way I can 
get protection?...how can I get full protection? Mr A then said that payment by cheque wont 
provide security as the cheque would have cleared before the work started.
NatWest then said: we can start credit recovery. Mr A: so if I pay him to his bank account I 
can fill out a credit recovery form? NatWest then said yes, and thats our best 
endeavours
Having listened to the calls, I think that Mr A knew that there was a risk in paying the money 
by a transfer to the plumbers bank account  thats why he asked many times for more 
secure ways of doing it. Its also clear that NatWest told him that they could try to get the 
money back, but it was on a best endeavours basis. Mr A said - early in the second call 
that he understood that. And Mr A knew he couldnt use a credit card as he only had the 
plumbers sort code and account number.
So, I do not think that NatWest misinformed Mr A. They paid him compensation of £200 
because they couldnt find the second call when they sent their final response letter. But I 
wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman