DRN-4124279
The complaint
Mr A complains that insurance policies arranged by One Call Insurance Services Limited 
didnt provide the appropriate level of cover.
What happened
Mr A arranged insurance with One Call. Of relevance to this decision, two policies were 
issued, a home insurance policy and a legal expenses insurance policy.
Following an employment dispute, Mr A sought to claim on his legal expenses insurance 
policy. The claim was rejected because the policy didnt provide any cover for employment 
disputes.
Mr A complained to One Call. He referred to an Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) he was provided relating to the home insurance policy which referred to legal 
expenses cover, and included cover for employment disputes. He said on that basis hed 
believed he had this cover and hadnt received anything from One Call which suggested 
otherwise.
When One Call rejected his complaint, he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought One Call hadnt done anything wrong. Mr A didnt agree and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that when Mr A took out these two policies, it was a non-advised 
sale, meaning that One Call didnt make any recommendation about the suitability of the 
policies or the levels of cover provided by them. 
Mr As complaint here isnt that his claim on the legal expenses insurance policy should have 
been covered  its that he believed he had additional legal expenses cover as part of the 
home insurance policy.
Mr A refers in particular to the IPID for the home insurance policy. This document details that 
employment disputes are covered as part of the Optional Family Legal Protection. In my 
opinion, the key word here is optional which clearly indicates that this protection is not 
automatically included as part of the policy, but is an optional add-on with some action 
required to include it as part of the policy, likely for an additional premium. Im not satisfied 
this document confirms that the home insurance policy included the relevant legal expenses 
protection. Its a standard document detailing the cover generally provided and available to 
potential customers, not unique to Mr As policy and the specific cover he was provided with.
The schedule for the home insurance policy confirms that the family legal protection isnt 
included in the cover. Im aware Mr A says he didnt receive this from One Call, but theres 
also no suggestion that he contacted One Call to request a copy of this document, which 
details the cover limits, period of cover and other important information. In any case, as Ive 
outlined above, Im not satisfied the IPID confirms that the optional family legal protection is 
included on Mr As policy.
Weve also been provided with a record of the cover requested by Mr A when he took out the 
policies with One Call. In the section for add-ons, an amount of £0 is given for the Home 
legal cover, which would appear to be linked to the Optional Family Legal Protection 
mentioned in the IPID and other policy documents. On that basis, I think its safe to conclude 
that Mr A didnt request the optional family legal protection be included as part of his home 
insurance policy.
I also note that Mr A held the legal expenses insurance policy (which didnt include the 
employment disputes cover) in addition to the home insurance policy. That policy was 
arranged by One Call at the same time, to cover the same period. I think its fair to say that if 
Mr A believed the optional family legal protection cover had been included with the home 
insurance policy, then he wouldnt have had any need for the separate policy. I believe on 
that basis its reasonable to conclude that Mr A hadnt requested the family legal protection 
be included as an add-on to the home insurance policy.
I conclude that none of the information available to me leads me to be able to say that Mr A 
was misled or otherwise misinformed about the level of legal expenses insurance cover 
provided by his policies. I also cant say that the levels of cover didnt meet what hed 
requested when the policies were taken out.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman