DRN-3376935
The complaint
Mr O complains about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his car insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr Os car was damaged by a third party. He made a claim to esure and was provided with a 
hire car.
esure decided Mr Os car was a write-off and confirmed a settlement payment. Mr O thought
the valuation of his car was too low. He says his car is of a higher specification than the
comparisons esure has used. He also says he wasnt contacted to ask if he wanted to
salvage the car. Mr O says esure applied a reduction to its valuation based on the car having
been written-off previously. He says his car was a category N write-off, but esure based its
reduction on it being a category S.
Mr O says he has been charged for use of the hire car when this should be covered by his
policy. He says neither esure nor the hire car company told him the hire period ended after
21 days. He returned the car within 48 hours of being told to do so. And says esure told him
it would pay the charges for the car hire.
esure says it offered the market value for Mr Os car. It says as it was previously written-off it
applied a 20% reduction. It apologised for not giving Mr O the option to retain salvage. And
explained there would be a 35% reduction in the settlement payment if Mr O wanted to retain
the car. esure says car hire was for a maximum of 21 days. When this ended it says Mr O
told the car hire company there was an agreement to keep the car for a further period. esure
says it didnt agree to this, so Mr O is liable for the additional hire charges.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He
thought esure had valued the car fairly and offered a fair salvage fee when requested to do
so. He didnt think the evidence showed Mr O was told he could continue using the hire car
beyond the 21 days allowed by his policy. And he didnt think there was reason for esure to
pay compensation.
Mr O disagreed with this outcome. He supplied further information for our investigator to
consider, but this didnt alter his view. Because of this Mr O asked for an ombudsman to
review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Os complaint in part. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Let me explain.
Valuation
Mr O thinks esure undervalued his car because it based its valuation on a lower specification
model.
I have thought about whether the evidence provided supports this point.
esure supplied a report that shows the make, model, and other details of Mr Os car. This
information corresponds to the vehicle identification number (VIN) and registration. I
acknowledge Mr Os comments, and the photos that illustrate some higher specification trim.
esure says some higher specification extras were added to the car, but the model was
correctly identified.
Based on the evidence I have seen the car does have some of the higher specification
features Mr O has highlighted, which can be added as extras. But he hasnt shown that the
model identified by esure is incorrect or that its valuation is flawed. So, although Mr Os car
does have some of the higher specification trim, I dont think this makes a significant
difference to the valuation, which was based on a range of values taken from the industry
trade guides.
We use the same guides to identify whether an insurer has been fair when calculating the
value of a car. The guides we checked gave a very similar average valuation to that
confirmed by esure. Because of this I dont think the valuation esure arrived at was
unreasonable.
I have also thought about whether esure was unfair in the discount it applied for Mr Os car
having been previously written-off.
We asked esure for more information on this point. Specifically, around Mr Os comments
that his car was a category N not a category S write-off. Cat N means the car isnt
structurally damaged. Cat S means there is structural damage. In both categories the
damage is repairable, but the insurer responsible has chosen not to carry out a repair.
esure says its policy is to apply a 20% reduction to the valuation when a car has previously
been written-off. This is irrespective of the category it was given. Its reasonable to expect
the market value of a car, if its been declared a write-off, to be negatively impacted. This will
put buyers off and we think its reasonable for an insurer to make this deduction when
valuing a car. Because of this I dont think esure behaved unfairly here.
Salvage
Mr O says esure didnt contact him to see if he wanted to retain the car. He says he had to
make contact himself to discuss this.
esure has apologised that it didnt give Mr O the option of salvaging his car. It says it doesnt
recommend this course of action, which is why it didnt contact him about it. esure confirmed
it would deduct 35% off its valuation if Mr O chose to salvage it himself.
We asked esure to provide information to support the salvage value it would receive. It says
its policy is to deduct 35% as standard, but it also supplied a quote from its salvage provider.
Although calculated sometime after it declared the car a write-off, this quote does come out
higher than the 35% esure deducted. So, I cant say esure acted unreasonably here.I note Mr Os comments that he was primarily concerned about the lack of proactive contact
regarding the salvage issue. I have thought about this point. But I dont think this is
something an insurer is reasonably expected to consider unless a customer asks about it
directly. So, I dont think esure behaved unreasonably in this respect.
Hire car
Mr Os policy terms say:
A courtesy car is not available if your car has been stolen and not found, or considered to
be a total loss. If we decide that your car is a total loss after providing the courtesy car, it will
be withdrawn.
esure refers to its Optional Extras booklet, which sets out more details of the terms and
conditions relating to the car hire benefit Mr O chose as part of his policy. This says:
If you make a claim under Section 2 or Section 3 of your policy and we decide that your car
is a total loss or it has been stolen and not recovered, we will provide a hired car by the end
of the next working day, for a period of up to 21 days. If you request it, the hire period is
extendable on specially negotiated 24hr discounted rates and at your expense. You have 14
days to take up the offer of the hired car following our decision that your car is a total loss.
And:
Conditions which apply to car hire benefit
You must keep to these terms; if you do not, in some circumstances your cover under this
section may be invalid or cancelled, a claim may be refused or a payment could be reduced.
If you are unsure about any of these terms please contact esure:
You must return the hired car to the car hire company no later than 48 hours after the
settlement payment is issued to you, or no later than on the 21st day of hire (whichever
comes first unless previously agreed).
Mr O didnt return his car until nine days after the maximum 21-day hire period had elapsed.
He was charged for the extra nine days.
Mr O says he asked the car hire company when the car should be returned. He says he was
told esure would be in touch regarding the return date. He says he received a call from the
car hire company seven days after the 21-day hire period had elapsed. But no contact from
esure before this. Mr O says the hire car company didnt know about the hire only lasting for
21-days. And he says he returned the car within 48 hours when told to do so.
We asked esure for its records and call recordings, and that of its car hire company, to 
understand what communication took place.
esure says the car hire company doesnt record calls. But it has provided a log note taken on
the day prior to the 21-day hire period ending. The note is very limited in detail. esure says
this shows a call was made at 8.08am on this day. It says this call was made by a branch
manager and was in relation to the hire period ending. It says the return time is detailed on
this note that shows this was set for 2.30pm. However, the record provided doesnt clearly
show that the call connected, and it doesnt provide any detail of what was discussed if it did
connect.esure says Mr O told the car hire company an extension had been agreed with it when it
hadnt. However, the records provided dont confirm this. Mr O says there was no contact
until seven days after the 21-day hire period had elapsed.
I have looked at the records when the hire car was arranged in January 2021. This does
confirm the 21-day hire period, but it doesnt clearly show this was communicated to Mr O.
esure sent an Off-hire notice to the car hire company seven days after the 21-day hire
period elapsed. I understand esure sends this to notify when a hire period is at an end. esure
says it shouldnt have sent this notice in Mr Os case as it wasnt needed. It says the car hire
cover is finite with a maximum 21-days of cover. It points to the system records provided by
the car hire company that dont include reference to the off-hire notice. It says this supports
its position that a finite 21-day limit was in place for the car hire.
When Mr O returned the car, he called esure and passed his mobile phone over to a
representative at the car hire office. The representative then spoke to esure and was
subsequently passed through to its claims team. There was some confusion at this time, as
the call was transferred internally without an explanation of the situation or that Mr O had
passed his mobile phone onto the car hire company representative. I have listended to the
recordings provided from this call. But I dont think what was discussed has an impact here.
In considering all of this, I dont think esure has shown that Mr O was provided with clear
information when his courtesy car should be returned. The car hire company was acting on
behalf of esure and wed expect it to provide clear instructions.
Mr O says he was told esure would contact him. He then returned the car as instructed
within 48 hours of being told to do so. This was after esure had provided the off-hire notice to
the car hire company. esure says this notice wasnt necessary. Yet it still sent it, and this is
what instigated the contact with Mr O to return the car.
Im not persuaded from the information and accounts provided that an earlier contact took
place to inform Mr O to return the car. I acknowledge the policy terms confirm a 21-day
maximum hire period. But its also reasonable for Mr O to rely on the information given to
him orally by the car hire company. I have no reason to doubt his recollection of what was
discussed. His actions, when he was told to return the car, support his understanding of
what was said.
In the circumstances described I think Mr Os actions were reasonable. He understood hed
be contacted to confirm when to return the car. He took it back when contact was made. Im
not persuaded that the car hire companys first call connected. But if it was the case that the
hire car was overdue, its reasonable to expect this to be followed up, sooner than it was. As
above this didnt happen until the car hire company received the off-hire notice from esure.
In summary I dont think esure treated Mr O fairly when communicating the return date for
the courtesy car. Because of this I think its reasonable that it refunds the cost of the
additional nine days hire. But I do think esure behaved fairly when dealing with the valuation
and salvage aspect of Mr Os claim, so I wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to
these points.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and esure Insurance Limited should:
refund the additional car hire charges paid by Mr O.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.esure responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr O responded to say that he didnt think esure had been fair when valuing his car. He has 
provided a screen shot of a valuation from one of the industry guides to support his 
argument. Mr O has also provided an online valuation from a car buying company, which he 
says supports his view that esure undervalued his car.
Mr O says the trade guides esure used didnt take into consideration the mileage of his car 
or the specification. He says they only give a rough estimate based on average mileage. He 
says diesel cars cover more miles annually than petrol cars. He says diesels do a lot of 
motorway miles and average between 15,000 and 20,000 miles per year. He thinks this 
means his car has been undervalued, as although his car is a diesel it had only done 70,000 
miles from when it was registered in 2013. Mr O says esures valuation is based on a car 
that had done between 100,000 and 110,000 miles. He says this shows the valuation was 
too low and wants this to be reconsidered. 
Mr O also complains about delays, mistakes and withheld information when he asked for 
information relating to the hire car issue. He says he had to request call recordings several 
times, parts of calls were edited, and he doesnt believe it was necessary to split a call 
between separate files due to its size.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the valuation information Mr O provided. This shows the same model of 
car that esure had used in its valuation. The information esure provided shows it also used 
the actual mileage of Mr Os car from the time of the accident, which was 70,000 miles. 
The valuations we obtained were also based on the same model of car with 70,000 miles on 
the clock. In my provisional decision I said the range of values we obtained gave a very 
similar average valuation to esures. I acknowledged Mr O had some higher specification 
features, which are extras that can be added to the car. But I didnt think this made a 
significant difference to the valuation. The valuation of Mr Os car was taken from a range of 
values using the industry trade guides. I think this way of arriving at a valuation was fair 
based on the correct model and mileage. I acknowledge the information Mr O has supplied 
but Im satisfied the valuations already considered show a fair approach was taken to valuing 
his car.  
The valuation Mr O provided from a car buying website, is lower than esures valuation. I 
acknowledge his point that the price offered by this company will likely have been higher it 
taken at the time of the accident. Even so, my understanding is that any offer made by this 
company is dependent on an inspection of the car. This may result in the valuation offer 
being changed. So, its not clear from this what the final offer would be from this company.  
We dont think its unreasonable for esure to rely on the industry trade guides when 
establishing the market value of a vehicle. So, I dont think the information Mr O supplied 
from the car buying company shows esure acted unfairly. 
I acknowledge Mr Os concerns with regards to information he requested from esure. Im 
sorry he was frustrated by this and I note his view that esure dealt with him in an 
unprofessional manner. Based on the information I have seen esure did make efforts to 
provide the information Mr O requested. It engaged with him to understand what information 
he felt was outstanding and gave explanations where information couldnt be provided. In my provisional decision I didnt think there was sufficient evidence from the call recordings 
or account records to show Mr O was treated fairly with respect to the additional hire car 
charges he was asked to pay. So, I said, it was fair for esure to refund these charges. 
Although I accept Mr O has strong views around this point, Im not persuaded that I should 
change my decision. Mr O can of course refer any concerns about his information requests 
to the Information Commissioners Office, if he thinks this is appropriate. But I havent seen 
reason to alter or add to my decision based on his further comments.
Finally, Mr O says as he didnt cash the cheque esure sent him for £100. Because of the 
time elapsed the cheque has now expired. Mr O can contact esure directly to arrange for 
payment to be provided in this respect.  
In summary I dont think esure treated Mr O fairly when charging additional car hire fees. So, 
its fair that it refunds the payment he provided. I think it was fair when dealing with the 
valuation, salvage, and information aspects of Mr Os claim, so Im not asking it to do 
anything more in relation to these points.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
esure Insurance Limited should:  
refund the additional car hire charges paid by Mr O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman