DRN-4470669
The complaint
Miss R has complained J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, wont refund money 
she lost after being the victim of a scam.
What happened
In April 2023 Miss R, whilst on holiday, received a call from someone stating they were from 
her bank, Chase. They were supposedly concerned about fraudulent transactions and 
needed her to set up another account to keep her money safe.
Miss R was immediately reassured that the call came from her actual bank as the person 
she was talking too knew a lot about the state of her finances and also knew what phone she 
used for her banking.
Miss R followed the instructions she was given which resulted in her transferring £25,000 
form her Chase savings account to her current account. She then transferred £20,000 to a 
new account supposedly in her name held with another bank (who Ill call M). She also 
transferred £5,000 to her partner who also held an account with Chase. This enabled him to 
transfer his money to another safe account supposedly in his name.
Chase blocked the payment for £25,000 and asked Miss R to call them. She did this and 
answered their questions in accordance with a script shed been given by the fraudster. The 
fraudster was also listening in. She found this reassuring.
After the transfer was made and Miss R had confirmed this, the fraudster got off the phone 
call. Miss R called Chase practically immediately and they started a process to try and get 
her money back from M. On 15 May they were able to pay back £13,704.61. However as 
they believed Miss R had ignored warnings about potential scams, they wouldnt refund her 
any further.
Miss R brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Chase had provided warnings to Miss R but could appreciate why the 
fraudsters story seemed more credible and shed not acted on these. She asked Chase to 
reimburse the remaining amount Miss R had lost, along with 8% simple interest.
Chase disagreed with this outcome. They felt they could have done little more to stop Miss R 
sending money to a supposedly safe account. Theyve asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Miss R made and authorised the payments (to both the safe account 
and her partner). Miss R knew the reasons why she was being asked to make the transfers. 
At the stage she was doing this, she believed she was taking urgent action to keep her own 
money safe and would be able to access the account with M once this had been done.
I dont dispute Miss R was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Chase has an obligation to follow Miss Rs instructions. So in the first 
instance Miss R is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Chase 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Miss R fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. In her case, she was targeted by a fraudster who 
knew enough about her to tailor their approach to her and make it believable. This is 
particularly true when Miss R called Chase and ignored their warnings. The fraudster 
seemed more credible as theyd targeted their script to Miss Rs specific situation.
It's difficult to overestimate the stress that can be caused by these types of calls, and the 
panic theyre meant to engender in the people who receive them. Particularly when I take 
into account Miss Rs personal circumstances at this time. Shed suffered a recent family 
bereavement and was away on holiday.
The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how Miss R should make the payments and 
direct her which convinced her she was speaking to someone from her genuine bank and 
she should trust this person who said they were from Chase. 
I also note that her partner also spoke to the fraudster and was similarly convinced. I believe 
Chase may have already refunded Miss Rs partner.
Its clear Chase has mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, because this was 
triggered by Miss R trying to transfer £20,000 to a new account. And at the time she left 
some funds in her current account so I can also see why this might not have looked 
completely like a safe account scam to Chase.
However Chase went to the effort of making sure she called them to release the payment 
but during the call, as far as I can tell, they went no further than asking her if shed been 
asked to transfer money to a safe account. Banks will be aware that fraudsters are very 
aware that this call could take place and do what they can to ensure the victim acts calmly and bats away such questions.
Despite a safe account being mentioned, by this time Miss R was convinced she was talking 
to her genuine bank so didnt see anything wrong in doing what she did. 
For these reasons I believe Chase should have undertaken additional steps to intervene and 
press Miss R further. I appreciate they feel that it isnt their strategy to tackle customers once 
a customer has confirmed theyve opened a new account and may be using this as their new 
account, but this seems to me to so closely resemble a safe account scam and Chase 
should have been able to spot this.
The fraudster was aware what was going on during the call, and if they felt Miss R was being 
effectively challenged, I believe they would have come off of the phone immediately.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
Im also aware in Chases case what their terms and conditions state about customers being 
at fault when theyre tricked but I can confirm I dont believe this was the case here.
Putting things right
As I believe any further intervention Chase should have made would have changed what 
happened here, I am going to ask them to refund £6,295.39 to Miss R. They will also need to 
add 8% simple interest to that amount.
This has had a massive impact on Miss R, shattering her confidence. Im really sorry that 
this is so. I dont believe it would be fair to ask Chase to provide additional compensation, 
although I have considered this aspect carefully.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as 
Chase, to:
Refund £6,295.39 to Miss R;
Add 8% simple interest from 5 April 2023 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman