DRN-4209700
The complaint
Ms G complains that when she redeemed her mortgage with Nationwide Building Society, it 
failed to pay the refund she was due, and it also provided her with a final statement which 
was inaccurate. Ms G says this has undermined her faith in Nationwide.
What happened
Ms G said she contacted Nationwide because shed decided to pay off her mortgage. So she 
asked for a redemption figure. Nationwide provided a figure for redemption on 30 January 
2023. Ms G paid that amount, but she paid a few days early, so she expected that shed get 
a refund. Ms G said Nationwide told her this would all be done automatically, but it wasnt. 
Ms G said when the refund didnt arrive, she rang again and asked for a mortgage 
statement. The statement set out a nil balance, and didnt reflect the refund she knew was 
due, so Ms G said that was worrying. She asked for a report showing how interest was 
calculated throughout the duration of her mortgage, but said she still hadnt received that. 
Ms G said shed got Nationwides complaint response, but she thought what Nationwide said 
about why it hadnt picked up the refund due was just an excuse. She felt it hadnt provided 
an explanation. 
Nationwide said that it was sorry it hadnt provided the service Ms G expected. It confirmed 
that Ms G had paid off her mortgage a few days before the date it expected, so the 
redemption figure included some extra interest that Ms G didnt owe. Nationwide said it had 
suggested Ms G call back if she was going to pay earlier, to get a revised figure. 
Nationwide said it owed Ms G £3.12 after her redemption was processed, but that wasnt 
reflected on the closure statement it sent her, as the statement assumed closure on the date 
shed requested. It had now paid this refund to her. It felt that her complaint, about delays in 
arranging her refund and about the closure statement, was justified, and it paid her £75 to 
apologise for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could understand 
why Ms G was concerned, both that she didnt get the refund automatically, and that 
Nationwide sent her a statement which included a mistake. But he said Nationwide had 
explained what had gone wrong. It had given her a redemption figure for 30 January, and 
shed paid four days earlier. So there was a slight overpayment. Nationwides systems dont 
pick up an overpayment of less than £10 automatically, so the money wasnt refunded right 
away. And the closing statement was calculated including the extra four days of interest, so 
it was wrong too. 
Our investigator noted that Ms G said she now didnt know if this refund, or even the rest of 
the interest charged on her mortgage, were right. He said he did think Nationwide had 
calculated Ms Gs refund correctly. And he said our service doesnt audit mortgages, so we 
cant review that for Ms G.
Our investigator explained that we cant make Nationwide change how it works out all the 
mortgage redemptions it receives, we can only look at what happened in Ms Gs case. And 
here, he thought Nationwides payment of £75 did provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. 
Ms G didnt agree. She said this was about the principle, she thought Nationwide had sent 
her a fraudulent statement. She wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Ms G was concerned not to just receive the refund she was due when she 
paid off her mortgage, without having to repeatedly chase that. I can see that Nationwide 
accepts it made mistakes here, both because it didnt provide Ms G with a refund right away, 
and because the closing statement it provided doesnt reflect the refund which was due. I 
think Nationwide has explained why this wasnt processed accurately in the first place. 
I think it was also unhelpful here that Nationwide gave Ms G reassurances that her refund 
would be done in due course, when it appears as if a refund of this size wouldnt be 
processed automatically.
I realise Nationwides earlier mistakes have led Ms G to question what Nationwide says now. 
But like our investigator, I do think its likely the refund paid to Ms G is right, as that fits with 
the daily interest calculation I can see Nationwide used to work out her redemption figure. 
Nationwide has explained what went wrong, it has apologised to Ms G, and its paid her £75 
to say sorry. Like our investigator, I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
I realise that Ms G feels her faith in Nationwide has been shaken, and shes now concerned 
that her mortgage may have been incorrectly administered before this. But unfortunately, as 
our investigator explained, our service isnt able to look back over the whole history of Mr Gs 
mortgage, and audit that mortgage for her. Im afraid that isnt in keeping with our role here, 
which is to provide an informal dispute resolution service. Im sorry were not able to help 
Ms G with that. 
Ive looked at what happened when Ms Gs mortgage was redeemed. I do think Nationwide 
made mistakes, as Ms G said. But I also think it has taken steps which provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to her complaint. For that reason, I dont think Nationwide has to do any 
more now. So, although I know Ms G will be disappointed, I dont think her complaint should 
be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman