DRN-2553065
The complaint
Mr L complains about the delays caused by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) when he 
tried to set up his annuities. He says he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
 Mr L had three pension funds with ReAssure. Two of these funds had guaranteed minimum 
pensions (GMPs). Mr Ls guaranteed minimum pension on Fund 1 was £357.68 per month 
and on Fund 2 was £104 per month. The third fund was a residual fund, which consisted of 
what was left over once his GMPs were met. 
On the 10 August 2018, Mr Ls Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) called ReAssure 
and asked for details of Mr Ls pension. The IFA wanted a full GMP breakdown, details 
of the death benefits and details of what Tax-Free Cash (TFC) Mr L could take. 
ReAssure sent this information to the IFA on the 7 September 2018 and confirmed the 
transfer value was £130,756.30. But they also explained the amount required to secure 
the GMP was £142,251.52. And as the cost of the GMP wasnt covered, the policy 
couldnt be transferred and there was no entitlement to a TFC lump sum. 
On the 2 October 2018, Mr Ls IFA requested a retirement options pack from ReAssure. This 
was sent to Mr Ls IFA on the 10 October 2018. On the 17 October 2018, Mr L called 
ReAssure to set up the annuities. Mr L said he was later contacted by ReAssure to say there 
had been a mistake. 
He says he was next contacted by Liverpool Insurance (LV=) saying it could offer 
better annuities. He says he signed LV=s paperwork to progress matters. It seems 
ReAssure was no longer dealing with pensions administration and had an arrangement 
with LV= for it to search the market and find annuities for ReAssure customers. LV= 
informed Mr L they could get him better annuities through another provider (Provider A) 
using the Open Market Option (OMO). 
Mr L has also brought a complaint to us regarding LV=s involvement in setting up his 
annuities.
LV= carried out an open market search on 10 January 2019. Having conducted the 
searches, it told Mr L that Provider A could provide him with higher annuities if he transferred 
the balance of his funds across to Provider A. The amount required to meet the guaranteed 
annuity amounts were £77,733.48 and £32,400.97 respectively. Mr L was erroneously told 
by LV= that he could take £30,000 tax free cash (TFC). Mr L said he was told, at that time, 
his residual fund had a value £20,760.75, which LV= told him he could purchase an annuity 
with of £94.74 per month, on top of his GMPs. 
 On 17 January 2019, Mr L called ReAssure because he had received quotes from LV=, 
but he didnt think they were correct. It turns out the quotes were incorrect and ReAssure 
confirmed theyd be sending uplifted figures to LV= so they could continue the annuity 
process. LV= had also included incorrect information about Mr Ls marital status and 
postcode when obtaining the open market annuity quotations.
On the 20 January 2019, Provider A wrote to ReAssure and explained Mr L had sent an 
application to them to purchase an annuity. Provider A asked ReAssure to send the fund 
balance to them and complete the relevant forms theyd enclosed. They also warned 
that if ReAssure didnt complete their Supplementary Application form, it would delay 
them being able to set up Mr Ls annuity. 
On 29 January 2019, new quotations were obtained from Provider A using Mr Ls correct 
postcode and marital status.
The next day, Mr Ls IFA called and explained that Mr L was unhappy at the lack of 
progress in getting the annuity set up. The IFA also explained how shed been expecting 
a call back that hadnt happened.  The IFA asked for a complaint to be raised if a call 
back was not received that day.
On the 5 February 2019, Provider A wrote to ReAssure again, asking them to send the 
fund balance, and to complete their forms and the Supplementary Application. 
ReAssure received a call from Mr Ls IFA on the 19 February 2019. The IFA said LV= 
had written to Mr L and said there was no TFC available, but the forms sent to the policy 
holder said he was entitled to TFC. The next day ReAssure confirmed in writing that Mr 
L wasnt entitled to TFC due to the cost of the GMP not being met. 
In early March 2019, the IFA called ReAssure to confirm they had received the OMO 
forms and said Provider A had confirmed that they had also received the forms. 
ReAssure wrote to Provider A on the 27 March 2019 and confirmed theyd sent the 
funds across to purchase the annuity. However, there were delays in sending the 
Supplementary Application across to Provider A. LV= chased this and was told by 
ReAssure they did not complete Supplementary Applications. However, later, 
ReAssure agreed to complete this form. The Supplementary Application was sent to 
Provider A on the 17 April 2019. But in the meantime, Mr L had called ReAssure three 
times chasing the transfer of funds. 
On the 23 April 2019, Provider A called because the form hadnt been fully completed by 
ReAssure. Provider A also said the money had been sent across crystallised, but they 
needed it uncrystallised. Additionally, Provider A said, ReAssure had left the Life Time 
Allowance (LTA) percentage section blank on the form. The next day, ReAssure 
responded to Provider A and confirmed the funds were uncrystallised, and said what 
percentage this was of Mr Ls LTA. 
On the 8 April 2020, ReAssure received a complaint about the annuity delays. They 
issued their final response on the 17 April 2020. Within it, ReAssure said the reason for 
the delays was due to them referring to specialist departments to deal with certain 
queries. They also said Mr L hadnt suffered any financial loss, because they backdated 
the annuity to the 17 October 2018, which is the date Mr L called to take out the 
annuities. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint and concluded that Mr Ls complaint 
against ReAssure should be upheld.  She said that even though this was a GMP, and 
various departments may have needed to look into matters, six months was a long time 
to wait for this to go through. And from looking at the timeline of events, it was clear to 
her there were delays caused by ReAssure. Further Mr L was incorrectly told he was entitled to take TFC, when he wasnt. Mr L received incorrect quotes from ReAssure, 
which he needed to chase up. Call backs were promised but not received. Provider A 
had to write to ReAssure twice to get the necessary forms completed, and when 
ReAssure did complete and return them, this wasnt done correctly.
Our investigator concluded that this caused Mr L considerable trouble and upset. She 
noted that ReAssure backdated Mr Ls annuity to the date he first contacted them about 
purchasing annuities. But, she took the view, that Mr L had still lost out financially, as the 
residual fund used to purchase the annuity in 2019, was less than it wouldve been in 
2018, if his annuity had been purchased at that time. Because of that Mr L was receiving 
less income each month from the residual fund, than if the annuity had been purchased 
in 2018. 
To put things right our investigator said ReAssure should:
A. Calculate what Mr Ls annuity would have been had the correct quotes been sent 
to Mr L when he requested them on the 17 October 2018 (assuming the annuity 
was set up on the same basis as Mr Ls current annuity).
B. Work out Mr Ls past losses the difference between the net annuity payments 
Mr L did receive and what he should have received since the annuity was set up, 
to date. Add 8% simple interest per annum to each monthly payment from the 
date it was due to the date of this assessment.
C. Work out future losses- calculate the cost of setting up an annuity (on the same 
basis of Mr Ls current annuity) for the difference in annuity which hes lost out 
on. The purchase price of the annuity being Mr Ls gross future loss. This should 
be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid presumed to be 20%. 
D. To acknowledge the trouble and upset caused to Mr L, by the delays ReAssure 
caused and the incorrect information it provided, she said ReAssure should also 
pay Mr L £200.
ReAssure didnt accept our investigators view. It said the errors were not caused by 
ReAssure and LV= had already confirmed it had provided incorrect information. It said 
this may have impacted the start date of Mr Ls annuity, but ReAssure could not rectify 
this. It said ReAssure should not have to compensate Mr L for any loss.
Mr L accepted our investigators view and said how angry it had made him feel looking 
over the paperwork to see what he was originally told he would receive.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ls complaint against ReAssure, along with his 
complaint against LV=, which also wasnt agreed, have each separately come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered the time line of events here, I agree with our investigator that 
ReAssure did do something wrong. In summary:
it failed to send correct quotes to Mr L.
uplifted figures had to be sent to LV= to pass on to Mr L to calculate the correct 
amount of annuity payable.
it did not give Mr L clear information about his entitlement to take TFC.
the Supplementary Application, which Provider A required, before it could 
process Mr Ls annuity application, was not initially completed. ReAssure initially 
said it did not complete paperwork like this, but later it did so. When it did 
complete the form, it did not do so correctly, leading to further delays.
Im told that ReAssure has since arranged for all Mr Ls annuities (his two GMP ones and 
now his residual fund annuity) to be backdated to 17 October 2018, the date when he called 
ReAssure to set up his annuities. 
This service aims to put a consumer back into the same position they wouldve been in, 
had the error or omission not occurred. Had there not been any delays and 
shortcomings here, Mr Ls annuity payments wouldnt, in any event, have started until 
after he spoke with ReAssure on 17 October 2018. So, I think ReAssure have been fair 
in selecting this date for backdating purposes.
Mr L takes the view that he has lost out financially because he was told in January 2019, 
that his residual fund was worth £20,760.75, from which LV= told him he could purchase 
an annuity of £94.74 per month. But this was based on annuity payments starting in 
January 2019 and not in October 2018. Also, incorrect information was provided about 
him when this quotation was produced. Once the correct information was provided on 29 
January 2019, the monthly annuity payment decreased to £78.54 per month.
Because Mr Ls GMP related annuities started earlier, it follows that the cost of providing 
these ended up being more. And because the cost of funding the GMP annuities was 
more, it follows that the amount left in his residual fund was less.
Im told that ReAssure has now arranged for the residual fund to be backdated until 17 
October 2018 too. This has meant that Mr Ls residual fund annuity has reduced to 
£62.94 per month. 
Overall, I can see that at least some of the reduction in the amount of annuity Mr L 
receives from his residual fund is due to the fact that the payments commenced earlier, 
from 17 October 2018, and that wrong information was provided to obtain the quotation.
But, Im also told that Provider A had regular rate changes, that impacted on the cost of 
the annuities and therefore monthly annuity payments. I note that Mr Ls annuities were 
not set up until May 2019. I think, for the most part, that ReAssure is responsible for the 
delays between January 2019 and May 2019, I have found that LV= was responsible for 
10 days worth of delays during this period, but that I cannot see that this delay had a 
material bearing on the amount of the annuity payment Mr L receives. 
Ive not been provided with any information to show what the cost would have been of 
the guaranteed annuities if correct quotations had been issued on 17 October 2018 by 
Provider A, with a start date of 17 October 2018, using prevailing rates from that time. 
So, it follows that its also not clear how much wouldve been left in Mr Ls residual fund. In calculating fair compensation, given that ReAssure has accepted that Mr Ls annuities 
should be backdated until 17 October 2018, I think it reasonable that it takes 
responsibility for any financial loss Mr L has suffered due to different rate(s) being 
applied to those that wouldve applied on 17 October 2018.  
Further, Mr L says he ended up working for longer, because he didnt start receiving his 
annuity payments until eight months after he expected them to start. Even though Mr Ls 
annuities were backdated, his retirement planning was disrupted by ReAssures 
shortcomings. I therefore consider that it would be appropriate for ReAssure to pay him 
£200 for the trouble and upset caused and interest on the backdated payments.
Overall, I think it likely that the annuity Mr L now receives each month from his residual 
fund, is lower than it wouldve been had Mr Ls annuity applications been dealt with in a 
more timely and efficient way and fairly ReAssure should compensate him for this loss.
Putting things right
So, to put Mr L back into the position he wouldve been in, but for these shortcomings, 
ReAssure should:
A. Calculate what Mr Ls annuity would have been had correct quotations been 
issued on 17 October 2018 by Provider A, based on their rates applying at that 
time (assuming the annuity was set up on the same basis as Mr Ls current 
annuity);
B. Work out Mr Ls past losses the difference between the net annuity payments 
Mr L has received and what he would have received since the annuity was set 
up, to date if paid on the basis of A above. If Mr L has lost out, ReAssure should 
pay Mr L the difference. It should pay this directly to Mr L as a lump sum after 
making a notional reduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid presumed to be 20%. ReAssure should also pay simple interest at 
8% per annum on the difference between each monthly payment from the date it 
was due to the date it is paid.
C. Work out Mr Ls future losses- calculate the cost of setting up an annuity (on the 
same basis of Mr Ls current annuity) for the difference in annuity which hes lost 
out on. The purchase price of the annuity being Mr Ls gross future loss. This 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional reduction 
to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid presumed to be 
20%. 
D. To acknowledge the trouble and upset caused to Mr L, by the delays and 
incorrect information provided, ReAssure should also pay Mr L £200.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ReAssure to take off tax from this interest. 
ReAssure must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and order ReAssure Limited to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman