DRN-4245734
The complaint
B complains about delays and poor service when changing the primary account holder on its 
business account with Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus.
What happened
B is a limited company that was formed in 2021 with two directors. One of Bs directors 
applied to Cashplus for a business account. They were named as the primary account 
holder. In May 2021 the primary account holder contacted Cashplus to discuss 
arrangements for adding the Bs other director, Mr P, to the business account. They went on 
to raise a complaint. Cashplus reviewed Bs complaint and gave the primary account holder 
instructions on how to add another director to the account and the complaint was closed. No 
action to add a further director to Bs account was taken at that time. 
In February 2023 the primary account holder contacted Cashplus and explained he was 
planning to resign as director of B and asked how to add Mr P, the other director, to the 
account. Cashplus says it wrote to the resigning director at the beginning of March 2023 to 
advise it needed confirmation of the change on company headed paper along with 
documents to verify Mr Ps identity and address. Cashplus says that in the weeks that 
followed Mr P sent in various documents but some were unreadable due to the quality of the 
copies. Cashplus also says Mr P forwarded an incomplete drivers licence as the copy didnt 
show both sides and online utility bills it was unable to accept.
A short time later, the other director resigned from B and the remaining director, Mr P, has 
explained that the process of changing the primary account holder has been handled poorly 
by Cashplus. In particular, Mr P says that despite trying to make account amendments to 
reflect the changes in Bs structure, the process was unnecessarily difficult and time 
consuming. 
Cashplus says that after several attempts, Mr P provided the required documents on 17 May 
2023 and the amendments to the account were made on 22 May 2023. 
Mr Ps told us that on 30 May 2023 he sent an email to all Bs clients advising he was 
shutting the business due to being unable to access funds in its bank account. 
On Bs behalf, Mr P raised a complaint and Cashplus issued a final response on 6 June 
2023. Cashplus said the account had remained active and operational during the period 
Mr P was attempting to change the lead account holder. Cashplus also said it had requested 
information from Mr P to verify his identity and address but that the initial documents 
provided werent acceptable for various reasons. Cashplus accepted there was a delay of 
around eight working days between receiving the final documents and processing them to 
provide full account access and offered £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr P referred Bs complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Cashplus had reasonably asked Mr P to provide various documents to complete the 
transfer of key account holder. The investigator thought the decision to reject documents that 
were incomplete or unclear was reasonable and that the offer of £50 was fair. 
On Bs behalf, Mr P asked to appeal and said Cashplus shouldve contacted him when the 
previous director advised he was leaving the business. Mr P recently added that Cashplus 
had failed to complete the necessary due diligence checks when opening the business 
account as it didnt have his information. In addition, Mr P sent us details of the losses he 
says B has suffered and asked compensation for the inconvenience caused. As Mr P asked 
to appeal Bs complaint its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive listened to Mr Ps call with the investigator following their view of Bs complaint. And I 
understand that Mr P feels Cashplus has been negligent in terms of how its handled Bs 
account since the previous director notified it they were stepping down. But Cashplus has 
provided contact evidence that shows the previous primary account holder and director 
contacted it in the summer of 2021 to discuss arrangements for adding Mr P to the account. 
Cashplus notes show the original primary account holder raised a complaint and it gave 
instructions on how to add Mr P, but no follow up action was taken. In my view, this shows 
the directors of B were aware in 2021 that Mr P wasnt party to the business account. And 
Im satisfied instructions on how to add him were given at that time. Overall, Im satisfied that 
the directors of B were aware that Mr P wasnt party to the business account going back to 
2021 and had been given details of how to add him. It was then up to the directors to add Mr 
P as required. 
In response to the investigator, Mr P says Cashplus failed to complete reasonable due 
diligence when the account was opened. But theres no requirement for every director of a 
business to be party to a business account. And Im satisfied Cashplus willve completed the 
relevant check when opening Bs account and adding the original primary account holder. I 
havent seen any evidence that suggests Cashplus failed to complete necessary checks 
when opening Bs account in 2021. 
I can see that the previous director contacted Cashplus around two weeks before he 
resigned from B. Cashplus confirmed it would need a letter on company headed paper along 
with identity and address documents from Mr P before he could be added to the account. 
Whilst Cashplus received a letter from the resigning director, it didnt immediately receive 
usable documents from Mr P. 
I understand Mr P may feel he complied at an early stage. Ive looked at the documents 
provided and can see the quality of the copies was unclear in some cases. In addition, 
Cashplus needed readable copies of both the front and back of Mr Ps drivers licence as 
well as copies of address verification documents that were posted to him, not issued online. I 
can see it took some time for the documents to be provided in full. But Im satisfied Cashplus 
reasonably requested documents it needed to complete the switch of primary account 
holders. I havent seen anything that shows Cashplus unnecessarily requested documents 
from Mr P. Cashplus received Mr Ps final set of documents on 17 May 2023 and says there was a short 
delay before they were processed and the amendments made. I agree it wouldve been 
better if the documents were processed quicker. But I havent been persuaded that the time 
taken to process the documents and make account changes from this point was 
unreasonable overall. I appreciate Mr P feels the offer of £50 is too low. But I havent seen 
evidence that shows other unreasonable delays or poor service. In my view, the offer is fair. 
In response to the investigator, Mr P explained he felt Cashplus had been negligent when 
dealing with Bs account changes. I can understand why Mr P feels this way, but I havent 
seen obvious signs of mistakes or unreasonable delays. 
Mr Ps told us that on 30 May 2023 he took the step of emailing his clients to say B was 
being shut down as a result of being unable to access funds. Mr P doesnt appear to have 
sent us a copy of the email itself. And I note that B remains open and active on Companies 
House. I also think its fair to add that whilst Mr P didnt have access, the account itself 
remained open and operational for credits and automated payments. I note Mr Ps 
comments about the restrictions he felt were imposed by being unable to access funds. But I 
think that reflects the delay in Cashplus receiving documents it was able to use and situation 
whereby the previous director resigned before he could be applied to the bank account as 
the new primary account holder. 
Id like to assure Mr P Ive read and considered everything hes told us about the nature of 
losses he feels B suffered. But for the reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded to 
award compensation on that basis. 
I agree there were some service issues and delays but overall, Im satisfied Cashplus has 
explained why it took several weeks to amend Bs primary account holder. And Im satisfied 
that £50 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to B. As Im satisfied Cashplus complied 
with Mr Ps request to add him as Bs primary account holder once it had the necessary 
information on file, I havent been persuaded to increase the award further or tell Cashplus to 
take any further action. 
Ive read and considered everything provided by both B and Cashplus. Having done so, Im 
satisfied Cashplus has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman