DRN-3918537
The complaint
Ms S complains that a finance agreement with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway 
was mis-sold to her. 
What happened
In February 2020 Ms S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Moneyway.
The agreement was for 60 months repayable by 59 monthly instalments.
Ms S complained to Moneyway. She said she was advised by the dealership that the 
repayments would be around £382 per month but the payments requested were around 
£402 per month. 
In response, Moneyway said it wasnt upholding the complaint. Ms S remained unhappy and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the application had to be amended 
part way through the process to reflect the fact that Ms S was retired, and that following a 
reassessment the interest rate applicable to the agreement increased, resulting in a higher 
monthly repayment than originally discussed with Ms S. The investigator said she didnt think 
the agreement had been mis-sold because the agreement signed by Ms S reflected the 
instalment payment of £402 per month.
Ms S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided by Moneyway shows that when Ms Ss application for finance was 
first submitted by the dealership, Ms Ss employment status was shown as employed. 
Moneyway assessed the application and proposed an interest rate of 19.8% which resulted 
in a monthly payment of £382.32. However, during the underwriting process, Moneyway 
carried out further checks with the dealership regarding Ms Ss employment status and 
discovered that there had been an error because Ms S was retired not employed.  Because 
of the change in employment status, the interest rate applicable to the finance agreement 
was increased to 22.7% which meant that the monthly payments increased to £402.82.
Ive looked at the agreement which Ms S signed. It contains all the key features of the 
agreement, such as the amount borrowed, the interest rate, the term and the monthly 
repayment. The monthly repayment on the agreement signed by Ms S is stated as £402.82. 
Ms S, in signing the agreement, agreed to the terms and conditions, including the monthly 
repayment of £402.82.
Based on what Ive seen, Ms S was aware that the monthly repayment was £402.82.
I appreciate that Ms S doesnt think she agreed to a higher monthly payment. However, 
based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that all the key information ab out the finance 
agreement was provided to Ms S so that she could make an informed decision as to whether 
to proceed before signing the agreement.
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the agreement was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman