DRN-2118480
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card during March 1997.
He took out the PPI approximately six years later. The policy covered Mr D against accident, 
sickness and unemployment . 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. Mr D mainly said that he didnt know he had taken out PPI and that he 
wouldnt have asked to have it as he didnt need the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has supplied a copy of Mr Ds Barclaycard application which shows that Mr D took 
out this credit card without PPI. And Barclays told us that PPI wasnt something it offered at 
the time with this type of account. 
From what we know about these types of sales, where the PPI was sold after the credit card, 
its likely that it was sold over the phone. And this fits with what Barclays told us about the 
sale. It says that PPI wouldve been discussed with Mr D during a phone call on 
11 December 2003. 
Barclays cant provide a copy of the call recording from the time, so I cant say exactly what 
was discussed. But I think its likely that Barclays wouldve asked Mr D during that 
conversation if he wanted PPI  given that Mr D hadnt taken it out when he applied for his 
Barclaycard and it was now something Barclays offered to sell to its Barclaycard customers. 
Barclays shouldve made it clear that the PPI was optional. Although I dont know how 
Barclays presented the PPI to Mr D during the phone call, I think he wouldve understood 
that it was optional. I say this because Mr D had already been using his Barclaycard for a 
number of years without PPI so hed have been aware that it was up to him to say if he 
wanted to add it to his Barclaycard account.
And I think it likely that the PPI was probably added to his card when he chose to take it out 
during the phone call after Barclays explained the benefits it offered. 
I can completely understand why Mr D doesnt remember this so many years later. But Mr D 
wouldve been able to see the PPI when it appeared on his Barclaycard statements. So, if he 
hadnt asked for it, or he didn't want it, I think its likely that Mr D wouldve questioned 
Barclays about the PPI when it first appeared on his monthly statements. I've seen nothing 
to suggest that Mr D took this up with Barclays before he made this complaint. 
On balance, I think Mr D chose to have PPI, knowing it was optional.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr D. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that the PPI was suitable for Mr Ds circumstances. It also had to give clear enough 
information to Mr D so he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted it.
Thinking about everything, I think the policy was suitable for Mr Ds circumstances at the 
time. 
Mr D was eligible for the PPI.
He wasnt affected by any of the main things that mightve made it more difficult for him to 
make a successful claim, for example, unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing 
medical condition.
Mr D told us he wouldve received 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months' half pay. But 
the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So 
the PPI provided better protection than he couldve relied on getting through his employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr D with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr D lost his job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
Mr D mentioned he had no other way to pay his Barclaycard if he wasnt working. 
Taking into account everything Mr D has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think 
PPI offered him useful benefits.  
I dont know if Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr D made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month to month basis, Mr D chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for him 
when he took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed 
or he didnt want to keep paying for it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments, including what hes said about the way Barclays 
dealt with other claims hes made. But Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this 
particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr D wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman