DRN-3122051
The complaint
Mrs C complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt paid her the amount 
shes owed under the terms of her access agreement, after it completed repairs on her 
apartment block under her building warranty policy.
Mrs C is represented by her neighbour, Mr M.
What happened
NHBC agreed access agreements with the leaseholders in the block, to facilitate the works.
Mr M says he negotiated access agreement terms for his (and Mrs Ms) apartment, and for 
Mrs Cs apartment. However, he says the terms Mrs C received were different to what he 
agreed.
Both access agreements included a relocation/alternative accommodation payment. Mrs Cs 
payment covered seven months, which was the expected duration of the scaffolding. Whilst 
Mr and Mrs Ms payment covered eleven months, with their payment also covering the four 
months before the agreement, the different payment period start-dates arent in dispute. 
Both of the payment periods, for the two apartments, ended in September 2018. 
Mr M says the agreed monthly amounts were slightly different due to the two apartments 
being different sizes. Mrs Cs £9,100 payment works out to be £1,300 per month, when 
divided by her seven-month period. Mr and Mrs Ms £16,500 payment works out to be 
£1,500 per month, when divided by their eleven-month period.
Mr and Mrs Ms agreement also allowed for further payments on a pro-rata basis (£1,500 per 
month) if the work ran beyond September 2018. However, Mrs Cs agreement didnt include 
that further payment term. Mr M says the term was meant to be included in both 
agreements, with Mrs C receiving £1,300 per month if the works overran.
In December 2018, Mrs C contacted NHBC. She noted Mr M had received a further payment 
covering October to December 2018, and she requested a further payment for the same 
period based on her pro-rata amount. In January 2019, she noted the impact the living 
conditions were having on her, and she requested £10,000 as a final payment. NHBC 
declined her requests. 
In June 2019, Mrs C asked for a payment of £7,800, based on her pro-rata amount, because 
the scaffolding had been erected for a total of six months beyond 28 September 2018. 
NHBC again declined.
Mr M went on to represent Mrs C in her complaint. He noted the works werent completed at 
her apartment until May 2019 (eight months after 28 September 2018). So, he said she was 
owed a further £10,400 based on her pro-rata amount.
NHBC says its records dont reflect that Mrs C was to receive the same agreement terms as 
Mr and Mrs M. NHBC has also explained that its responsibility under the building warranty 
policy terms, was to pay the cost of putting right damage caused by the builders failure to 
construct the property in accordance with the relevant standards. NHBC noted the policy 
excludes loss of enjoyment, inconvenience, distress or any other consequential losses. 
NHBC also said the access agreement was clear the scope of works was subject to change 
once the building had been opened up; and this might mean additional time is required, and 
Mrs C would be unable to use her balcony for the duration of the works. 
NHBC noted the policy covers alternative accommodation costs if the occupier has to move 
out during works, and it highlighted that Mrs C had received £9,100 to cover seven months 
alternative accommodation. NHBC explained that if Mrs C provides evidence of additional 
costs for alternative accommodation, above the £9,100, it will consider them.
Mr M has made the point that the £9,100 payment was so Mrs C could escape the noise and 
inconvenience by days out and trips to see her daughter as she wishes. He notes that Mrs C 
was told she didnt need to keep receipts to evidence her claim. Mr M maintains that Mrs C 
was to receive a pro-rata payment if the works extended beyond 28 September 2018.
One of our investigators has considered Mrs Cs complaint, but he didnt think NHBC needed 
to pay her anything further. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive reviewed the emails that have been provided, from October 2017 to February 2018. The 
exchanges are between Mr M and NHBC (or its appointed third-party), leading up to the 
access terms being agreed.
In November 2017, Mr M said they (Mr and Mrs M) had arranged alternative accommodation 
to provide relief from the living conditions, and they intended to hold NHBC responsible for 
their costs and disruption. In January 2018, NHBC noted the majority of apartments had 
agreed their costs and expenses verbally, but there were a few yet to be finalised.
On 21 February 2018, NHBC sent Mr and Mrs M an email to confirm their earlier discussion. 
The email confirmed the works hoped to be completed within seven months, but should that 
change, there would be a further payment on a pro-rata basis to reflect the extended period. 
In response, Mr M confirmed they would be happy to sign on the basis their agreed costs of 
£20,000 are paid up front, covering the period through to September 2018.
Ive seen the access agreements for both apartments. Both include an appendix which sets 
out the agreed costs and period, and both of those pages are signed on 6 March 2018 by 
the NHBC employee who made the agreements. Ill refer to this individual as Mr K.Mr and Mrs Ms agreement confirmed that, following discussions with Mr K, a payment of 
£20,000 had been agreed. This was £16,500 for alternative accommodation or relocation 
costs, and £3,500 for redecorations. The £16,500 covered an eleven-month period from 
October 2017, and a pro-rata payment would follow should the works be extended.
Mrs Cs agreement confirmed a payment of £13,100. This was £9,100 for relocation during 
the seven months the scaffolding was scheduled; £500 for removals; and £3,500 for 
redecorations, carpets and curtains. Ive also seen Mrs C signed an offer letter on 
21 March 2018, which confirmed those costs.
Based on the information Ive seen, there were separate and individual agreements for each 
apartment within the block. Mr and Mrs M may have been able to negotiate more preferable 
terms, either because of how their apartment was impacted by the work, or simply because 
NHBC needed to secure their agreement to move the project forward. Either way, I havent 
seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs Ms terms were to apply to other leaseholders.
Mr M says his negotiations were also on the behalf of Mrs C, and she was meant to receive 
the same pro-rata terms. However, none of the email exchanges Ive seen from that time 
refer to Mrs C. I also note Mrs C wasnt copied into any of Mr Ms emails.
Furthermore, Mr M contacted NHBC during the following periods to chase further payments, 
and in the emails that Ive seen, theres again no mention of Mrs C:
- Between September and October 2018 (and a pro-rata payment was agreed up to 
the end of December 2018).
 
- Between March and July 2019 (and a final pro-rata payment was agreed up to the 
end of February 2019). 
Given Mr M says he had negotiated the same pro-rata terms for both apartments, and whilst 
he says he was no longer acting for Mrs C in October 2018, I find it unusual theres no 
mention of her in his correspondence. 
I accept that Mrs C was pursuing her own further payment from December 2018 onwards. 
However, if Mr M had agreed the further pro-rata payment term for both apartments, on 
balance, I consider it likely he would have mentioned Mrs C in his emails at the time of 
negotiating his agreement, and when he first chased his further payment.
Mr M says Mr K would have been able to confirm that Mr and Mrs Ms terms were to apply to 
Mrs C, but hes no longer employed by NHBC. However, as noted, both agreements are 
signed by Mr K on the page outlining the agreed costs. So, I dont consider it likely he 
understood the same terms were to apply to both apartments.
Therefore, in conclusion, Im not persuaded the pro-rata terms were agreed for Mrs Cs 
apartment. 
Ill turn now to the costs that Mrs Cs access agreement did cover. The documents included 
with, and referenced in the access agreement Mrs C signed, show the following:
- Prior to the terms being agreed, Mrs C had expressed a desire to relocate once the 
scaffolding is erected. She was asked to put this in writing.- Mrs Cs follow up letter, dated 10 November 2017, confirmed she was concerned 
about her living conditions once the scaffolding is erected; blocking the light and 
preventing the windows being opened. Mrs C said she had no option but to find 
alternative and comparable accommodation, which she thought would cost her 
£1,800 per month.
- Agreed costs included: Relocation  duration of scaffold scheduled for 7 months at 
total sum of £9,100.00 and Relocation fee £500 (removals).
The subsequent offer letter, also signed by Mrs C, confirms: Relocation costs (period of 7 
months) and Removal and storage costs £500.
In my view, its clear that Mrs Cs alternative accommodation costs were to be covered whilst 
the scaffolding was up, which was expected to be for seven months. So, if Mrs C had been 
paying for alternative accommodation for more than seven months, due to scaffolding still 
being in place, there would be a reasonable argument her additional costs above £9,100 
should be covered. 
However, as I understand it, despite Mrs C making a claim on the basis she would need to 
move out, and despite her receiving funds to move out, she chose not to move out for any 
extended periods. The emails Ive seen suggest she stayed living at the property until 
March 2019, when internal partitions were installed for internal work. NHBC says her 
apartment was habitable again by 20 March 2019, once the partitions were removed.
I accept Mrs C was told by NHBC she could continue living in her home and use the funds 
differently if she preferred. However, Im not persuaded that Mrs C can reasonably claim a 
further payment for the ongoing disruption, when the funds she received to relocate away 
from the disruption, hadnt been used for this purpose.
In Mrs Cs November 2017 letter, she asked for £1,800 per month. I acknowledge the £9,100 
for seven months only equates to £1,300 per month. However, if £1,300 per month wasnt 
enough for her to find a comparable apartment, and it was still her wish to relocate, she 
ought reasonably to have raised this with NHBC at the time.
I understand Mrs C is in her eighties, and the works have been a significant disruption to her. 
However, the policy concerned doesnt cover such inconvenience. It does cover alternative 
accommodation, but she hasnt said she incurred alternative accommodation or relocation 
costs above the £9,100 that NHBC paid. In my view, £9,100 is fair compensation for the 
impact the works had, particularly given inconvenience isnt covered by the policy.
I accept theres a question of fairness here, in respect of Mr and Mrs Ms access agreement 
including extension terms on a pro-rata basis, and others not. However, it was for each 
leaseholder to agree the terms that were acceptable to them based on their own 
circumstances.
Having considered the correspondence and documentation from the time; the policy terms; 
the costs Mrs C incurred; and the payment that she received, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, and Mr M, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman