DRN-3331051
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided an overdraft to 
her, and refused to assist her when she told them about her financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss B says that in 2011 HSBC irresponsibly gave her a £2,000 overdraft on her account. 
Miss B says she was a student at the time and wasnt earning enough to repay it. HSBC 
confirmed that they applied the overdraft to Miss Bs student account based on the qualifying 
criteria being met. 
Miss B said that she fell into further debt with the charges involved and was unable to come 
out of the overdraft.  Miss B said she decided to take out a loan to repay the overdraft. Miss 
B says when she contacted HSBC for help with freezing the charges on her account and to 
arrange repayment of the charges, she was told HSBC couldnt do this. But HSBC advised 
they werent aware of Miss Bs contact with them.
In March 2021 Miss B complained to HSBC. On 12 April 2021 HSBC sent their final 
response to Miss Bs complaint. They didnt uphold it. HSBC said that the overdraft and 
related charges on Miss Bs account were applied correctly and in line with their policy. So, 
HSBC advised that they were unable to refund any charges.
Unhappy with their response Miss B brought her complaint to us. In their file submission 
HSBC advised that they believed Miss B brought her complaint about irresponsible lending 
to us too late and didnt consent to us looking into it. One of our investigators looked into 
Miss Bs concerns and agreed with HSBC that the complaint relating to anything beyond six 
years ago wasnt something we could consider. However, our investigator felt that from 2015 
HSBC should have realised that Miss B was in financial difficulties and so should have done 
more to support her with her.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC remove all charges on Miss Bs account accrued 
after 3 October 2015 and arrange a repayment plan to settle any outstanding overdraft 
amounts or pay to Miss B any overpayments following the refund of charges.
Neither Miss B nor HSBC responded to our investigators view, so the case has been 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the rules about when a complaint must be 
made by. The rules are published in the FCAs Handbook, under the heading DISP.
Under the FCA rules, in order for our service to be able to consider whether HSBC should 
have given miss B the overdraft in 2011 Miss B needed to have raised her complaint to 
HSBC:
within six years of the event shes complaining about; or
within three years of when she ought to have reasonably become aware that she 
might have cause to complain
Miss B complained to HSBC on 16 March 2021 about the size of overdraft that had been 
given to her in 2011. Miss B said this led to her getting into debt and being unable to repay it. 
She also said HSBC didnt help her when she asked them earlier in 2021.
Miss B complained too late for her concerns to be considered under the first part of the rule. 
I also think Miss B would have had constructive knowledge more than three years ago that 
she had cause to complain about the size of her overdraft. I say this because Miss B said 
she earned less than the limit each month and that it led to her being in debt for years. So I 
think its reasonable to say that she would have been aware that the overdraft was 
unaffordable for her during that period.  
From the statements provided I can see that in 2015 Miss B was regularly near her limit. And 
the statements suggest this was the case before January 2015. In addition, Miss B received 
an annual summary of account charges in 2015, showing how much interest she paid over 
the past year. She also received a demand letter for outstanding debts on her credit card. 
Having considered this, Im persuaded Miss B should have reasonably had the knowledge 
that she had cause to complain about her overdraft. So, in the circumstances Im satisfied 
that under the second part of the rule Miss B has complained too late for her complaint about 
the overdraft being given to her.
I also havent been made aware of any exceptional circumstances that would have 
prevented Miss B from raising her complaint.
In consideration of this, and as HSBC hasnt consented to us looking into Miss Bs complaint 
about irresponsible lending in 2011, Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have 
done more for Miss B from 2015, which is six years prior to when she first complained to 
them about her overdraft limit.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the FCA handbook, 
says that a business should consider consumers in default or arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. This includes but is not limited to suspending, waiving or 
cancelling any further interest or charges or in certain circumstances allowing arrears to be 
deferred.
From the evidence provided I think HSBC should have done more to support Miss B.  
In their file submission to us HSBC said that Miss Bs account started accruing interest 
charges from October 2014 after her account had been converted from a student account to 
a bank account. Having reviewed the bank statements provided, ranging from 2015 to 2021 I 
can see that Miss B was in her overdraft the majority of the time and was regularly nearing 
her limit. I think its fair to say that Miss B was using her overdraft for long-term borrowing. Based on the regular credits to the account I think its reasonable to say Miss B would have 
been unable to repay the overdraft back in a reasonable period of time.
HSBC said in their correspondence to Miss B that overdrafts are designed for short term 
borrowing, and the Banking Conduct of Business source book (BCOBS), which can be found 
within the FCA handbook, confirms this when referencing financial promotions it says:
A firm may consider including the following in the information included to comply 
with BCOBS 2.2B.2R(1):
that overdrafts are primarily intended for short-term borrowing and are not generally 
suitable for longer-term borrowing;
HSBC provided us with copies of correspondence they sent to Miss B each year from 2015, 
which provided an overview of her overdraft usage. HSBCs correspondence demonstrated 
theyd reviewed Miss Bs account annually from 2015, and at least every six months from 
March 2020 to March 2021. Although I cant see that Miss B directly informed HSBC about 
her financial difficulties prior to March 2021, when she complained to them; with regular 
reviews of her account, I think HSBC should have realised the over reliance that Miss B had 
on her overdraft and should have done more to support her.  
CONC says that a business should communicate with a customer highlighting the 
customers pattern of overdraft usage. From the correspondence I can see that HSBC had 
done this. However, CONC also says where a business identifies that their customer is 
showing signs of actual or potential financial difficulties, the business should:
seek to explore the reasons for the customers pattern of overdraft use, as well as the 
reasons for the customers actual or potential financial difficulties, and what (if anything) 
the customer is doing, or intends to do, to address those issues.
It goes on to say that if appropriate the business must identify and set out suitable options 
designed to help the customer to reduce their overdraft usage and to address their actual or 
potential financial difficulties.
Although I can see that HSBC did correspond with Miss B about her overdraft I think from 
the account conduct it should have been apparent to HSBC that Miss B was potentially in 
financial difficulties and was over dependent on the overdraft facility. I think that had HSBC 
taken more action in 2015 to support Miss B, I think its likely she wouldnt have been in the 
situation she now finds herself in. So, Im satisfied that HSBC should have done more at the 
time to assist Miss B with managing her overdraft.
Putting things right
Given that I think HSBC should have done more for Miss B in 2015 when it continued 
charging her for her overdraft usage, I think its fair that HSBC should now put things right for 
her. 
The correspondence provided by HSBC shows the charges incurred on her account from the 
periods starting in October each year. With this being the case, Ill be instructing HSBC to 
rework Miss Bs account to remove all the interest and related charges added from October 
2015 onwards and pay to Miss B any overpayment following the settlement of the overdraft 
limit.Following the reworking of the account as described above, HSBC should arrange a 
repayment plan with Miss B if any outstanding overdraft balance remains, or pay 8% simple 
interest on any over payment following the settlement of the overdraft limit.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
rework Miss Bs account to remove all the overdraft interest and related charges 
from October 2015 onwards
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss B, for her to repay any outstanding 
overdraft amount following the reworking of the account, or pay 8% interest on any 
overpayment that may exist following the removed interest and charges
following the removal of interest and charges, if no outstanding overdraft balance 
remains, HSBC should remove any adverse credit information that may exist in 
relation to the account from October 2015; or if an overdraft balance remains HSBC 
should amend Miss Bs credit information to reflect the reworking of the account 
from October 2015 
If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman