DRN-3388588
The complaint
Miss S complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) and the service 
theyve provided her since she made them aware her circumstances had changed, and she 
was no longer able to meet her minimum monthly repayment.
What happened
In February 2019, Miss S applied for a guarantor loan with ELL. This application was 
approved, and Miss S was provided with a loan of £6,500 which was to be repaid over 48 
months with a monthly repayment of £277.63.
But Miss S contacted ELL in September 2021 to explain her financial circumstances had 
changed as her income had reduced due to being on maternity leave. So, she requested a 
repayment plan that would allow her to pay a reduced monthly amount that was more 
affordable. Miss S completed an income and expenditure form, which calculated she would 
be able to afford a monthly repayment of £82.80. 
ELL explained they needed to approve repayment plan before it could be put in place. And 
they needed bank statements from Miss S guarantor for this. So, while ELL were confirming 
this, Miss S made a payment of £100 to the account in both September and October. But 
she noticed ELL were reporting her account as in arrears on her credit file, so she didnt 
make a payment in November while she was waiting for the repayment plan to be agreed. 
ELL spoke to Miss S in December, where they explained they still required 3 months bank 
statements from Miss S and her guarantor. And they explained for an reschedule to be 
agreed, Miss S would need to make three consecutive payments of £82.80, which was the 
affordable amount calculated in her income and expenditure. Miss S was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss S was unhappy she hadnt been told sooner than she needed to make three 
consecutive payments for the loan reschedule to be agreed. And she was unhappy there 
had been missed payments recorded against her credit file when she was waiting for a 
repayment plan to be agreed. So, she wanted these to be removed. Miss S also wanted 
clarification on why ELL needed statements from her guarantor, who didnt want to provide 
them.
ELL responded and upheld Miss S complaint. They accepted they didnt make Miss S aware 
three consecutive payments were required. And they offered £50 to recognise any upset this 
caused. But they clarified that to put a reschedule in place, three consecutive payments of 
£82.80 would need to be made and bank statements would need to be provided by both 
Miss S and her guarantor, as well as an income and expenditure form. And they didnt think 
the missed payment marker reported to Miss S credit file in November 2021 should be 
removed as they didnt advise Miss S to refrain from making a payment. Miss S remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While Miss S complaint was with our service, ELL advised they would increase the 
compensation payable to Miss S to £75, to further recognise any upset shed been caused. 
And they agreed to remove any adverse data reported to Miss S credit file in October and 
December 2021, as well as confirming nothing was reported in September. But they 
maintained their stance that the missed payment reported in November should remain.
Miss S didnt agree. And she didnt think it was fair that ELL were refusing to proceed with a 
reschedule of the loan until her guarantor provided bank statements and an income and 
expenditure. So, our investigator continued with their investigation.
And having done so, they upheld Miss S complaint. They didnt think it was fair for ELL to 
report a missed payment to Miss S credit file for November, when it was ELL who had 
delayed the approval of a repayment plan and then a reschedule of the loan. So, they 
thought this should be removed. And they accepted the upset this wouldve caused Miss S, 
so they thought ELL should pay Miss S the £75 they offered. But they thought ELL acted 
fairly when requesting bank statements and an income and expenditure from Miss S 
guarantor, as ELL were entitled to ask the guarantor to cover the shortfall of Miss S 
payment unless they couldnt afford it. And they thought ELL made Miss S reasonably aware 
in January 2022 that she needed to make the agreed payment of £82.80, rather than the 
£100 shed been making, as this is the affordable amount calculated in her own income and 
expenditure. So, they didnt think ELL needed to do anything more in relation to that aspect 
of the complaint.
Miss S didnt agree. She maintained her belief that it was unfair for ELL not to count the 
£100 payments she made as part of the continuous payments she needed to make. And she 
maintained her view that statements and income and expenditure information from her 
guarantor shouldnt be required. As Miss S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
ELL dont dispute they acted unfairly between September  December 2021. Theyve 
recognised they didnt make it clear to Miss S that she needed to make three consecutive 
payments of £82.80 in order to meet the criteria needed to qualify for a loan reschedule. In 
order to recognise this, and the upset Miss S was caused, theyve agreed to remove any 
adverse data reported to her credit file in October and December 2021, as well as pay Miss 
S £75 as a compensatory payment. As ELL dont dispute theyve acted unfairly, I dont 
intend to discuss this aspect of the complaint any further. The main dispute surrounding this 
relates to what ELL should do to put things right, which Ive thought about and commented 
on further on in my decision.
But ELL dont think theyve done anything wrong when deciding Miss S still needs to make 
three consecutive payments of £82.80, even though shes made payments of £100. Miss S 
doesnt think this is fair or reasonable. So, Ive thought about whether I think ELL have acted 
unfairly here. And I dont think they have.
When Miss L made ELL aware she was in financial difficulty due to a change in her 
circumstances, Miss S completed an income and expenditure form. And this showed she 
was able to afford a payment of £82.80 a month. So, I dont think its unreasonable for ELL to state this is the payment Miss S needed to make for three months consecutively. This is 
because ELL have a duty to act positively and sympathetically towards Miss S situation and 
ensure shes only paying what she is able to afford.
I cant see anything to show ELL telling Miss S they expected her to make a payment for 
more than this amount. And when Miss S did so, I dont think ELL were unreasonable to 
request that a new income and expenditure be completed if this is what Miss S wanted to 
pay, as it suggested the previous income and expenditure information was incorrect. So, 
while I understand Miss S frustration that she made payments in December 2021, January 
2022 and February 2022 for more than the £82.80, I dont think I can say ELL have acted 
unfairly. I think ELL acted reasonably when deciding these payments failed to qualify as 
payments that met the criteria for the rescheduling of the loan at £82.80 a month.
I can also see ELL made Miss S reasonably aware in their correspondence sent in January 
2022 that it was the payment of £82.80 they required. So, I think it was Miss S own decision 
to make a payment different to the one ELL requested after this point. Thats not to say I 
dont appreciate Miss S point of view, or the fact she was making overpayments in good 
faith. But Miss S had requested a loan reschedule and I think its reasonable for ELL to 
expect Miss S to make the payment that had been agreed through this process.
And even if I did think ELL had acted unfairly regarding what payment amount they would 
accept to meet the rescheduling criteria; I dont think this would make a material difference to 
the situation Miss S finds herself in. This is because as well as three continuous payments 
from Miss S, ELL also require three months bank statements from Miss S and her guarantor 
as well Miss S guarantors income and expenditure information. And from what I can see, 
Miss S guarantor hasnt provided this. So, I dont think Miss S wouldve been able to 
reschedule her loan as she wished without this.
I understand Miss S has also raised concerns about ELLs need for her guarantors 
information. But I dont think ELL have acted unfairly when requesting this. Miss S guarantor 
associated with the loan agreed to be liable for any shortfall on payments Miss S makes. So, 
I dont think ELL are unreasonable to ask for information to show Miss S guarantor cant 
afford the difference between the £82.80 Miss S can pay, and the minimum monthly 
repayment of £277.63. If the guarantor is unable to provide this information, then I think ELL 
are entitled to ask the guarantor to make the required payments to cover the loan and any 
arrears that have accrued. So, I think its reasonable for ELL to halt any rescheduling of the 
loan until this information is received and I cant say ELL have acted unfairly. Because of 
this, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. 
Putting things right
When deciding what ELL should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Miss S back in the position she wouldve been, had ELL acted fairly in the 
first place.
In this situation, I think if ELL had acted fairly they wouldve made it clear to Miss S she 
needed to make three consecutive payments of £82.80 when her affordability was calculated 
in September 2021. And I think its reasonable for me to assume that if she had, she 
wouldve made her payment in November, as well as those made in October and December 
as it wouldve ensured her she met this part of the criteria needed for the reschedule which 
is what she wanted. ELL have accepted they didnt make this clear. So, I think they should 
remove any adverse information reported to Miss S credit file for November, in line with the 
same removal theyve already offered for October and December. 
And I think its clear Miss S has been left upset and frustrated at the impact this missed payment has had on her credit file, especially considering the length of time it took ELL to 
agree a reschedule and what information would be required. ELL have already offered Miss 
S £75 to recognise this upset. But Miss S doesnt think this is enough as she doesnt think it 
factors in the impact its had on her mental health during the first few months of her maternity 
leave, where shes been looking after her newborn.
Ive thought about this at length. And having done so, I think the £75 ELL have offered falls 
in line with what I wouldve awarded, had it not already been made. I think it takes into 
consideration the short-term impact on Miss S credit file and the inconvenience shes 
experienced trying to agree for the marker to be removed. But I think it also takes into 
consideration the fact Miss S has needed to continue correspondence with ELL as shes 
been unable to provide her guarantors information that she requires for a reschedule to be 
agreed. So, I think Miss S is likely to have experienced some inconvenience which has 
resulted without any fault from ELL. So, I think ELL should pay Miss S £75.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves Miss 
S in a position where she will require the co-operation of her guarantor before a permanent 
reschedule can be agreed. But as Ive explained, I dont think this is an unreasonable 
request of ELL. Nor do I think ELL are responsible for ensuring this documentation is 
provided as it was Miss S and her guarantors decision to enter into the loan agreement. Im 
aware Miss S has raised concerns about the checks ELL conducted on her guarantor when 
the loan was originally provided. This would be a complaint about affordability that would 
need to be raised separately with ELL and them given a chance to respond.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss S complaint about Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Trusttwo and I direct them to take the following action:
Remove any adverse data reported to Miss S credit file between October  
December 2021 that hasnt already been removed; and
Pay Miss S £75 to recognise the upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ombudsman