DRN-3707045
The complaint
Mr F complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr F has an annual multi trip travel insurance policy to cover trips within Europe for himself 
and his family. This policy is underwritten by IPA. 
He booked a family trip abroad, departing from the UK on 29 December 2021 and was due 
to return on 11 January 2022. As part of his return journey, Mr F had a domestic flight 
booked within the country he was visiting to get to the airport to take his flight back to the 
UK.
On 8 January 2022, Mr Fs airline advised him that changes had been made by the local 
government which meant that travellers on domestic flights from 10 January 2022 had to 
have received their Covid-19 vaccinations or provide proof that they had recovered from 
Covid-19. Mr F and his daughter didnt fit these criteria and therefore were not able to take 
the domestic flight. In addition to this, they werent able to travel before the deadline as Mr F 
was waiting for his passport to be renewed and the document wouldnt be available before 
this date. As a result, they had to purchase new international flights back to the UK and 
incurred other additional expenses. 
Upon his return to the UK, Mr F submitted a claim to IPA for his additional expenses. But IPA 
rejected the claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover for claims arising from changes in 
government advice for travel. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr F complained to IPA and 
brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think 
that the policy provided cover for what had happened. So, she didnt think IPA had to do 
anything more.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F was unable to travel on his originally planned return journey as a result of restrictions 
on domestic flights put in place by the government of the country he was visiting.  
IPA has said that the circumstances of his claim are not covered by the policy and has 
referred to the following exclusion as applying to his situation:
16. Any claim where you cannot travel or choose not to travel because the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) (or any other equivalent 
government body in another country) advises against travel due to a pandemic.
Having looked at this exclusion, Im not persuaded that this applies to Mr Fs circumstances. 
The local government didnt advise against travel due to the pandemic, but instead placed 
restrictions on who could travel on domestic flights within the country. So, I dont think it is 
fair for IPA to use this exclusion to decline cover on Mr Fs claim. 
However, as noted by our investigator, this exclusion appears under the Travel Disruption 
section of the policy and this section is only operative if indicated on the policy schedule. 
When looking at Mr Fs policy schedule, it doesnt appear that this section has been selected 
for cover and so the claim couldnt be considered under this section in any event. It is 
important to note at this point that, even if Mr F had included Travel Disruption cover on his 
policy, this section wouldnt have provided cover for the scenario he encountered. 
IPA also told Mr F that the circumstances which caused his claim were not covered under 
the policy. Ive therefore reviewed the remaining sections of the policy to see what cover is 
available. Both Section G  Delayed Departure and Section H  Missed Departure provide 
cover for delays to travel, however, the cover is only provided for certain listed reasons and 
situations. Im satisfied that the circumstances Mr F found himself in dont fall within these 
other sections of cover.
Mr F said he would have travelled to the international airport before the deadline came into 
force, however, his passport had expired, and he had to wait for the local authorities to issue 
a new one. This didnt happen until after the restrictions for non-vaccinated travellers came 
into force. Mr F says this is what caused him to incur expenses and so his claim should be 
considered on this basis. But as mentioned previously, the policy lists certain reasons for 
which it will provide cover and being unable to travel whilst waiting for the renewal of a 
passport isnt a covered reason. So, this doesnt alter my outcome.
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The 
events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Fs claim is covered under the 
policy terms and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for 
me to ask IPA to accept his claim. Im therefore not persuaded that IPA needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman