DRN-3942032
The complaint
Miss C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited settled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy unfairly after her car was declared a total loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The policy terms define market value as the cost of replacing your vehicle; with one 
of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices 
immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term market refers to where your 
vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised 
motor trade guides. I dont find this definition to be unusual or surprising as many 
insurers define market value in a similar way.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers 
our service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at 
the month of loss. The guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be 
taken into consideration including any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors 
such as the age and mileage of a car can have a big impact on its value. If a guide 
price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to 
ignore it. We generally find the motor trade guides to be more accurate than adverts 
as the asking prices stated in adverts allow room for downward negotiation. 
Admiral have explained that they valued Miss Cs car at £6,440 as this was the 
highest value suggested by the two motor trade guides they checked. Ive checked 
four guides in total and they provided the following values for Miss Cs car: £5,353, 
£6,395, £6,440, and £6,757. I can confirm that all of these values were based on the 
correct details for Miss Cs car and month of loss. So, I think it's reasonable to take 
these values into consideration. 
Im also satisfied it would be appropriate to treat the lowest value suggested by the 
guides £5,353 as an outlier compared to the others. This means I would reasonably 
expect Admiral to offer a value that falls within the range of values suggested by the 
remaining three guides. And Im satisfied they did this here by valuing Miss Cs car at 
£6,440. There is no requirement for Admiral to offer the highest value or the average. 
Miss C has provided adverts that suggest similar cars to hers are advertised at 
higher prices than the trade guides have indicated. However, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, we tend to find the motor trade guides more persuasive than 
adverts. And Ive not seen anything in this particular complaint, that leads me to 
conclude Admiral should reasonably increase the valuation they reached by relying  
on the motor trade guides instead of adverts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman