DRN-3728509
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Mr L applied for an initial loan of £1,000.00 with L2G in July 2021 this loan was settled within 
the withdrawal period and Mr L instead then took a second loan for £1,500.00. As Mr W 
effectively withdrew from loan 1, weve only considered his complaint about loan 2. So all 
reference made to loan from this point onwards relates to loan 2.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr L and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G 
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr L could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr L with a loan for £1,500.00 in July 2021. It had an APR of 253.7% and was 
to due be repaid in 24 instalments of £181, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£4,334.00. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Ls application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr L. The information Mr L provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be 
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event, 
adjusted Mr Ls declaration to account for what its verification checks showed and this left 
enough for Mr L to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr L has said he was in financial difficulty and 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr L and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
this was Mr Ls first proper loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr L was 
asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
alarming (there was some adverse information but it was historic and Mr Ls more recent 
credit history was much more stable), Mr Ls lack of any previous lending with L2G, as well 
as the amount of the monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely 
on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that Mr Ls actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered 
and Im sorry to hear that Mr L might have struggled to make his payments. But its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr L 
- it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it was provided 
with may not have told the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved 
and its lack of previous history with Mr L, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide 
this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance should Mr L be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect payments from 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman