DRN-2260055
The complaint
Mr W complains about Waterloo Solutions Limited, trading as uclaim4me Management 
Services, and their failure to submit claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance on 
behalf of limited companies he owned.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr W completed a form asking Waterloo to complete a free payment 
protection insurance (PPI) check on accounts he held with Lender L. Waterloo made this 
submission to Lender L a few days later.
Mr W then provided Waterloo with a signed letter of authority (LOA) allowing them to 
pursue a claim on his behalf if PPI was identified on his accounts with Lender L. Alongside 
this LOA, Mr W provided a cover letter explaining the pack he received didnt include a 
cancellation form. He also referred to his two limited companies, which Ill refer to as 
Company D and Company P.
On 11 August, Waterloo received a PPI questionnaire from Mr W. A few days later, Mr W 
sent Waterloo a letter asking for an update on his claims. Waterloo say they didnt receive 
this letter.
Waterloo then resubmitted their PPI information request as Lender L hadnt responded and 
they updated Mr W about this. In October, Lender L responded confirming Mr W didnt have 
PPI on his personal account. In November, Mr W wrote to Waterloo asking for an update on 
the claims he believed they were pursuing on behalf of his limited companies. Waterloo have 
recognised no response was sent to Mr W regarding this. As Mr W didnt receive a 
response, he contacted us to raise a complaint. But we explained Waterloo must be given a 
chance to respond to the complaint before we can investigate. So, we referred Mr Ws 
complaint to them.
Mr W complained that Waterloo had failed to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on behalf of 
loans provided by Lender L to his two limited companies. And because of this, hed now 
missed the PPI deadline. So, he thought hed been impacted financially as he was sure hed 
been mis-sold PPI on the loans, and he wanted Waterloo to compensate for the amount he 
thought hed lost.
Waterloo responded and upheld his complaint in part. They didnt think Mr W had made it 
reasonably clear that he wanted them to pursue claims on behalf of his limited companies. 
And they explained if he had, they wouldnt have been able to do anything more as they 
dont pursue those sorts of claims. They also felt theyd progressed the claim for his 
individual accounts fairly.
But they recognised theyd failed to react to his cover letter sent alongside his LOA which 
named Company D and Company P. They agreed they shouldve asked more about this 
letter. And they also recognised their failure to respond to the letter he sent in November 
asking for an update. So, they offered Mr W £50 to recognise their failures to respond.
Mr W didnt agree. He thought Waterloos failures had prevented him from raising PPI claims 
on behalf of his limited companies. He calculated these claims to be worth between £2,500 
to £5,000 so he wanted Waterloo to compensate him to this amount. As Mr W didnt agree, 
he asked us to investigate the matter.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think the 
information Mr W provided to Waterloo made it clear he wanted them to pursue claims on 
behalf of his limited companies. She explained the initial PPI form and the LOA Mr W signed 
included his personal details only. So, she thought Waterloo acted reasonably when only 
pursuing claims for his personal accounts.
But she agreed Waterloo shouldve responded to the letters in June and November. She 
also noted Mr W had sent another letter in August but explained Waterloo hadnt received it. 
Although she didnt think it was fair to say Waterloo had prevented Mr W from making claims 
on behalf of his companies as theyd have been unable to do so anyway, she thought their 
failure to respond to his letters wouldve been frustrating.  So, she thought the £50 Waterloo 
offered was a fair one and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt understand why Waterloo hadnt received his letter in August. 
And he maintained if theyd responded, hed have been able to raise a complaint before the 
PPI deadline. So, he still thought Waterloo should reimburse him for the PPI he felt he 
shouldve received. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaints been passed to be for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Mr W. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting to realise he hadnt claimed for mis-sold PPI on loans taken out by 
Company D and Company P. As the PPI deadline had passed by the time he realised, I can 
understand why Mr W feels as though hes missed out financially, and frustrated that hes 
unable to pursue these claims any further. But, for me to say this was Waterloos fault, Id 
need to be satisfied that Mr W made it reasonably clear to them that he wanted them to 
make claims for these loans. And if so, Id then need to consider whether there was a 
chance of these claims being successful, considering they were on behalf of companies that 
had since ceased trading. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the initial PPI check form Mr W sent to Waterloo. And the LOA he sent in the days 
after. On both forms, Mr W included his own personal details with no reference to either 
Company D or Company P. Its important to note that limited companies are separate legal 
entities. So, for Waterloo to submit any claims on behalf of these, a separate LOA would be 
needed with the companys information.
Because of this, I think the information Mr W provided led Waterloo to reasonably assume 
they were being instructed to pursue claims for Mr Ws personal accounts. And they did this 
fairly, with Lender L confirming there was no PPI.
But I am aware Mr W sent a cover letter alongside the LOA. The cover letter said the 
following:There are two companies Im looking at: {Company D and Company P}
I dont think this is enough information for Waterloo to realise Mr W wanted them to raise 
claims on behalf of the companies. So, I cant say this letter alone means Waterloo did 
something wrong when only continuing with claims for his personal accounts. And in any 
event, Waterloo have confirmed they dont pursue claims of that kind.
But I do think Waterloo shouldve read this cover letter and noticed this additional 
information. And I wouldve expected them to ask for more clarity on who the companies 
were and why they were referenced. Had they done so, they wouldve been able to explain 
to Mr W that they were unable to pursue claims on behalf of limited companies. 
Im aware Mr W also sent another letter, on 14 August, which Waterloo have explained they 
didnt receive. And Im unable to speculate on why this was. But even if they had, this letter 
doesnt include any specific information about Company D or Company P. Its requested a 
generic update on the status of Mr Ws claim. And as far as Waterloo were concerned at that 
time, they were pursuing claims for Mr Ws personal accounts only. So, although there was 
no response to this, I dont think this wouldve impacted Mr Ws realisation that a claim on 
behalf of his limited companies hadnt been raised.
And by the time Mr W had written to Waterloo in November, which did specify his claims 
about Company D and Company P, the PPI deadline had passed. So, by this time, Waterloo 
wouldve been unable to do anything further. But again, I wouldve expected Waterloo to 
respond to the explaining the situation. And they didnt do this. So, I dont think they acted 
reasonably here.
So, I do think Waterloo acted unreasonably when not acknowledging the contents of Mr Ws 
cover letter in June, and when they didnt respond to his subsequent letters. And I think Mr 
W should be compensated for this. Im aware they offered Mr W a payment of £50, which 
our investigator said was a fair one. But I recognise Mr W doesnt agree and he thinks 
Waterloo prevented him from raising a claim on behalf of his limited companies. So, Ive 
considered what I think a fair offer should be.
First, its important to note that Mr W himself as an individual didnt lose an opportunity to 
raise a claim for mis-sold PPI. Limited companies are separate legal entities, so it was the 
limited company who was unable to raise a PPI claim before the deadline. Any 
compensation I award for this complaint can only before the impact Mr W has experienced, 
not Company D or Company P. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct Waterloo to make any 
payment for loss of opportunity and based it on any potential refund Company D or company 
P received.
And its also important to note that the companies had ceased trading. And were any PPI to 
be refunded, it would need to be refunded to the company. As the companies were no longer 
trading, they wouldnt have been existence to receive any refund. And even then, Im unable 
to speculate on whether the claims were successful.
Because of this, Ive based what compensation amount I think is fair around the upset Mr W 
experienced as a result of Waterloos actions. And I do think Mr W instructed Waterloo under 
with the intention that his companies claims were also being progressed. And, although I 
dont think this was made clear enough to Waterloo, I do think their failure to respond to his 
communication has added to the frustration Mr W now feels after he is realising the claims 
could no longer be pursued. Considering Mr Ws upset against my decision that Waterloo 
couldnt have been reasonably aware that Mr W thought his companies claims were being progressed, I think the £50 Waterloo offered is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve 
directed. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Waterloo Solutions 
Limited, trading as uclaim4me management services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman