DRN-4513883
The complaint
Mr E has complained about a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Ltd. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr E acquired a used car under a conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn in November 2022. The car cost around £18,000 and the 
agreement was due to be paid back over four years with payments of around £540. The car 
was a 2019 car and was sold with around 15,000 mileage. 
Mr E said he obtained a settlement figure in early 2023 because he was looking to sell the 
car. He said he tried to sell it in March 2023, but the dealer told him it wouldnt be able to buy 
the car because there was finance on it and a mileage discrepancy. The sale was cancelled. 
Mr E raised a complaint with Moneybarn, the broker and the supplying dealer. As things 
werent resolved promptly, he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He also 
tried to sell the car elsewhere, but this was refused because the dealer found evidence the 
mileage was around 56,000. Mr E informed the parties hed complained to. Mr E said the 
supplying dealer offered to send the car to a manufacturer to check whether manipulation 
had taken place. Mr E said the supplying dealer gave him misinformation to start with, but 
the manufacturer garage ultimately said the car had its mileage manipulated. 
Mr E said the supplying dealer offered to buy back the car from him for £16,250 but he had 
to pay around £1,400 himself to settle the agreement. Mr E said a missed payment was 
reported by Moneybarn in the meantime. He said the matter caused significant distress and 
inconvenience because it was holding up a house sale. 
Moneybarn sent a final response letter in June 2023. It apologised for the delay in 
responding to Mr Es concerns. It said once it received sufficient evidence it agreed the 
mileage had been manipulated. To resolve the complaint, it offered a refund of 3 months 
repayments totalling around £1,600. It offered £75 compensation, and together with interest 
on the repayments the total it gave back to Mr E was around £1,750. Mr E wasnt happy with 
the resolution. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
thought the three months refund was broadly fair, but he thought the compensation should 
be increased to £200. 
Mr E was unhappy with the assessment. He reiterated hed spent three months trying to 
resolve things. The problem happened at a really bad time considering the house sale and 
the compensation wasnt sufficient. He originally requested compensation of around 
£20,000. But later he said he wants all the payments he made towards the agreement 
refunded; the difference between the cash price of the car and what the supplying dealer 
bought it back for, and £2,000 compensation. He said he was willing to accept £4,000.
I cant see we received a response from Moneybarn. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mr E and Moneybarn that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this.
Mr E acquired the car under a regulated conditional sale agreement. Our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The Consumer Right Act 2015 sets out, amongst other things, that goods supplied should be 
as described and of satisfactory quality. 
In Mr Es case, the parties all seem to have accepted the mileage of the car had been 
manipulated. The supplying dealer agreed to buy the car back. Whats left to decide is how 
to put things right for Mr E. 
Its important to note that Im considering a complaint against Moneybarn, and not the dealer 
or the broker. I can see Mr E was unhappy with the service from the dealer in particular. But 
I cant generally hold Moneybarn responsible for actions of the dealer after the supply of the 
car. But as the supplier of the goods under the conditional sale agreement, Moneybarn is 
responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality.
Ive looked at the payments Mr E made towards the agreement. He made payments from 
December 2022 to April 2023. And he tells us he stopped paying in May 2023 which is 
around the time he says he declared the car off road and cancelled his insurance. I think its 
fair Mr E pays for his use of the car. Theres no exact science to work out how fair usage 
should be calculated. But I think the monthly repayments towards the conditional sale 
agreement are broadly a fair measure. 
Mr E didnt pay a deposit, but hes made repayments from December 2022 to April 2023. 
Mr E also tells us he paid £1,466.91 when the supplying dealer bought back the car to cover 
the shortfall in the settlement, so this needs to be taken into account as well. 
Moneybarn offered Mr E a refund of three months repayments totalling £1,617.99. This is 
around £150 more than he paid when the supplying dealer bought back the car. Moneybarn 
also offered £75 compensation on top of this. And our investigator has recommended this is 
increased to £200. Therefore, Mr E will be receiving around £350 compensation with interest 
on top. While I appreciate Mr E doesnt think this goes far enough, in all the circumstances I 
think this is a fair way to put things right. Moneybarn also asked if there were any other out 
of pocket expenses occurred which I think was fair of it. In summary, Im not going to direct Moneybarn to refund Mr E all his payments for the 
reasons Ive set out above. I think its fair for Mr E to pay for the use he had of the car. While 
I appreciate Mr E wants the difference between the cash price of the car and what he sold it 
for, I dont have the grounds to direct Moneybarn to reimburse him this amount. If hed 
rejected the car direct with Moneybarn he wouldnt have been due this amount. Ive not been 
supplied any evidence Mr E has suffered a separate financial loss as a result of the problem, 
nor of the direct impact on the house sale. I think compensation of around £350 is broadly a 
fair way for Moneybarn to recognise the impact the mistake had on Mr E, and the 
inconvenience he was put to in resolving things. For completeness, I think its fair that any 
adverse information is also removed from Mr Es credit file as well, if there is any. 
Mr E responded to clarify the timeline. In summary, he also wanted to say Moneybarn didnt 
carry out due diligence when appointing a broker. He wanted to know why Moneybarn took 
so long to acknowledge the issue. He also said his house sale was about to fall through 
because of the issue. Mr E said the compensation doesnt go far enough. He said theres 
been no apology from Moneybarn and that the Financial Ombudsman has endorsed its 
behaviours. He said he doesnt have hesitation in escalating the claim through other means. 
Moneybarn said it accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their responses. Ive not been supplied anything materially 
new to consider, so Im not going to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I appreciate Mr E doesnt think the compensation goes far enough. But Ive set out 
in my provisional decision why I think its fair. Hes not supplied any further supporting 
evidence to show the impact the issue had on his house sale for example. 
I also need to point out that its my role to investigate the individual circumstances of Mr Es 
dispute. Its not my role to endorse or authorise Moneybarns practices. The Financial 
Conduct Authority handles regulation and authorisation. Moreover, Moneybarn has 
apologised to Mr E, so Im not going to direct it to do that again. 
In all the circumstances, for the reasons given above, I think what I said in the provisional 
decision is broadly fair. No amount of money can change what happened. But I think the 
total sum under the award broadly reflects what went wrong, and for how long Mr E was 
impacted by the issue. 
Mr E doesnt have to accept the decision. Hes free to pursue the complaint by other means, 
such as through the courts, if he wishes.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Ltd, to the extent 
its not done so already, to:
Refund Mr E the three repayments it referred to in its final response letter together 
with 8% simple annual interest from the date each payment was made to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr E £200 compensation. 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Es credit file. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman