DRN-2981376
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund him payments under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr G says he asked Santander to refund a number of direct debit payments to a company I 
will call S. He says he was entitled to a refund of the payments under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee (DDG) and says Santander has no right to question the reasons for the request. 
Mr G says the fact he asked for a refund is all the information Santander needs and would 
like the direct debits refunded.
Santander says its entitled to ask Mr G for further information about the reasons for the 
refund request and says Mr G set up the direct debit to S. It says it hasnt made a mistake 
and will review Mr Gs claim if he provides the required information.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander was reasonably entitled to ask Mr G for further information and hadnt 
made a mistake by doing so.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says the DDG is misleading and says we should be able 
to order a business to offer a guarantee. He says the direct debit to S was set up on the 
telephone and questions what information he could provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
what has taken place.
I make clear to Mr G that we are not Santanders regulator and so its not our role to punish it 
or tell it how it runs its business. We are also not responsible for the terms of the DDG.
The DDG is in place to protect customers where for example an incorrect amount is taken by 
direct debit or where a payment is taken on an incorrect date. It cant be used to resolve a 
contractual dispute between parties.
So, I dont think Santander acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking Mr G for further 
information about his direct debit refund request. I think Santander wished to confirm that Mr 
G and S were not in a contractual dispute and if the DDG applied. Im satisfied Mr G didnt 
provide Santander with the required information and so I dont think it made a mistake by 
refusing to refund the direct debit. Im also satisfied that Santander has fairly said it would 
review the position again if Mr G provided further details about the dispute.
I appreciate Mr G says the direct debit with S was set up on the telephone. But I think it likely 
that Mr G could have provided Santander with further information about the contract, such as 
the nature of the contract, a copy of actual contract and why Mr G disputed the amounts. I 
can see that Mr G has maintained that he wasnt obliged to provide that information under 
the DDG, but I have made clear that I find he was obliged to provide it.
I also appreciate Mr G says the term guarantee is misleading. That is not something I can 
fairly comment on and have made clear that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I 
have explained. I also find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman