DRN-4059393
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the remaining money she lost 
after she fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP scam).
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here.
But briefly, in July 2022, Miss T received a call from an individual purporting to be from 
Starling, telling her that her accounts were at risk. But unknown to Miss T at the time, the call 
was from a fraudster. Miss T has said, some time before she was called by the fraudster, 
she had clicked a link on her mobile phone and provided her card details, but realising this 
was a scam Mrs T had called Starling, at which time her card had been cancelled and 
replaced.
The fraudster suggested to Miss T that, to reassure herself that the call was genuine, she 
should verify the number she was being called from online. When Miss T did this, she says 
she could see it was a Starling number. The fraudsters told Miss T that she needed to move 
her money to a safe account in order to protect it, as fraudsters had access to all of her 
accounts.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 20 July 2022, Miss T was persuaded to move over 
£18,000 from a savings account she held with another banking provider into her Starling 
account. Following which, she made 37 payments in around 30 minutes to account details 
the fraudsters provided. In total, Miss T made payments totalling £19,240 from her Starling 
account to an account that was controlled by the fraudsters.
Miss T has said she was on the phone to the fraudster the whole time and was told she was 
making the payments for her own safety. Miss T has said that at the time, thinking her 
money was at risk, she felt rushed and was crying. She said she questioned the fraudster, 
but they comforted her and told her they were there to help. Miss T realised shed been 
scammed when, after shed moved all of her money, the line went dead.
Miss T contacted Starling to report that she had been the victim of a scam. Starling looked 
into Miss Ts complaint and considered its obligations to provide her with a refund. Starling is 
a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case and that Miss T hadnt met the standards required of the Code.
In summary, in its final response letter, in November 2022, Starling recognised that, at the 
point Miss T made a payment at 16:58 on 20 July 2022 (for £680), it could have done more 
to protect her, so it accepted under the CRM code that it should share responsibility. With 
this in mind it agreed to refund 50% of Miss Ts loss, from the point she had made the 
payment at 16:58 and it credited Miss Ts account with £8,925.00.
Starling thought Miss T should also bear some responsibility for her loss. In summary this 
was because it didnt think she had a reasonable basis for belief that the person she was 
transacting with was legitimate. Starling added that Miss T was presented with warnings at 
the time she made the payments, however it said due to the value of the payments it did not 
present enhanced effective warnings.
Starling also tried to recover the money Miss T lost from the beneficiary accounts (the 
accounts to which the payments were sent). It was able to recover £2.97, which was 
returned to Miss T, but unfortunately no further funds remained to be recovered.
Starling recognised there was a delay in providing Miss T with a response to her fraud claim 
and because of this it compensated Miss T with £150.00.
Believing she should have been refunded in full Miss T referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think Starling had established that Miss T didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief, or that she had ignored an effective warning. He added that he thought there was 
enough going on, from the first transaction that Miss T made to the fraudsters, that ought to 
have prompted Starling to have intervened and he thought this intervention would have 
made a difference. It was our Investigators view that Starling should refund Miss T the 
remaining money she lost, along with interest. Our Investigator also thought Starling should 
pay Miss T £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss T agreed with our Investigators view. Starling didnt agree, in summary it thought alarm 
bells should have rung with Miss T when she was asked to make 37 small transactions, 
rather than a bulk one.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed over to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be 
good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment because of the actions of a fraudster, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though 
they authorised the payment. The CRM Code is of particular significance here. As Ive 
mentioned, Starling is a signatory to that code, which requires its signatories to reimburse 
customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Starling says that one or more of those exceptions are applicable in this 
case.
Did Miss T have a reasonable basis for belief?
I have thought carefully about whether Miss T had a reasonable basis for belief when 
making the payments and Im persuaded that she did. I say that because;- Shortly before the scam, Miss T had provided her bank card details after falling 
foul to a phishing scam. She reported this to Starling and new bank cards were 
issued. It seems the fraudsters were aware of this. So, where the fraudsters, 
when they called her, told Miss T that there was suspicious activity on her 
account, I think it is understandable and not unreasonable why she may have 
thought this was something her bank would want to discuss with her, as a matter 
of some urgency, if her accounts were at risk.
- The sophistication of the scam enabled the fraudster to spoof a banks genuine 
telephone number which re-assured Miss T they were genuine. Im also satisfied 
Miss T was unaware that phone numbers can be spoofed so that calls appear to 
come from a genuine source.
- Miss T also made attempts to verify the number she had been called on. Miss T 
has said the fraudster coached her through checking the number she was being 
called from online. Which I think reasonably gave her further assurances that she 
was genuinely talking to her bank.
- Miss T was being put under time pressure to move her money, in order to protect 
it, as is often the case for customers affected by this type of scam. I dont think 
Starling has given enough consideration to the fact the fraudster had created an 
environment where Miss T thought she had to act quickly to protect her accounts 
from an attack. With the benefit of hindsight and the removal of the pressured 
environment, its easier to identify elements where Miss T may have had an 
opportunity to ask further questions. But the convincing nature of these scams 
can often have a negative effect on a persons thought process and make them 
take steps that, in the cold light of day, they might not otherwise take.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Starling has done enough to establish that Miss T made 
these payments without a reasonable basis for believing that she was transacting with a 
legitimate employee of her bank.
Starling has acknowledged that it ought to have intervened sooner than it did. It has added 
that, while it did present Miss T with warnings at the time she made the payments, it didnt 
present enhanced effective warnings. In any event, I dont think the warnings Starling has 
said it did present could be considered as effective, under the CRM code. I say this because 
the warning wasnt specific to the scam that Miss T was falling victim to and doesnt give any 
detail about how these type of impersonation scams look and feel, such as fraudsters 
impersonating bank employees and having the ability to spoof genuine telephone numbers. 
So, I dont think Starling has established that Miss T ignored an effective warning.
Considering everything, Im persuaded that Starling should have reimbursed all the money 
Miss T lost from her Starling account under the CRM Code. Im not satisfied that any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
Should Starling have done more to prevent the scam?
In addition, I think that Starling ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam.
Miss T transferred a large sum into her account to facilitate the payments to the fraudsters 
(over £18,000, which was not typical for her when compared to her account activity over 
recent months) and she then set up a new payee. When coupling this with what the bank already knew, that Miss T had recently been the target of a phishing attack, I think Starling 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been on a heightened state of alert that she may have 
been at risk of financial harm.
Considering this, I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Starling to have intervened 
and questioned Miss T at the point she was making the first payment to a new payee and for 
it to have asked Miss T some questions, before allowing the payments to be processed. Had 
it done so, I think the scam wouldve quickly unfolded and Miss T wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the first, or the subsequent payments.
The relevance of this finding is that Starling ought to have prevented the loss, rather than 
just reimbursed Miss T under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows that Starling should 
pay Miss T interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund her 
under the CRM Code.
Service provided to Miss T
Starling has acknowledged that it could have dealt with Miss Ts fraud claim better and it has 
given her £150 for delays, our Investigator thought this should be increased to £250.
Miss T has explained to this service the difficulties this fraud caused and the impact it had 
both financially and on her health. It is clear this was undoubtedly a very stressful and 
difficult time for Miss T, and while I recognise the fraudsters are the chief cause of the 
distress shes suffered, I agree that much of that could have been avoided had the bank 
acted sooner in both preventing the fraud and in reviewing her fraud claim in a more timely 
manner.
When thinking about this, I find that Starling should pay Miss T a further £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, on top of the £150 it has already paid.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, I think its fair and reasonable that Starling Bank Limited 
should now;
- Refund Miss T the remainder of the money she lost, less any money that it was 
able to recover. 
- Pay interest on this amount, at the savings account rate from which the funds 
originated, from the date of transactions to the date of settlement.
- Pay Miss T £100 compensation (in addition to the £150 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman