DRN-3683434
The complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera 
Financial Services, unfairly terminated his agreement . He would like to settle his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
I appreciate Mr C has told us he wanted to pay off his agreement and I understand 
his preference to do so. I  also accept it would be illogical for him to have continued 
to make payments had he known his account was closed. I think there was some 
confusion over the account which  BMWFS acknowledged, since in  its final response 
letter, it agreed Mr C should have been told it wasnt possible to continue to make 
payments. I dont think Mr C has been financially  disadvantaged by making the 
further payments since they reduced the  amount owing on the account.
But I cant agree BMWFS didnt make Mr C aware his account was going to be 
terminated. Ive seen  the  correspondence BMWFS sent Mr C including  several 
notices of sums in arrears letters, and importantly in July 2021 a default notice which 
was also sent to the company dealing with Mr Cs bankruptcy. The notice stated if the 
amount owing wasnt paid in full by 10 August 2021 the account would be terminated 
the implications of which were that , the vehicle would be  recovered, and a default 
recorded on Mr Cs credit file. BMWFSs correspondence appears to be correctly 
addressed so I dont know why Mr C didnt get it. But I am persuaded BMWFS made 
Mr C aware of his debt, the date for settling it,  and the implications of not doing so.
I have also seen the contract Mr C signed. This states that, in various situations 
including bankruptcy or failure to meet payments, BMWFS can end its agreement 
with Mr C. Both situations applied here. Additionally, I have no evidence to show that 
after the default  notice was sent in July 2021 that either Mr C or his representative 
contacted BMWFS to settle the outstanding debt. I appreciate Mr C has told us the 
third party dealing with the repossession told him he could settle the account. If it did 
so that was wrong. However ,whilst I think some of  the communication  with Mr C 
could have been better,  I dont think  BMWFS  did  anything wrong in terminating Mr 
Cs  agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman