DRN-3584202
The complaint
Miss B, Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain about their mortgage with TSB Bank plc trading as 
Whistletree.
What happened
Mr H1 and Mr H2 took out a mortgage with Northern Rock many years ago. Their mortgage 
was a Together mortgage, which meant that they borrowed both a mortgage and a 
separate unsecured loan. The two loans were over the same term and at the same interest 
rate. But it was a term of the unsecured loan that if they ever moved the main mortgage 
away without repaying the unsecured loan, the interest rate on the unsecured loan would 
increase.
When Northern Rock collapsed during the financial crisis, their mortgage was transferred to 
the nationalised successor company, known as NRAM.
Northern Rock stopped offering new interest rates to existing customers. And NRAM didnt 
offer new rates either. That meant that when their fixed rate expired in November 2011, 
Mr H1 and Mr H2s mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR).
In July 2016, their mortgage was transferred to TSB Bank plc. TSB ringfenced the 
mortgages it had bought from NRAM into a book, or section of its firm, called Whistletree.
This meant that TSB Bank plc had two groups of customers  those bought from NRAM, 
which Ill refer to as Whistletree customers, and those whose mortgages were taken on 
direct or were inherited following the split from Lloyds. Ill call this second group TSB 
customers.
It's important to note that the distinction between Whistletree customers and TSB customers 
arises from how TSB Bank plc has decided to manage its mortgage business internally. Both 
groups are customers of the same firm, TSB Bank plc. Whistletree customers are managed 
separately from other TSB Bank plc customers. But they are still customers of TSB Bank plc.
When the mortgage was first moved to TSB Bank plc, it did not offer new interest rates to 
Whistletree customers  even though new interest rates were available to existing TSB 
customers. In 2017, TSB Bank plc began to offer new interest rates to Whistletree 
customers. But these rates were generally higher than those offered to TSB customers, until 
TSB Bank plc harmonised its rate offering to both groups of customers in 2020.
Around the same time as the mortgage moved from NRAM to Whistletree, Mr H1 applied to 
remove Mr H2 and add his partner Miss B to the mortgage. This application completed in 
early 2017, and from then on the mortgage was in the name of Miss B and Mr H1 only. Just 
before the change completed, Miss B asked about moving the mortgage to a new interest 
rate, but was told none was available at that time.
In August 2018 Miss B and Mr H1 took a new interest rate on their mortgage. They took a 
five year fixed rate of 3.84%, with a fee of £299.
Miss B, Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained. They said that:
It wasnt fair that Whistletree didnt offer rates to existing customers when existing 
TSB customers could access new interest rates;
It wasnt fair that when Whistletree did start to offer rates, the rates it offered were 
less favourable than those offered to TSB customers, and less favourable than were 
available elsewhere in the market;
It wasnt fair that if they moved their mortgage elsewhere, the interest rate on the 
unsecured loan would increase  this meant that they were trapped with Whistletree 
and couldnt shop around to get a better rate with another lender.
All three are party to this complaint, since it covers events from July 2016 onwards  
including times when the mortgage was in the name of Mr H1 and Mr H2, and times when it 
was in the name of Miss B and Mr H1.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. He said that Miss B and Mr H1 
were unable to move their mortgage to another lender. He said that TSB Bank plc ought to 
have discovered that when they first enquired about a new rate. And he said that it wasnt 
fair that Miss B and Mr H1 first were refused a rate altogether, and then were offered a rate 
less favourable than that given to TSB customers. He said TSB Bank plc should rework the 
mortgage as if Miss B and Mr H1 had taken a five year rate in 2017, no less favourable than 
a rate that would have been offered to a TSB customer. It should refund the resulting 
overpayments, and should also pay Miss B and Mr H1 £200 compensation.:
The investigator did not recommend any redress be paid to Mr H2, since he had been 
removed from the mortgage just after Miss B enquired about new rates, and before any rate 
change would have taken effect. So he had not suffered any financial loss.
TSB Bank plc didnt agree with the investigator. It said it didnt think Miss B and Mr H1 had 
been treated unfairly, there was no obligation to offer them a rate or enquire into their 
circumstances, and they were not similar to TSB customers and therefore had not been 
treated unfavourably in comparison. However, it said that in recognition of how long the 
complaint had been going on and the impact on Miss B and Mr H1, it would agree to 
implement the redress recommended by the investigator as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss B and Mr H1 also didnt agree. They said the revised interest rate should apply from 
July 2016, when TSB Bank plc acquired their mortgage, not from 2017 when they asked 
about a rate. They said the redress should be applied to the unsecured loan as well as to the 
mortgage. And they wanted TSB Bank plc to refund the £299 product fee they paid in 2018. 
They also said they had just finally been able to move to another lender, and wanted TSB 
Bank plc to refund the early repayment charge (ERC) theyd paid too.
Our investigator agreed that the £299 product fee paid in 2018 should be added to the 
refund  since the redress was based on a fee free rate in 2017, Miss B and Mr H1 wouldnt 
have paid that. But he didnt agree that the ERC should be refunded since Miss B and Mr H1 
redeemed their mortgage before the 2018 rate expired, and before the 2017 rate he said 
should have been applied would have expired. So they would always have had to pay the 
ERC to move to another lender. And he still thought the rate should be backdated to 2017, 
not 2016.
As no agreement could be reached, the case came to me for a decision to be made.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive looked at the history of the mortgage, as recorded in Whistletrees contact notes. 
Around the time of the transfer to Whistletree, there was discussion about changing 
the mortgage by removing Mr H2 and adding Miss B. Theres no record of any 
discussion about changing the interest rate at the time of the application. However, 
Miss B did ask about a new rate on 15 February 2017, only to be told none was 
available to Whistletree customers.
In early 2018, Miss B called Whistletree because Mr H1 had lost his job. She asked 
about a payment holiday  which wasnt a feature of this mortgage  and about 
changing the payment due date to give Mr H1 more time to find a new job. No 
payments were missed. In June 2018, Miss B called again to ask whether it was 
possible to convert the mortgage to interest only. Whistletree said this wasnt 
possible, but suggested that Miss B look on its website to see if a new interest rate 
could be taken, as this would be another way of reducing the mortgage payments.
Following this discussion, Miss B and Mr H1 applied to Whistletree for a new interest 
rate, and the new rate was implemented from August 2018.
Miss B, Mr H1 and Mr H2 havent provided any documentary evidence that they 
asked for a rate sooner than the first mention of doing so in the contact notes, in 
February 2017. Miss B says that she recalls doing so  and while Ive taken that into 
account, Im not persuaded that there was an earlier attempt to apply. The contact 
notes are relatively detailed, and were compiled at the time, and the absence of a 
record of a discussion about the rate is therefore persuasive. I think the focus in 2016 
was on the transfer of the mortgage, not on the interest rate. And I think its likely that 
later recollections have become less reliable with the passage of time, and that in 
fact its the February 2017 discussion Miss B is remembering.
Im therefore satisfied that it was in February 2017 that Miss B and Mr H1 first 
discussed taking a new interest rate on their mortgage.
At that time, TSB Bank plc was not offering new interest rates to Whistletree 
customers, so it told Miss B and Mr H1 that there was nothing it could offer them.
In 2018, Miss B and Mr H1 were able to take a rate  but the rates available to them 
at that time were lower than those available to TSB customers.
In thinking about whether this was fair, Ive taken into account all the circumstances  
including the terms and conditions of the mortgage, as well as the regulators rules 
and guidance.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out that when the initial fixed rate expired in 
2011, the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR  as indeed it did. Theres 
nothing in the terms and conditions that entitled Mr H1 and Mr H2  as the borrowers 
at that time, later joined by Miss B replacing Mr H2  to a new interest rate. And 
theres nothing in the regulators guidance that says they must be offered a new rate 
either. To that extent, the mortgage has operated as it should. And its worth noting 
that, while the mortgage was with NRAM, no customers of NRAM were offered new 
interest rates.
However, thats not the end of the matter. Once the mortgage moved to TSB Bank 
plc, it was no longer with a closed lender (one that did not offer rates to any 
customers).TSB Bank plc did offer new rates to existing customers. But until 2017, it only offered 
rates to TSB  not Whistletree  customers. And between then and 2020, the rates 
offered to Whistletree customers were less favourable than those offered to TSB 
customers.
The regulators handbook for mortgages is known as MCOB. MCOB 11.8.1 E says 
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or 
vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan with the existing mortgage lender or home purchase plan provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with 
a new mortgage lender or home purchase plan provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase plan provider should not (for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer less favourably 
than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may 
be relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 (Customers 
interests).
Principle 6 says
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
11.8.1 has the suffix E  which means its an evidential provision, not a rule.
Nevertheless, it does show that in circumstances where a customer cannot change 
their existing mortgage or move to another lender, and is being treated less 
favourably than other customers of their existing lender with similar characteristics, 
that may result in unfairness.
Miss B and Mr H1 have shown that around the time of their applications in 2017 and 
2018 they were unable to move to another lender. Mr H1 wasnt in permanent 
employment. It seems from the contact notes that they had some financial difficulties 
at this time  though the mortgage never went into arrears. And theres evidence that 
they did try to move elsewhere  but due to issues with their property, they were 
unable to do so.
In 2017, when Miss B and Mr H1 first asked about a rate, a TSB customer with 
similar characteristics to them  an existing customer with no history of arrears and 
an acceptable loan to value  would have been offered a new interest rate. But 
Miss B and Mr H1 were turned away.
In 2018, they were offered a rate. But it was a less favourable interest rate than 
would have been offered to a similar TSB customer.
I dont think the fact that Miss B and Mr H1 were Whistletree customers means that 
they cant be said to have had similar characteristics to TSB customers. Both are 
customers of the same firm  and its at firm level that 11.8.1 E says the comparison 
is to be made. Nor does the fact that Miss B and Mr H1s mortgage originated with 
another lender make a difference, in my view. What matters is their characteristics at the time they made an application, not how their loan originated many years before.
Ive taken MCOB 11.8.1 E into account. While its not a rule, it does set out the sorts 
of situations the regulator considers could lead to unfairness. And in my view, Miss B 
and Mr H1 are in just such a situation.
In all the circumstances, I dont think TSB Bank plc treated Miss B and Mr H1 fairly 
when it refused their application for a new rate in February 2017. Had it understood 
that MCOB 11.8.1 E was relevant to their situation, it would  or, acting fairly, should 
 have made sure that they were treated no less favourably than similar TSB 
customers.
The same applies in 2018 too, when Miss B and Mr H1 were offered a rate, albeit 
one less favourable than a TSB rate. But given my finding about what should have 
happened in 2017, that falls away.
Theres a further matter Miss B and Mr H1 have complained about, to do with their 
linked unsecured Together loan. They say that the new interest rate didnt apply to 
that loan. And they say its unfair that if they ever move their mortgage elsewhere, 
without moving the unsecured loan, the interest rate would increase  making them 
feel trapped with their existing lender.
The mortgage offer makes clear that following the expiry of the initial fixed rate in 
2011, which applied to both the secured and unsecured elements, the interest rate 
on the unsecured loan would revert to the same rate  the SVR  as would apply to 
the main mortgage.
And if Miss B and Mr H1 ever took a new interest rate with their existing lender on the 
main mortgage, or moved it to another lender, the interest rate on the unsecured loan 
would increase to SVR + 8%.
My understanding is that, when this mortgage was first taken out before Northern 
Rocks collapse, it was expected that Northern Rock would continue to offer new 
Together mortgages  so Mr H1 and Mr H2 (as the borrowers were at the time) 
would be able to move both elements to a new combined Together product rather 
than just take a new rate on the main mortgage. And in that situation, the unsecured 
loan would be re-financed and so the 8% increase would not take effect.
Following Northern Rocks collapse, that option was no longer available. And for the 
same reasons as Ive given above on the question of whether NRAM should have 
offered a new fixed rate on the main mortgage, it wasnt unfair that it didnt offer new 
Together products either.
Once the mortgage moved to Whistletree, TSB Bank plc didnt offer Together 
products, or an equivalent. And so the main mortgage and the unsecured loan 
couldnt be moved together to a new product, since none was available.
In the circumstances, TSB Bank plc decided that it would offer new interest rates on 
the main mortgage. And while it wouldnt apply that rate to the unsecured loan  
since it didnt offer Together type products  it also chose not to apply the term that 
entitled it to increase the rate on the unsecured loan by 8% either. I think this was a 
reasonable position to take. It meant Miss B and Mr H1 could take a new rate on their 
mortgage without losing much of the benefit of doing so through an increase in the 
unsecured rate.As to whether the prospect of an 8% increase if they moved to another lender acted 
as an unfair barrier, the evidence suggests that it wouldnt have prevented Miss B 
and Mr H1 from moving their mortgage in 2017/18, since they were actively exploring 
doing so at this time, in the knowledge that doing so would trigger the increase.
And anything that happened after they redeemed their mortgage in 2021 is outside 
the scope of this complaint, which covers the period of the applications for new rates 
in 2017 and 2018. So Ill say no more about that here.
Putting things right
In my view, acting fairly, TSB Bank plc ought to have offered Miss B and Mr H1 a 
new interest rate no less favourable than it would have offered to a TSB customer in 
February 2017. It should therefore need to re-work their mortgage as if that had 
happened.
I dont agree with Miss B and Mr H1 that it should go further back than that, to 2016. 
Ive said above that I dont think they asked about a rate before February 2017. 
There was no obligation on TSB Bank plc to pro-actively contact customers and offer 
rates. The unfairness comes from how it responded when they did ask  in dealing 
with their application less favourably than one from a similar TSB customer  not 
from not inviting them to apply sooner than they did.
TSB Bank plc has provided calculations based on re-calculating Miss B and Mr H1s 
mortgage as if theyd taken a rate from 2017, similar to a rate offered to TSB 
customers at that time.
Miss B and Mr H1 think the calculations are wrong, and have produced their own. 
Ive looked carefully at both sets of figures, and Im satisfied that TSBs are more 
likely to be right. In their calculations Miss B and Mr H1 havent adjusted the rolling 
balance on which interest is charged based on the notional re-calculated monthly 
payments, using instead the actual monthly payments  which means the balance in 
their calculations reduces too quickly, magnifying the apparent overpayments.
In other words, they have calculated the total owed to them as if the overpayments 
were used to reduce the balance, and also as if the overpayments were to be 
refunded to them with 8% interest. But those are alternatives  both cannot be true. If 
the overpayment was to be refunded to Miss B and Mr H1, plus interest from the time 
it was made, then that overpayment is to be treated as if it had never been made 
(because of the refund)  and so cant also be used to reduce the balance used as 
the starting point for the next month.
And they havent factored in the payment deferral they took in 2020 either. So Im 
satisfied that the refunded overpayments which TSB Bank plc has already paid them 
was correct, and it doesnt need to do any more in this respect.
I agree with our investigator that TSB Bank plc should also refund the £299 product 
fee Miss B and Mr H1 paid in 2018  since if theyd been given a fair rate in 2017, 
they would never have taken the rate in 2018, and since the 2017 rate used for the 
re-work was fee-free.
Miss B and Mr H1 say that TSB Bank plc should also refund the ERC they paid when 
they redeemed their mortgage in 2021.
I dont agree about that, since if theyd taken a five year rate in 2017  as everyone accepts they would have done, and was used for the interest re-calculation  they 
would have been subject to an ERC until 2022. And so redeeming the mortgage in 
2021 would always have attracted an ERC.
However, I do think that Miss B and Mr H1 have overpaid the ERC. The rate they 
took in 2018 had a stepped ERC  that is, one that reduced year by year. It was 5% 
in the first year, reducing to 1% in the final year. Miss B and Mr H1 paid 2% of their 
mortgage balance as an ERC when they paid their mortgage back in 2021.
Had they been on the rate they should have been  a five year rate taken in 2017, 
not in 2018, they would have been closer to the end of the ERC period. The ERC 
would have been 1%, not 2%.
Im therefore satisfied that TSB should refund the additional ERC that Miss B and Mr 
H wouldnt have paid  being 1% of their mortgage balance at the date of 
redemption. This should be refunded to Miss B and Mr H1 only, since the ERC was 
not paid by Mr H2 following his removal from the mortgage balance. And the same is 
true of the refunded product fee. TSB now accepts this, and has I understand 
recently refunded that to Miss B and Mr H1.
Finally, our investigator recommended that TSB Bank plc pay £200 compensation, 
which it has already done. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances of this case.
The responses to my provisional decision
TSB reiterated that it did not agree with either the investigator or myself that it had treated 
Miss B and Mr H1 unfairly. However, it confirmed that its offer to resolve this complaint 
stood, and that it would also offer to refund the product fee and additional ERC. 
Miss B and Mr H1 did not make any further arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered what I said in my provisional decision again. Having done so, I see no 
reason to change my mind. For the reasons I gave, I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank plc trading as Whistletree to:
refund the additional interest Miss B and Mr H1 paid each month, adding simple 
annual interest of 8%* running from date of payment to date of refund;
re-calculate the ERC Miss B and Mr H1 paid on redeeming their mortgage as if it had 
been calculated in accordance with the 2017 rate not the 2018 rate; 
refund the difference in ERC to Miss B and Mr H1, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from the date the ERC was paid to date of refund; and refund the £299 product fee paid in 2018; adding either
ocompound mortgage interest to date of mortgage redemption and simple 
annual interest of 8%* thereafter  if the product fee was added to the 
mortgage balance; or
osimple annual interest of 8%* from the date the fee was paid to date of refund 
 if the product fee was paid up front.
pay Miss B and Mr H1 £200 compensation.
* In calculating the 8% interest elements of my award, TSB Bank plc may deduct income tax from 
this part of the award, as required by HMRC. But it should tell Miss B and Mr H1 what it has 
deducted so that they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they are entitled to do so.
I understand that TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree has now made the above payments. 
To the extent that it has not done so, it should.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B, Mr H1 and 
Mr H2 to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman