DRN-3501663
The complaint
Miss C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) damaged her car when replacing the 
windscreen under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C contacted UKI in late November 2021 to arrange for her car windscreen to be 
replaced. A couple of days later the replacement was carried out at her home. She says the 
technician told her to wait in the house while the work was being completed. When he had 
finished, she noticed damage to the paintwork on the drivers side of her car near the 
windscreen. She told the technician, who said the damage was there before he started work. 
Miss C says UKI has provided no proof the damage was pre-existing. She asks for an 
apology and for the damage to be repaired. 
UKI says the damage was noted by its technician during the pre-inspection check. It says 
this shows its not responsible for any repairs.
Miss C didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. She asked Miss C if she had any photos of her car taken before 
the windscreen was replaced. No photos were available. She thought the records completed 
by the technician were clear that the damage was pre-existing. This was noted prior to the 
windscreen replacement and evidenced by a time stamp. 
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for 
Miss C, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I dont doubt Miss Cs recollection that the damage wasnt present prior to the windscreen 
replacement. But I must base my decision on a fair and reasonable consideration of the 
evidence and testimony provided. 
There are no photos of the damage prior to the windscreen replacement to show whether 
this was present. I dont think the average person would think to take photos of their car prior 
to a windscreen replacement. So, its not surprising that photos arent available. 
We asked UKI if it had any photos taken prior to the windscreen replacement. It doesnt.   
UKI refers to the job sheet its technician completed to support that damage was noticed and 
recorded prior to the windscreen replacement. The records show the job sheet would usually 
require a signature, on the electronic device used by the technician. But due to the Covid 
pandemic the procedure at the time was not to ask for a signature. This is understandable in 
the circumstances at the time, but it does mean that Miss C wasnt asked to confirm that 
damage was present before work commenced. 
Ive read the job sheet. Ive also seen an extract from the technicians device that provides 
time stamps for the various tasks he had to complete. This includes a task entitled, Start 
Pre inspections, which has a timestamp for 10.09am. The next task is, Start Work, timed 
at 10.13am. It then shows Finish Work, which has a timestamp at 11.03am. The technician 
completes Start Post Inspections at 11.03am and the job is shown to have been completed 
at 11.07am. 
The job sheet includes a section that says, Job Inspection  Damage: The diagram(s) 
indicate damage identified during vehicle inspection prior to any work. 
The are two diagrams on the sheet. They show the outline of a car pictured from above and 
from the side. An area is circled in red, on both diagrams, that coincides with the damage 
Miss C reported. I have seen the damage on the photos she provided that show where it is 
situated on her car.
I asked UKI if the damage reported on the job inspection form couldve been added after the 
windscreen was replaced. As Miss C didnt sign the form to confirm pre-existing damage  I 
thought it was important to be clear on this point. In response UKI sent its, Technician 
Device Process which describes the steps followed by its technician. It says the technician 
has to follow each step, in order, as the device wont allow the job stage to progress unless 
this is done. 
Based on this information the damage must have been recorded on the technicians 
electronic device prior to the windscreen replacement.  
Having considered the records provided, along with the further explanation from UKI about 
its processes, Im satisfied the damage was pre-existing and noted before the windscreen 
was replaced. Based on this I dont think UKI behaved unfairly in not agreeing to the repairs. 
I dont dispute that Miss C had no recollection of the damage prior to the windscreen 
replacement. But based on this evidence I cant reasonably say that UKI should pay for the 
repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman