DRN-3446741
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2019, Mr T was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr T decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. Both Mr T and his 
wife, Mrs T, were parties to the loan agreement. The system was subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding and would pay for itself within two years; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
The CMC also said that Mr and Mrs Ts boiler had been old, and had had to be replaced a 
year after the sale, but the financial benefits derived from one of the systems optional extras 
 a boiler doctor  had been calculated on the basis that the boiler would last for 25 years. 
The CMC argued that the boiler should have been assessed, and its condition taken into 
account in the calculation.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view, and pointed out that the system would 
take 17 years to pay for itself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr T could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Mrs T has no right to claim against Shawbrook under section 75, because she didnt have a 
contract with P  the contract names P and Mr T as the only contracting parties. But as she 
signed the loan agreement, under section 56 Shawbrook is still responsible to her for 
whatever P told her at the point of sale. That is because section 56 says that any 
negotiations between Mr and Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been 
conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ts testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs T, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ts version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs T have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ts recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system and savings on their bills.
I think that this page is clear that Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £190.93, and the expected year one electricity savings are £273.63. These add 
up to £464.56. This results in an average monthly income of £38.71. Im satisfied that the 
same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £131.19. As a 
result, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs T were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
A later section of the quote titled Boiler Dr. states that this optional extra could add further 
savings of £67.20 in the first year. (It goes on to say that there will be a four year return on 
this investment, if this option is chosen.) Together with other optional extras, the grand total 
combined income and savings in year one is shown as £610.36. This is shown on a page 
called Your Savings Summary, which also gives the cash price of the system and states 
that the estimated payback time is 13 years (not including the finance charge).
This grand total works out as £50.86 a month, which is less than half of a monthly loan 
repayment.
Theres another section headed Your Agreement with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs T entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £131.19. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £132.85, but the difference  £1.66  is 
too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £131.19, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr 
and Mrs Ts version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.66 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr T, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
estimated performance of the system over 25 years. This shows that during year 13 the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the 
system, £11,104. (I think this is clear, since the first 12 years are highlighted in red, and 
subsequent years are in green.)
(The same table also shows (without highlighting) that the total amount payable under the 
loan agreement, £16,042, would be reached in year 17.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 13 years, and for the loan in about 17 years, as supported by the table above, 
which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied 
that this was what induced Mr T to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a 
loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the 
performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr T.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,175 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,990 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs T havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs T could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr T entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr T to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman