DRN-2706301
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) prevented him from making payments online 
during the pandemic. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr P tried to use his online banking app to pay some bills. However having 
tried several times, he wasnt able to due to the app not working. Because of this he says he 
had to ask a family member to pay some bills for him, and that he had to withdraw cash from 
a cash machine, when he should have been staying at home isolating. 
He complained to TSB and said they hadnt been able to provide him with full banking 
services during a national pandemic. He thought they should they pay him compensation.
 
TSB accepted that there were issues with the app for a short period on the day in question, 
but said they were resolved later the same day. They also explained that the desktop 
website had always been available during this time. When looking at Mr Ps account, they 
couldnt see that any transactions had been made on that day, only that a credit had been 
applied. They also couldnt see that any cash machine withdrawals had been made either.
 
They apologised for the frustration caused but didnt feel the issue warranted a 
compensation payment. They said that if Mr P had incurred any expenses as a result of the 
app being unavailable, he could send evidence of them and they would be reviewed. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that TSB had acted fairly. She acknowledged that while it 
would have been frustrating for Mr P when he couldnt use his preferred method of banking, 
there were other options available to him - such as telephone or internet banking through the 
website. Having looked at Mr Ps statements, she also couldnt see that any cash machine 
withdrawal had been made. So she didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P disagreed. He said he had been paid compensation for the same issue before and so 
asked that TSB pay him £100. He also explained that he didnt have online banking and so 
wasnt able to use the website to make his payments.
Our investigator looked into these points, but her view remained the same. She explained 
that while compensation may have been paid before, at our service we must look at every 
case based on its individual merits.  Mr P still disagreed and so the case has been passed to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will explain 
why.
 
The terms of Mr Ps account state that there will be occasions where a customer may not be 
able to access their accounts online. They say: 
Our responsibilities to you.
 
If we break these terms and conditions, were responsible for anything you lose as a result. 
But there are some exceptions to this:
 
Were not responsible for losses caused during periods of maintenance or where 
theres a disruption to your services. This is because you should be able to give us 
instructions in other ways, like calling us or popping into one of our branches. 
I appreciate it may not have been appropriate for Mr P to visit a branch due to the current 
pandemic. But the terms make it clear that TSB arent responsible for any loss, should there 
be any disruption to the service. And in any event, Im not sure there is a loss here. 
While I note that not being able to use his banking app would have been inconvenient for 
Mr P, TSB have confirmed that the desktop website was working fine, meaning he could 
have used that instead. I can see Mr P has said he didnt have access to online banking. But 
TSB have said that he did. And they have provided screen shots showing this. So Im 
satisfied he could have used this instead of the app.
 
When thinking about whether Mr P has lost anything, he said that he needed to ask a family 
member to pay bills for him, and so needed to visit a cash machine to withdraw money so he 
could pay them back. But having looked through Mr Ps statements, there is no record that a 
cash machine withdrawal was made on that day, or in the days following. 
In relation to the compensation that has been awarded in the past for similar issues, I must 
base my decision on the specific circumstances of each case. And in this case, I dont feel 
TSB should have to pay Mr P any compensation. I say this because even though he couldnt 
use his banking app, there were other options available to him.
 
TSB have said that if Mr P incurred any expenses they would review them. And I think this is 
fair. Because of this, I wont be asking TSB to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman