DRN-4059899
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt treated Mr H fairly in relation to a 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Because Mr H is leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout. Any reference to 
Aviva includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
In August 2022, an Ombudsman issued a final decision on a previous complaint Mr H 
had brought to this Service. They upheld the complaint in part and directed Aviva to 
pay Mr H compensation of £200 in recognition of its failure to follow a fair process 
when removing phone contact. The decision said this must be paid within 28 days of 
Mr Hs acceptance of it. 
Mr H subsequently complained to Aviva, saying it hadnt complied with the final 
decision because it hadnt paid the compensation as directed by the Ombudsman 
and it hadnt made reasonable adjustments in line with the decision. Mr H also said 
Aviva hadnt replied to his emails within its five-day service level timeframe. 
In its final response, Aviva said the compensation had been paid in September 2022 
and prior to the deadline given in the decision for Mr H to accept it. It added the 
Ombudsman had suggested  not directed  Aviva to start a conversation with Mr H, 
in writing, about how it could accommodate his medical conditions in its written 
communication going forwards. It said it had done this but accepted it was not to       
Mr Hs satisfaction.  
Unhappy, Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered what happened and said Aviva had acted reasonably by 
appointing two points of contact who would respond to written correspondence about 
Mr Hs claims and review whether reasonable adjustments were required. She added 
that the Ombudsman hadnt made a direction as to how the adjustments should be 
carried out. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Mr H has told this Service he is no longer disputing that Aviva paid the compensation 
in line with the previous Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Aviva has treated Mr H fairly in how its said itll 
communicate with him in writing about his claims, going forwards.
Mr H has said the previous Ombudsman directed Aviva to make adjustments 
because of his medical conditions, but I dont agree. The Ombudsman didnt make a 
direction as to how Aviva should communicate with or manage Mr Hs claims going 
forward, rather she suggested that Aviva start a conversation with Mr H  in writing  
about how it can accommodate this in its written communication going forward.  
So, my decision isnt about whether Aviva has complied with a previous final decision 
but rather whether Aviva has treated Mr H fairly in how its said itll communicate with 
him in light of his medical conditions and the agreement that communication will be in 
writing. 
Ive seen Aviva started a dialogue with Mr H about this and said itll appoint two 
contacts who will oversee his claims and respond to written correspondence. It said 
appointing two contacts means theres suitable resource to deal with the 
correspondence and lessens the likelihood of Mr H being impacted if one point of 
contact was absent. And I consider that to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im also satisfied Aviva has sufficiently explained why it didnt accommodate Mr Hs 
request to have a particular staff member appointed as he had requested.  
Its also apologised for any instances in which it didnt reply to Mr H within its service 
level agreement timeframes. I consider this  along with Aviva putting measures in 
place  namely two points of contact to respond to emails  to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr H strongly feels the chosen points of contact arent suitable, but Im 
satisfied Avivas decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstance and takes into 
account his particular situation and needs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied Aviva has treated Mr H 
fairly and reasonably. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman