DRN-2646899
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to close a joint account to which 
she was a party when she asked it to.
What happened
Miss B had a joint account with Nationwide. Ill refer to the joint account holder as Mr X. Mr 
X hasnt been joined as a party to this complaint.
Miss B says she notified Nationwide about a dispute on the account in March 2018. After 
that notification was made, no withdrawals could be made from the account without 
consent from both account holders. Miss B says she subsequently agreed with Mr X that 
the account should be closed. She, and Mr X, attended a branch of Nationwide on 21 
November 2018. They completed all of the necessary documentation to close the account. 
Mr X agreed he would continue with the account in his sole name. Miss B was aware of 
this. And, Nationwide confirmed to Miss B that her name had been removed from the 
account.
Miss B says she later discovered her name had not been removed from the account and 
she remained a joint account holder. She complained about this to Nationwide. She thought 
she was entitled to half of the balance held in the account on the date when she and Mr X 
had subsequently separated in March 2019.
Nationwide looked into her complaint. It said it hadnt removed her name from the joint 
account because the form shed signed hadnt been dated. It said it had sent a letter about 
this, but it hadnt received any reply. It said it couldnt get involved in how the funds in the 
account had been used as this was a civil matter. It didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss B referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into her complaint.
Our investigator said hed spoken to Miss B and shed told him, shed agreed with Mr X, 
after November 2018, that monies could be paid into the account. She said she was 
entitled to 50% of these monies as they were rental proceeds from jointly owned property. 
But shed agreed to these monies being paid into the account, which she believed was in 
Mr Xs sole name, because hed agreed to pay certain outgoings for the property. He 
hadnt done that.
Our investigator thought that because Miss B had agreed to the monies being paid into an 
account, which she believed was in Mr Xs sole name, Nationwide shouldnt be required to 
pay these monies to her. But he thought Miss B had experienced distress and 
inconvenience because of errors which Nationwide had made.
He said Nationwide had made an error when it hadnt removed Miss Bs name from the 
account. He thought Nationwide shouldve spotted the fact that the form hadnt been 
dated, on the day when Miss B and Mr X had attended the branch. He also thought the 
account shouldve been put back on dispute when the form for the removal of Miss Bs 
name couldnt be processed. If that had happened, then the matter might have been 
brought to Miss Bs attention earlier. So, he upheld this part of Miss Bs complaint and said 
Nationwide should pay her £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Nationwide said it agreed Miss B was not entitled to 50% of the money in the account. But it 
didnt agree shed experienced any loss, distress or inconvenience because of what had 
happened. It said Miss B believed shed been removed from the account in November 2018. 
So, after that date, she shouldnt have needed to prevent withdrawals from the account.
Nationwide acknowledged that if it had placed the account back in dispute she wouldve 
been alerted earlier to the fact that the account was still joint. But it said any distress shed 
experienced was because she says, if shed known it was still joint, she wouldve accessed 
the funds in the account.
Miss B also didnt agree with what our investigator said. She thought she was entitled to 
50% of the funds in the account. She says if shed known the account was still joint, she 
couldve accessed all of the money in the account. She couldnt do that because 
Nationwide had taken the debit card from her in November 2018. She also thought that 
£200 was not enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced.
Because Miss B and Nationwide disagreed with what our investigator said, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that although Mr X hasnt been joined in this 
complaint, Im satisfied our service can still consider the complaint. I say this 
because Miss Bs complaint was about how Nationwides actions impacted her, 
after shed asked it to remove her name from the account.
There is no dispute that Miss B and Mr X asked Nationwide on 21 November 
2018 to remove Miss Bs name from the account. Miss B believed that had 
happened. So, any actions Miss B took after that date were made on the basis 
that she believed she was not a party to this account, and it was in Mr Xs sole 
name.
Miss B did take certain actions after 21 November 2018. She agreed that monies 
to which she was jointly entitled should be paid into the account.
I can see that on 21 November 2018, the balance in the account was reduced to 
zero. Monies were paid into the account after that date. The last credit was in 
February 2019. Miss B says that had she known the account was a joint account 
she wouldve removed at least 50% of these monies from the account when she 
realised that Mr X hadnt spent the monies in the way that had been agreed. 
When she did become aware that the account was still a joint account most of 
the funds had been withdrawn.
Ive thought about what Miss B has said here. It is the case that she mistakenly 
believed the account was no longer a joint account. But that doesnt change the fact she agreed with Mr X, monies should be paid into an account which, as far 
as she was concerned, was in Mr Xs sole name. At that point it was her intention 
to give sole control of those funds to Mr X. So, I agree with our investigator that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to put her into the position 
she wouldve been in if she hadnt made that decision. And, I dont agree with 
Miss B that Nationwide should pay her 50% of the balance in the account at the 
date when she separated from Mr X in March 2019.
Ive then thought about the actions which Nationwide took after 21 November 
2018. Our investigator has correctly pointed out that Nationwide didnt do 
everything we wouldve expected it to do. I agree that it shouldve spotted the 
error on the form which Miss B signed in November 2018 and it shouldve 
checked whether the account should be put back in dispute when it couldnt 
process that form.
When errors of this nature are made, its not our role to fine or punish the 
business. Our role is to consider whether Nationwide did enough to try to put 
things right.
In this case, I can see that Nationwide wrote to Miss B and Mr X to tell them 
about the error on the form. It did that a few days after theyd attended the 
branch. This letter was addressed to both of them but was sent to Mr Xs 
address. Miss B says she was no longer living there. Nationwide says it sent this 
letter to the address which was registered on its systems. And, it says it didnt 
have a separate address for Miss B.
I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it decided to send the letter to 
the address on its records. But it was aware the account had been in dispute up 
until the date when the form was signed. So, I think it wouldve been prudent to 
have marked the account as still in dispute.
If Nationwide had done that then, I agree, Miss B wouldve known sooner that 
the form hadnt been processed because it wasnt dated. And, her name 
wouldve probably been removed from the account much earlier, in line with the 
instruction shed given on 21 November 2018. But, as mentioned above, I dont 
think that wouldve changed her subsequent decision to allow funds to be put 
into an account, which she believed was held in Mr Xs sole name.
Miss B didnt know anything about what had happened until 2019 when the 
agent for the jointly owned property pointed this out to her. Miss B says the agent 
always checked with her what account she wanted the rental payments to be 
paid into. It was the agent who told her Mr X had provided information showing 
that the Nationwide account was still a joint account. So, I dont think Miss B 
experienced any distress or inconvenience in the period prior to the date when 
this was pointed out to her.
When Miss B attended Nationwides branch and raised the issue Nationwide 
apologised to her. It also agreed to close the account. I can see that the account 
was closed on 8 May 2019. I think these actions were fair and reasonable.
Miss B says that part of the distress she experienced was because the booking 
agent wouldve thought she was lying about not having a joint account. Miss B 
told our investigator she asked Nationwide to provide her with a letter setting out 
the sequence of events. She says she wanted this so that she could show the booking agent she hadnt been lying. I can see Nationwide provided her with a 
letter setting out the sequence of events.
So, having considered everything here, I think Nationwide has acted fairly and 
reasonably when trying to resolve the complaint and I dont expect it to have to do 
anything more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Miss B asked for a copy of the closure form shed signed on 21 November 2018. Nationwide 
provided a redacted copy of this form. It didnt make any comments about the provisional 
decision.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision. She made the following points:
Nationwide knew the date the form was completed in the branch and shouldnt have 
required anything further. At that date both Miss B and Mr X made it clear that they 
both wanted to close the account and theyd both attended the branch willingly;
When Nationwide removed Miss Bs debit card on 21 November 2018, it had 
disadvantaged her in that she could no longer access the account;
Nationwide had redacted parts of the closure form and hasnt provided a full copy;
Nationwide shouldve contacted Miss B about the problem with the form. It had her 
address; and
This had caused her significant stress.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, and as Miss B has confirmed in her response to it, her 
intention when she and Mr X visited the branch and completed the form to remove her as an 
account holder, was clear. She wanted to be removed from the joint account. Nationwide 
didnt remove her from the joint account because it said the form hadnt been properly 
completed. But that doesnt change the fact that it was her intention to be removed and she 
believed, from 21 November 2018, she had been removed from the account.
It is also the case that, without anything having altered her belief that she was no longer a 
party to the account, she agreed that certain monies should be paid into that account. So, 
when she did that, it was her intention that those monies should be placed under the sole 
control and ownership of Mr X. 
Miss B doesnt accept that there shouldve been any issue with the form. She thinks 
Nationwide ought to have processed it on 21 November 2018. In my provisional decision, I 
agreed that it shouldve processed the form on this date. 
Miss B also thinks it shouldnt have redacted parts of the form. And she says Nationwide 
shouldve written separately to her about the issue with the form. 
In my provisional decision I commented on the fact that Nationwide had sent the form to Mr 
Xs address. But my view was that even if it had sent the form to Miss Bs address too, that wouldve meant the query Nationwide had raised about the date wouldve been resolved 
sooner. And Miss B wouldnt have been a party to the account after that date. I also didnt 
think this wouldve changed her decision to subsequently pay monies into the account. 
When shed done that she believed it was in Mr Xs sole name.
Ive also thought about what Miss B has said about the redactions on the form which 
Nationwide has supplied. It has provided a copy of the declaration which was signed by both 
Miss B and Mr X. This declaration makes clear what they agreed to. Mr X agreed to take 
sole responsibility for the account and Miss B said she wished to be removed from the 
account and confirmed shed returned her card and cheque book to Nationwide.  It also 
included details of the branch official whod checked the form and the date this had been 
actioned. So, I think this extract does provide sufficient information about what had been 
agreed and the date it had taken place.
Having considered the points raised by Miss B, they dont change the fact that after 21 
November 2018 Miss B didnt want to be a party to the joint account and she believed she 
was no longer a party to the joint account. She agreed that monies should be credited to the 
account  at a time when she believed she was no longer a party to the account. And, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to require Nationwide to put her into the position she 
wouldve been in if she hadnt made that decision. So, I remain of the view that Nationwide 
shouldnt have to pay her 50% of the balance in the account at the date when she separated 
from Mr X.
I understand what Miss B has said about how upset shes been because of what happened 
here. She found out subsequently that she was still a party to the joint account, and she says 
if shed known that, she couldve sought to withdraw funds from the account after Mr X failed 
to use the monies in the account in the way that she says hed agreed to. Im sorry to hear 
how this made her feel and about the stress she says shes experienced as a result of what 
happened. 
I have to consider whether Nationwides actions caused the distress Miss B experienced.
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if Nationwide had processed the form Miss B 
and Mr X completed on 21 November 2018. If that had happened, Miss B wouldve been 
removed from the account on that date. But that also means she wouldnt have been in a 
different position to the one she found herself in some months later. She wouldnt have been 
able to withdraw funds from the account if the form had been processed. And, I dont think it 
wouldve changed her decision to pay monies into an account over which she believed Mr X 
had sole ownership and control. 
I appreciate Miss B says if shed known the form hadnt been processed, she mightve tried 
to access the funds in the account. That wouldve required her to withdraw the instruction 
shed already given to Nationwide in November 2018. But shes remained adamant 
throughout her complaint that Nationwide shouldve acted on that instruction at that time. If it 
had done that she wouldve been removed from the account and she wouldnt have been 
able to access the account at the time she says she wanted to  which was March 2019. 
So, although I know this will disappoint Miss B, I havent changed my view that it isnt fair or 
reasonable to hold Nationwide responsible for what happened after she made a decision to 
put monies into an account she believed was under the sole control and ownership of Mr X. 
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
that, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, this complaint should not be upheld.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman