DRN-4398516
The complaint
V has complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited has handled its claim under its 
buildings insurance policy. 
V is represented by Mr K. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ageas hasnt provided any compelling evidence to show that the outstanding work 
required to Vs property wasnt as a result of the flood that occurred. Therefore, I agree 
with our investigator that Ageas should reimburse what V paid to have it completed, plus 
interest.
I think the delay in this work being completed was due to poor claim handling by Ageas 
and its loss adjuster and this left V with no choice but to charge its tenant a reduced rent. 
So, I think Ageas should cover this shortfall. It should also pay interest on this reduction 
because it is a loss of income to V and it needs to be compensated for this. 
I agree Ageass poor handling caused V inconvenience and that the £250 it has offered 
in compensation for this is fair. This is in addition to the £250 in compensation Ageas 
appears to have paid following its final response letter in February 2022.
I appreciate Mr K has suffered distress and inconvenience personally, but I cannot make 
an award for this, as the complainant in this case is V. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Vs complaint about Ageas and make 
them do the following:
Reimburse what V paid to have the repairs completed to its property, subject to V 
providing a copy of the invoices for this. This includes all building/redecoration work and 
the work V had carried out by an electrician. 
Pay interest on the amount due for this work at 8% per annum simple1 from the date V 
paid the invoice to the date of payment. 
Pay V loss of rent of £200 per month from the date of Ageas last payment for this, to the 
date Mr K paid his contractor to complete the works to his property. Ageas must also pay 
interest on each £200 payment at 8% per annum simple from the date V received each 
reduced rental payment in this period to the date of actual payment. 
Pay V £250 in compensation for inconvenience. This is based on what it offered as 
additional compensation in November 2022. So if it has paid any part of this, it can 
deduct it. 
My final decision
I uphold Vs complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited and order it to do what Ive set out 
above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Ageas must tell V if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much its 
taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for V if asked to do so. This will 
allow V to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.