DRN-4513870
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Estate Capital Financial Management Limited 
(Estate) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss. He says it has also caused him some stress and anxiety. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr S employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr S approached Estate in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. It 
was noted that he was concerned about the overall situation with his employer and the DB 
scheme, and the possibility of his pension moving to the PPF.  
Estate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr S circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was aged 53 and married, his wife was aged 46. They were both in 
good health and employed. They had no dependent children (they were older). They both 
had savings and investments worth about £85,000. Estate also carried out an assessment of 
Mr S attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. 
In respect of Mr S pension arrangements, he had received a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from the BSPS in September 2017. This showed that he had around 36 and a half 
years service. He was entitled to a pension of about £20,500 at the date of leaving the 
scheme.  The CETV was about £530,000. Mr S had also joined his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. He was contributing 10% of his salary into this and his employer 
was also contributing 10%.
On 22 November 2017, Estate advised Mr S to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in line with his attitude to risk. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that Mr S had concerns about the stability and future 
of both his employer and the BSPS, so he wanted to take control of his pension fund. He 
thought the spouses pension was better under the personal pension and he was attracted 
by the flexibility of the personal pension and the ability to retire early. 
Mr S complained in 2022 to Estate about the suitability of the transfer advice. He thought 
that the advice he received wasnt suitable for him. 
Estate didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said, in summary, that the returns he needed from 
the personal pension were likely to be achievable. And Mr S wasnt worse off due to the 
advice. But he had his own reasons to transfer, such as improved flexibility and death 
benefits. And he had the opportunity to retire when he wanted to. So, the transfer wasnt 
unsuitable for him. 
Mr S referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Estate pay compensation. The Investigator said that in 
summary the transfer didnt represent value for money and that Mr S was likely to be 
financially worse off in retirement. His objectives were not strong enough to warrant this 
reduction in retirement benefits. 
Our Investigator recommended that Estate calculate and pay any compensation that Mr S 
was due from the DB transfer and £250 for any distress and inconvenience he may have 
suffered due to the advice. 
Estate disagreed, saying that the advice was suitable for Mr S and the Investigator had 
relied disproportionally on critical yield analysis. And that the uncertainty that he was facing, 
his wish to improve on the death benefits and his desire to cut ties with his employer and the 
scheme, were largely ignored. The transfer has met his needs given his ill health and his 
desire to see his family who live abroad.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. And Mr S representative said 
that the notional 15% reduction to the redress in relation to the tax-free cash wasnt 
reasonable. It thought this should be calculated after fees and charges had been taken from 
the fund. And made some further comment on the proposed compensation and the changes 
the FCA was making to this. Because there wasnt agreement both parties were informed 
that the complaint would be considered by an ombudsman in due course. 
However, in December 2022, Estate Capital said that whilst it still disputed the substance of 
the Investigators opinion it had performed a loss assessment using the regulators current 
methodology of the time which was given under the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) 
guidance note FG17/9. This showed that Mr S hadnt suffered a loss. Despite this it offered 
£1,000 as a goodwill gesture to settle the complaint. 
Our Investigator, and Mr S representative, considered the calculation but it was noted that it 
wasnt performed entirely correctly as it used the PPF as a comparator and assumed that 
Mr S was retired at 57, which he hadnt done. Mr S wanted to use the new loss assessment 
basis, given in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 which would come into effect in April 
2023. Estate went on to amend the calculation on this basis, but this also didnt show that 
Mr S had suffered a loss. 
And after this the regulator developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. Both parties to the complaint were informed that an Ombudsman was likely to 
award compensation based on this.
Estate then contacted the Financial Ombudsman and said that it was prepared to not 
disagree with the Investigators opinion that the advice wasnt suitable for Mr S. And it would go on to calculate the loss using the BSPS-specific redress calculator. It wanted to do this to 
bring the matter to a close. 
Mr S representative didnt agree with this course of action and indicated that it would still 
request that an ombudsman consider the complaint. It said that Mr S was put under severe 
stress by the advice and the uncertainty around his retirement that he now faces. 
Nevertheless, Estate decided to proceed with a calculation using the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. It completed a loss assessment using the new calculator, but this also showed 
that Mr S hadnt suffered a loss. Estate again made a goodwill gesture of £1,000, but said 
this would be withdrawn if the case was considered by an ombudsman. 
Our Investigator considered the calculation and wrote to all the parties to the complaint to 
say that it had been performed correctly. And that Estates offer of £1,000 was still available 
at this time. But Mr S representative confirmed that Mr S wanted an ombudsman to consider 
the complaint. 
In particular Mr S wanted the level of distress and inconvenience looked at. He felt that the 
advice was poor and that he was coerced into the transfer. Mr S representative said the 
impact of advice was high and had caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience. 
He feels that the transfer has greatly affected his future and led to sleepless nights and a 
lack of financial security. It has made an existing health condition worse. 
Estate has now withdrawn its offer to pay Mr S £1,000 as a goodwill gesture. 
So, as this complaint isnt resolved, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Estate 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Estate has recently informed us that it is willing to accept the Investigators view, to bring this 
matter to a close. But Mr S representative has asked that an ombudsman consider whether 
the redress method agreed so far is appropriate and if the compensation our Investigator 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience that Mr S has suffered is reasonable. As 
the suitability of the advice is not in dispute any longer, I will focus in this decision on the 
redress method.Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr S back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Estate carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much Mr S 
needs in his pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement benefits that they 
would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to reflect the 
subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in Mr S pension arrangement to match 
the BSPS benefits he would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to Mr S. If the 
calculation shows there is enough money in Mr S pension arrangement, then no redress is 
due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Estate which are personal to Mr S. These 
include Mr S personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
I've thought about Mr S representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr S would've paid had this been taken as 
income. But Im not fully addressing this here as the calculation hasnt included a deduction 
for this (as it has not shown a loss). 
The calculation in Mr S case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr S 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension. I think the calculation carried out 
by Estate is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress for financial losses is due to 
Mr S. 
Mr S received advice from Estate in November 2017. He first complained about that advice 
in early 2022. I havent seen anything that suggests the advice caused him ongoing distress 
during that period. There are contact notes and update that show that Mr S was generally 
happy with the advice. The first indication he potentially had any concern about the advice 
seems to have been when he made his complaint. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude he 
was caused ongoing distress by the advice from the point it was given to when he made a 
complaint. Nor can I see that he has been caused any inconvenience  administrative or 
other  in that period, resulting from the advice.I acknowledge that Mr S then raised a complaint. But his representative has handled the 
complaint on his behalf since it was first made. So, this doesnt appear to have 
inconvenienced him. And I wouldnt usually make an award just for someone having to go to 
the effort of making a complaint - because things do go wrong from time to time and its 
reasonable to expect that they will need to be put right. And I dont think itd be fair to do so 
here. 
Since discussing this with his representative and lodging a complaint, Mr S might potentially 
have been worried by the thought of the advice he received having been unsuitable for him. 
The advice related to his pension, which is important to his longer-term financial planning. 
But in December 2022 Estate did a loss assessment calculation that showed he hadnt 
suffered a loss. Which should have alleviated this concern somewhat. 
I dont doubt, given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he asked for advice, 
thinking that it may have been wrong may have caused him some concern. Which is likely in 
my view to have been more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might 
reasonably expect from day-to-day life. But this would have been in part due to the situation 
with his employer and the DB scheme. 
And whilst I note that Mr S has a health condition which can effect his day to day life I dont 
really have enough here to say that the advice given by Estate made this worse. This is not 
to doubt what Mr S may have said. its more that there isnt any certainty around this. 
Most people do feel strongly about a situation where they think a professional has given poor 
advice or service. But my role is not to fine or punish Estate. I dont doubt that Mr S has 
potentially been worried that he mightve received unsuitable advice, the calculation Estate 
has carried out should reassure him that he has not suffered a loss. And this was done at a 
relatively early point in the complaint process 
And having taken all of this into consideration, while I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, I think the award of £250 recommended by the Investigator, which 
Estate has agreed to pay, is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Estate Capital Financial Management Limited to pay Mr 
S a sum of £250 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman