DRN-3799076
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Paragon Bank Plc didnt vary the interest rate on her savings account 
to keep it in line with the Bank of England rate.
Mrs Fs complaint is brought to us by a representative. Any reference to Mrs F in my 
decision includes submissions made by her representative.
What happened
Mrs F opened her 120-day notice account with Paragon around July last year. Her account 
was set up at a variable interest rate and, at the time of opening, the rate was set at 1.74%. 
In August, Paragon launched a new account that had similar features to Mrs Fs account, 
and this was launched with an interest rate of 2.15%. Mrs F complained that the bank didnt 
increase the interest rate on her account, so that it was in line with the Bank of Englands 
rate. 
In its response, Paragon explained that the new account was available for new and existing 
customers, so Mrs F could take advantage of the new account if she wanted to. The bank 
added that it had acted in line with the relevant rules. 
Mrs F remained unhappy and asked for an independent review by this service. She says the 
interest rate on her account isnt truly variable because of the 120-day notice period Paragon 
has put in place. Mrs F also suggests the bank hasnt lived up to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) requirement that Paragon treats customers fairly. As a resolution, Mrs F 
wants a total of £100, which she says covers her loss of interest earnings with compensation 
added. 
Our investigator concluded that Paragon had acted fairly and in line with the terms of Mrs Fs 
account. Mrs F didnt agree  she feels the bank is using the terms of her account to avoid 
increasing the interest rate. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final say. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out my remit first. Its not for me to provide instructions on how 
Paragon should conduct its banking services. Thats something only Paragon can do  and 
its for the FCA to determine whether the bank is acting in accordance with relevant rules. 
My role is to decide on the merits of this case and reach a finding on whether Paragon has 
treated Mrs F fairly.
Having done so, my decision is that Paragon has acted fairly. I know Mrs F will be 
disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
Paragons terms explain that the interest rate on Mrs Fs account is variable, and it is a rate 
set by the bank. Despite what Mrs F says, I think the terms make this point clear. Theres 
nothing that Ive seen in the account related literature suggesting the interest rate will be 
kept in line with the Bank of England rate. So I cant agree that Paragon had an obligation to 
administer the account in this way. It seems to me that its up to Paragon to decide what rate 
it sets on this account, which I dont think is unreasonable. So I dont find that the bank did 
something wrong by not raising the interest rate on Mrs Fs account, to bring it in line with 
the Bank of England rate change.
Mrs F thinks its unfair that Paragon introduced a new similar account around the time with a 
higher interest rate. As I said earlier, its up to Paragon to decide how it conducts its banking 
services, so it isnt unreasonable for it to introduce new products to allow it to offer 
competitive savings options for its customers. 
Paragon says Mrs F couldve taken advantage of this new account  although this was 
subject to the notice period on her account, I cant see that Mrs F was unfairly 
disadvantaged, as this is what she agreed to when she opened her account. Its unfortunate 
that the timing of this meant that shed missed out on the interest earnings of the new 
account by a matter of a few weeks. But I cant fairly say that this loss is because of 
something Paragon did wrong.  
Mrs F says that Paragon recently increased the interest rate on her account and believes 
this is due to the ongoing complaint. But I can see from the banks website that the rate was 
increased for the type of account Mrs F holds, and this seems to apply to all customers. So I 
dont find that this is an indication that something went wrong that Paragon is now putting 
right. 
For these reasons, Ive decided that Paragon acted fairly in the way it varied the interest rate 
on Mrs Fs account and Im of the opinion that it presented the relevant terms clearly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman