DRN-3374801
The complaint
Mr Y complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
has unfairly handled a subsidence claim he made under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr Y or NFU includes any representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known, so Ive summarised events.
In September 2019 Mr Y made a claim for subsidence on his NFU policy. He is a 
landlord of this property and had a tenant in situ at the time of the claim. 
NFU carried out investigations and by January 2020 it said it had established the 
cause of the damage to be subsidence caused by nearby vegetation. It carried out 
temporary repairs to the property, removed the offending vegetation, and proposed 
monitoring the property until June 2020 to check if the site had stabilised.
In March 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions came into force. Mr Y 
says he agreed to place his subsidence claim on hold with NFU at this time as it 
hadnt put appropriate measures in place to keep the tenant safe.
Mr Y also reported issues with the propertys flat roof. NFU considered this and 
declined the damage as it said it was due to wear and tear. Following some back and 
forth it sought a second opinion which agreed the damage was gradual. I understand 
Mr Y now accepts the flat roof isnt covered, but he said it took too long for it to 
decline the roof claim. And if it done so sooner, he couldve had it repaired himself.
Mr Y brought his complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
what happened and didnt uphold it. She said:
oNFU hadnt caused unnecessary delays and had acted fairly when pausing 
the progression of the claim when it did. She also said it appeared to have put 
appropriate measures in place, and left Mr Y aware he could get in touch 
when he and his tenant felt comfortable  which they did in June 2020.
oThere were some frustrations around communication and correspondence but 
NFU was proactive in putting this right. And dealing with multiple businesses 
may have been frustrating but was necessary in a claim of this nature.
oThere were conflicting versions of events between parties as to whether an 
issue with the roof was declared in December 2019 or June 2020. The 
Investigator said the reports and photos from the December 2019 visit didnt 
reflect any water damage to the kitchen as hed said. So, she felt on balance 
it was fair to say NFU hadnt become aware of the issue until later. 
Mr Y disagreed and said the view ignored the facts. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Subsidence claim handling
Mr Ys claim was put on hold as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. From what Ive 
seen, he agreed to this at the time in the interest of his tenants health. And when the 
parties felt safe/comfortable to progress, they were told to contact NFU and the claim 
would proceed  which is what happened. 
In hindsight, Mr Y may feel NFU didnt have sufficient measures or protections in 
place, but Im not persuaded this concern is supported by the evidence. And in the 
challenging circumstances it seems NFU acted in the wellbeing of the tenant in mind. 
I dont think it would be fair in these circumstances to hold NFU responsible for 
delays caused by government restrictions.
Having looked through the history of the claim I can also see the were issues with 
NFUs handling in places. At times NFU contacted Mr Ys tenant instead of him, as 
well as some communication issues. But these arent issues that Id look to 
compensate Mr Y for as Im not persuaded their impact justifies it. And largely, NFU 
has progressed the claim in a timely manner for a claim of this nature. So, Im not 
upholding this complaint on this point.
The flat roof claim
The background of the disagreement of when this was reported has been outlined 
above and detailed by our Investigator previously. So, I wont go over these points 
again. But having reviewed everything, I accept Mr Y may have raised concerns 
about the flat roof in December 2019. But this simply isnt reflected in the notes or 
evidence Ive been given. Taking this into account, on balance, I think NFU has acted 
reasonably by taking its date of notification of this event as June 2020.
From this date, Im satisfied the claim progressed at a reasonable pace. I can see at 
times there was a back and forth about appointments between parties and whether a 
further opinion was needed. Overall, it seems this part of the claim progressed within 
an acceptable timeframe.
Mr Y disagreed with the findings of NFU initially and in turn it appointed a separate 
expert party to produce a further report which reached the same findings. I think its 
engagement on this issue was positive as typically the responsibility of obtaining a 
second opinion may sit with the policyholder but NFU took this on itself.
I understand Mr Y has now accepted the decision that the flat roof isnt covered by 
the policy. But for completeness, Im satisfied NFUs decision to decline cover for the 
roof was a reasonable one in light of the available expert opinions which say the 
damage was not subsidence related.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding the above complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman