DRN-3345473
The complaint
Miss Hs complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Miss H acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss H responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The Process
I understand Miss Hs frustration here as the first inspection revealed no damage charges 
and the subsequent inspection identified about £1,000 of damage.
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
They decided here that they would complete two inspections and they say they warned all 
customers that would be the case in about May 2021.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, the organisation that provide the industry guidelines 
on what is considered fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a lease. But I 
think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. It says that all readily apparent damage and wear will be 
documented when the vehicle is collected, and the driver will be given an opportunity to 
agree with the condition report.
Miss H was given an opportunity to attend the first inspection and to agree to the condition 
report, although Covid restrictions prevented her signing the document. The first inspector 
did highlight some areas of damage, but the report said the severity was to be advised and 
also said a second inspection was required.
Miss H wasnt given an opportunity to attend the second inspection and Ive therefore 
thought about whether this disadvantaged her and whether the results would have been 
different had she been present.
I dont think she was disadvantaged. I say that because I think the first report did identify 
some damage to the alloys and the bumper and it also highlighted the missing compressor. 
Miss H was therefore given an opportunity to comment on those issues at that stage or to 
take further photographs had she wished to. 
Miss H says she didnt receive a copy of that report and MBFS dispute that. I think its likely 
that the inspector would have at least talked through the issues hed identified on the report 
and I dont therefore think it disadvantaged Miss H even if she didnt receive a copy.
Miss H suggests that the damage may have occurred after the car was collected from her 
and before it was inspected for a second time. Im not persuaded that is likely. There were 
only a few days between the inspections and Miss H had the car in her possession for 
significantly longer than that. There was therefore significantly more opportunity for damage 
to have occurred in Miss Hs possession than when the car was in the auctioneers hands.
The damage charges that remain
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Front centre console
The BVRLA guidance says that the interior trim must have no scratches and as the 
photographs show scuffing to this console I think the charge made by MBFS is reasonable.
Front panel valance 
The BVRLA guidance says that dents less than 15mm in diameter are acceptable but as the 
photograph shows a dent larger than that I think the charge levied by MBFS is a fair one. 
Miss H has explained that she had the damage repaired prior to return. She may therefore 
wish to make a complaint to the repairers, but I dont think it would be fair to hold MBFS 
responsible for their work.
Rear bumper 
Miss H has accepted the investigators view that this scuffing is excessive and chargeable, 
and Id agree.
Tyre sealant and compressorThe BVRLA guidance says that everything originally supplied with the car must be returned. 
Miss H has accepted that she used the sealant and didnt replace it, so I think that charge is 
fair. 
Miss H still disputes the charge for the missing compressor, but I think the evidence supports 
that it was missing during the inspection and Im persuaded the charge is a fair one.
Alloy wheel damage
The BVRLA guidance says that damage around the circumference of the wheel should be 
no more than 50mm and that there should be no damage on the spokes.
Both the left-hand front and left-hand rear spokes show damage in the photographs and 
there is damage in excess of 50mm on the circumference of the right-hand front wheel. So, I 
think those charges have also been fairly made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman