DRN-2574909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) dealt with a claim
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to ERV includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual, multi-trip, classic cruise, travel policy. On 
18 August 2019, Mr and Mrs W flew from the UK to a European city where they were to 
join a cruise. On 19 August 2019, Mr and Mrs W discovered that their passports had been 
stolen, so they couldnt join the cruise.
Mr and Mrs W reported the matter to the police. They also applied for emergency, 
replacement passports, which took time to be prepared. They remained in hotel 
accommodation until the emergency, replacement passports were ready. Mr and Mrs W 
then travelled by road and air to join the cruise.
Mr and Mrs W contacted ERV and it told them that they were covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim against their travel policy in relation to the costs of their 
original passports, their emergency replacement passports, hotel costs, taxi and air travel 
and two lost days of their cruise.
ERV paid Mr and Mrs W £400 in relation to their claim. It said that the policy covers 
additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred to replace the passports and a 
proportionate refund of the original, unused passport to the maximum sum payable of 
£200 per person.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy about how ERV had dealt with their claim. They want ERV to 
settle their claim in full. They say that they are out of pocket by £1,066.35 and lost two 
days of their cruise.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that ERV had 
treated Mr and Mrs W fairly. The investigator thought that ERV should pay Mr and Mrs W an 
additional £600 in addition to the £400 it had already paid and compensation of £100 in
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators view but ERV didnt. ERV didnt agree with the 
way in which the investigator had interpreted the policy and limits. It said that section 6c of 
the policy relates to personal money and passports. It said that the limit for money and 
passports as whole is £500 but thats broken down for claims for cash or passports. ERV 
maintained that it has used the correct limit of £200 per insured person.
The investigator considered what ERV said. She said that ERV was right to point out that 
theres an exclusion in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws daily living costs when obtaining a 
replacement passport, but she maintained that ERV had applied the wrong limit to
Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
ERV asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 4 February 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I indicated that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im sorry about what happened to Mr and Mrs W. Im conscious that Ive condensed what I 
dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, 
wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of 
what happened.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section 6c Personal Money and Passport 
What is covered:
[]
we will pay up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for additional travel and 
accommodation expenses you incur abroad to obtain a replacement if your passport is 
lost, or stolen outside the United Kingdom during your trip.
we will pay you a proportionate refund of the unused part of the passports original 
value calculated upon how many complete years it was to remain valid for.
What is not covered under Section[] 
6c: []
21. daily living expenses when obtaining a replacement passport;
Table of benefits (cover per insured person unless otherwise stated)
Cover Limits of cover Excess
Classic
[]
6c Personal Money and Passport £500 £75
[]
Passport £200 Nil
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that ERV has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think that ERV
treated them unfairly in settling the claim. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ws policy doesnt cover every loss they might incur on their trip. In 
the circumstances that occurred here  the theft of Mr and Mrs Ws passports - 
the policy provides cover for additional travel and accommodation expenses 
incurred to obtain replacement passports and a proportionate refund of the 
unused part of the passports original value, subject to the limits shown in the 
table of benefits. The policy doesnt cover the cost of the emergency, 
replacement passport or loss of days on the cruise and excludes daily living 
expenses.The table of benefits shows that the limit for each insured person for loss of 
passport is £200 with no excess due under the policy. I dont think its for this 
service to decide that limit it too low to include travel and accommodation 
expenses. In general terms, insurers can decide the risks they choose to 
insure and the limits of cover.
I dont think that Passport in the table of benefits refers to the limit of only the 
cost of replacing the passport. The policy terms dont cover the cost of 
replacing the passport  thats not mentioned in the relevant term. Passport in 
the table of benefits refers to all the eligible costs  additional travel and 
accommodation expenses to obtain a new passport and the unused portion of 
the original passport - that may flow from the loss or theft of a passport.
I dont think that ERV treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly in applying the terms, 
limits and the relevant exclusion of the policy in the way that it did and in 
settling the claim at £400, as thats the maximum due in the circumstances of 
the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
ERV said that it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr W said:
In a phone call, ERV told him that they were covered for the circumstances of their 
loss. So, they remained at the hotel they were in when less expensive alternatives 
were available. 
They did everything possible to keep the insurers informed and were never told that 
they would be treated in this way. 
They bought the policy in good faith. 
While they accept what I say, they question the point of insurance if it doesnt cover 
such a basic loss. 
Initial indications were that their claim would be covered for more than the amount 
they received, which was less than the premium. 
In all the circumstances, they hope for an ex gratia payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that ERV misled Mr and Mrs W about their claim. ERV dealt with the claim in 
accordance with the policy terms. I appreciate that didnt lead to a payment for all that Mr 
and Mrs W claimed, but I think that ERV dealt with the claim fairly. 
No policy covers everything that might happen on a trip or every expense that may be 
incurred following an insured event. Theres no guarantee that a valid claim will lead to a 
payment of more than the premium. 
Ive considered whats been said, but I see no reason to depart from the views I set out in my 
provisional decision. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. There are 
no grounds on which to direct ERV to make an ex gratia payment. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman