DRN-3504779
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled her 
application to take out a new interest rate product, and her subsequent application to port 
her mortgage with additional borrowing.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage with NatWest and her interest rate product was due to expire on 31 
August 2019. On receiving notification of this from the bank, Miss M went into her local 
branch to discuss her options. As a result of the information she was given in branch, Miss M 
went home and applied online for a five year fixed rate of 2.33%. She had asked for advice 
about what would be best for her, but there werent any appointments available with a 
mortgage adviser in the two weeks she had left before her existing product was due to 
expire. So she says she relied on the information she was given in the branch.
In January 2020 Miss M enquired with NatWest about porting her mortgage to another 
property she was hoping to buy. She discussed her circumstances with NatWest, but never 
went ahead with an application as the property went under offer before things moved any 
further.
Miss M found another property she wanted to buy in July 2020 and discussed this with 
NatWest. Following conversations about Miss Ms circumstances, NatWest provided her with 
a mortgage in principle for the amount she needed to buy the property.
Later that month, NatWest told Miss M they wouldnt be able to proceed with a full 
application due to a change in policy as a result of covid-19. Miss M would need to provide 
two years worth of evidence of her self-employed income, but she was unable to provide 
that as shed not been self-employed for two years. NatWest agreed to put forward an 
exception to the underwriters due to Miss Ms circumstances and she proceeded to make a 
full application. 
During the application NatWest told Miss M that shed need to have two sub-accounts for the 
mortgage. One would be made up of her existing borrowing and the interest rate product 
would be ported over, and the other would be for the new borrowing which would need to be 
on a different interest rate product. Miss M was unhappy with that, as she said shed been 
led to believe by the member of staff shed spoken to in the branch that shed be able to 
move her rate to a new property, and have the new lending on the same rate too. 
Nevertheless, she proceeded with the application, and says she was told in a phone call that 
her application had been approved.
In August 2020 NatWest contacted Miss M to tell her the application had been declined. 
After being referred to NatWests underwriters, Miss Ms income didnt meet their 
affordability criteria for the amount she wanted to borrow. They would only be able to lend 
her around £200,000. They also said she would need to repay her credit card debt in full.
Miss M complained. She was unhappy about how the whole process had been handled, 
from the information she was given in branch about the interest rate in August 2019, to the 
inconsistent information she had been provided about her application to port the mortgage in 
2020. Miss M re-mortgaged with another lender, and asked NatWest to waive the Early 
Repayment Charge shed incur in order to resolve things.
NatWest issued their final response letter in September 2020. In summary, they said that 
they couldnt confirm what Miss M had been told in branch, and that she went ahead with the 
rate switch on a non-advised basis. They also said they had assessed her porting 
application in line with the relevant criteria at the time. Theyd asked for an exception to be 
made but the underwriters would not agree it. But to recognise that they could have handled 
some things better, they offered to refund the product fee Miss M had paid on the interest 
rate product, as well as the interest that had been charged on the fee.
Miss M discussed with NatWest her dissatisfaction with their response and they followed up 
with another letter. However, they didnt change the outcome of the complaint.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked into things. In 
summary, he didnt think Miss M took out the interest rate product in August 2019 as a result 
of unsuitable advice from NatWest. And he didnt think NatWest had declined the porting 
application unfairly. However, he did think the customer service Miss M received could have 
been better, so he recommended NatWest pay Miss M £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Upon receiving further information, our investigator was persuaded to change his opinion. 
He found that NatWest had not applied their lending criteria fairly to Miss Ms application to 
port the mortgage in 2020, and had they done so, the application would have been 
approved. As a result, he recommended NatWest refund the ERC Miss M paid when 
redeeming the mortgage, but subtracting from that any benefits Miss M had gained as a 
result of re-mortgaging on more favourable terms. He also awarded a total amount of £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
NatWest agreed to the investigators view. Miss M was happy with the outcome and that the 
investigator recommended a refund of the ERC, but she was not happy that the benefits 
shed gained as a result of the error would be offset against the redress. The amount of the 
refund had been much lower than Miss M was expecting. As a result, she asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have helpfully submitted detailed accounts of what happened during the period 
2019-2020. The above is only a summary of what happened, and I want to assure both 
parties that I have considered everything theyve told us very carefully before issuing this 
decision. I mean no discourtesy by not referring to every point made. We are an informal 
service, and in this decision I will focus on what I believe to be the crux of Miss Ms 
complaint, and the matters I feel are relevant to an overall fair outcome.
The product switch in 2019
NatWest have been unable to provide any records of the conversations Miss M says she 
had in branch in August 2019. But Miss M has provided a very detailed account of what she 
recalls from the conversation. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely that a 
detailed conversation about Miss Ms circumstances did take place, and Miss M did tell 
NatWest that she was hoping to move to a new house in the next 12 months.
Miss M has said that she was told shed be able to take out a new interest rate, transfer that 
to a new property, and also take out additional borrowing on the new property on the same 
interest rate. She says she wouldnt have wanted to have two separate interest rates, 
incurring two product fees, running on the new mortgage.
What Miss M has described shed like to have happened wouldnt have been possible. 
Miss M would have been able to port her existing rate to her new property (subject to a 
successful application), but any new borrowing would always have needed to have been taken on an interest rate that would have been available at the time the borrowing was 
applied for. 
So that left Miss M with two options. Either she secured a new rate for her existing borrowing 
to avoid moving on to the standard variable rate (SVR), and applied for additional borrowing 
once shed found a house she wanted to buy  with that borrowing being on a different rate. 
NatWest have said they had fee-free products so Miss M wouldnt necessarily have needed 
to pay two product fees. 
Or, if Miss M wanted to ensure she only had one interest rate product on the whole of her 
borrowing once shed moved house, the mortgage would have reverted to the SVR (which 
was almost double the rate she was paying), and remained on that rate until she found a 
new house. Neither of those options were Miss Ms preference. But on balance, I think its 
likely shed have taken the same action that she did in the event that shed been given the 
correct information (which she disputes she was). If shed let the mortgage revert to the 
SVR, her monthly payments would have increased significantly, and there was no guarantee 
that shed be able to find a new house in the near future that shed want, and be able, to 
move to.
NatWest did recommend that Miss M book an appointment with a mortgage adviser, but 
there werent any appointments available before the reversion date. So in that knowledge, 
Miss M chose to proceed based on the information shed been given in order to avoid her 
mortgage reverting to the SVR. During the online application for the rate it was clear that 
Miss M was providing on a non-advised basis, and she was encouraged to seek advice. 
Miss M chose to proceed without waiting to speak to a mortgage adviser. So overall, I dont 
think Miss M has lost out as a result of unfair treatment by NatWest.
The porting application in 2020 
All parties have agreed that the customer service Miss M experienced during her application 
to port her mortgage and take out additional borrowing could have been better. She was 
given conflicting information throughout the process and had to spend a lot of time on the 
phone trying to get the application sorted, only to find it was eventually declined. I am 
mindful that Miss Ms application was being processed by NatWest during a time that was 
difficult for everybody. And things were changing quickly in the mortgage landscape as a 
result of the impact of covid-19. I appreciate each member of NatWest staff Miss M spoke to 
was trying to help her and wanted her application to succeed, but this resulted in her 
receiving mixed messages and I dont think her expectations were reasonably managed.
In any event, I dont think NatWest handled Miss Ms application fairly. NatWest have shared 
their lending policy with us that was relevant at the time of Miss Ms application. There is a 
separate section within the policy for those who are not able to provide evidence of two 
years worth of income in their self-employment, and there are alternatives NatWest can ask 
for instead. Miss M has sent us the information needed, and this was also sent to NatWest at 
the time. NatWests underwriters did comment that due to the nature of Miss Ms job, its 
likely she would have been impacted by the pandemic. But Miss M had provided evidence to 
show that wasnt the case. 
I dont think NatWest applied their own policy to Miss Ms application fairly, and so I dont 
think it should have been declined for the reasons they gave. NatWest have also agreed to 
the investigators view that the application should have proceeded, and so I will move on to 
how I think NatWest should put things right.
Putting things right
Miss M was able to re-mortgage with another lender for the full amount needed to purchase 
the house she wanted, but in doing so she incurred an ERC. I agree with the investigator 
that as I dont think Miss M should have had to re-mortgage elsewhere, the ERC should be 
refunded.However, that isnt the end of the matter. As a service, where we think things havent 
happened as they should have, we will recommend that the complainant is put back into the 
position they should have been in, had things not gone wrong. In Miss Ms case, that means 
putting her back into the position she would have been in, had NatWest accepted her 
application.
Whilst Miss M paid an ERC to redeem her mortgage, she has also re-mortgaged onto a 
much lower rate than she was on before. Ive already explained that if Miss Ms application 
had been successful, she would have had to keep her existing interest rate on her existing 
borrowing in order to avoid paying an ERC. And the additional borrowing would have been 
on a different rate. Both Miss Ms existing rate and the new rate shed applied for on the 
additional borrowing were higher than the rate shes paying on her new mortgage. 
So, setting the ERC aside, Miss M is now better off month on month whilst shes paying that 
lower rate. Miss M has also paid lower fees than she was planning to pay with NatWest. I 
appreciate Miss M disagrees, but those benefits shes received as a result of moving 
elsewhere do need to be factored into the redress amount that I think NatWest should pay. 
NatWest have sent us their calculations for how theyve worked out the overall redress due 
to Miss M to put things right, and I think theyve calculated the redress fairly. Im aware that 
NatWest have already paid the redress, and the £300 distress and inconvenience award the 
investigator recommended. Theyve also refunded the product fee they charged Miss M, the 
interest charged on that fee, and removed the search on Miss Ms credit file that resulted 
from the application. As a result, Im not satisfied NatWest need to do anything more to put 
things right for Miss M.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied National Westminster 
Bank Plc have done enough to put things right. So I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman