DRN-3473141
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited increased her premiums for her motor 
insurance policy because her husband had a previous claim. She wants her premiums 
reduced to the original amount. 
What happened
Mrs H bought a policy with Ageas through a broker. Mr H was a named driver on the policy. 
Mrs H was then contacted and told that she hadnt disclosed a claim on her husbands 
record and her premiums would increase. Ageas said Mrs H could pay the premium 
increase, cancel her policy and pay just for her time on cover, or have any future claims paid 
proportionately. Mrs H was unhappy with this as she thought her husbands claim had 
nothing to do with her. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our Investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant law. She didnt 
think this was deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. 
But she said that Ageas couldnt impose the additional premium on Mrs H. She thought it 
should have provided Mrs H with this option. But she thought Mrs H hadnt lost out as there 
was little difference between the costs of the additional premium and cancellation. She 
thought that if Mrs H disagreed, she should discuss this with Ageas. 
Ageas replied that the broker had applied the additional premium. Mrs H replied that she 
couldnt see that her husbands claim should affect her policy. Mrs H asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
Ageas thinks Mrs H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application that her husband didnt have any claims within the previous five 
years. And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the application 
and agree she failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because she was asked in relation to the named driver, Mr H: 
Have they had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the last 5 years, no matter who was 
at fault or if a claim was made.
And there is a pop up box explaining the importance of answering the question correctly. So 
I think this was a clear question asked by Ageas. And I think it is usual in motor insurance 
policies for insurers to ask this question in order to assess the risks for all drivers on the 
policy. So I think the question was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs H answered No. But this was incorrect because I can see that Mr H had a fault claim 
within the previous year. So Mrs H should have declared this. And I think this means Mrs H 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she said her husband 
had no previous claims. 
Ageas has provided evidence which shows that if Mrs H had not made this 
misrepresentation it would have at least charged her a higher premium. This means I am 
satisfied Mrs Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mrs Hs misrepresentation wasnt a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
This is because Mrs H has explained that she thought the previous claim wasnt to do with 
her policy or car. 
But if Mrs H had declared the claim, then I can see that Ageas would have charged her a 
higher premium. Where the misrepresentation caused the insurer to charge a different price 
than it otherwise would have done, CIDRA does not allow the insurer to change the price of 
cover once the misrepresentation is uncovered. However, that doesnt mean the policyholder 
will get full cover at a lower price.
Rather, as Ageas later explained, the remedies available under CIDRA for Mrs H were:
in the event of future claims, she would receive a proportionate settlement, as she was 
only covered for 56% of the risk, or, if that wasnt acceptable;
she could cancel the policy and seek cover elsewhere; if there were no claims made to 
that date, she would receive a refund of premium and would only be charged for the 
days she had been on cover;
otherwise, she could pay the additional premium to ensure she was fully covered.
But the broker had already charged Mrs H an additional premium which she had accepted 
without explaining all her options. I cant consider the brokers actions here as its a separate 
business. But I can see that Ageas has now correctly explained all her options. And I think 
that if Mrs H thinks she would have chosen differently then she should take up the 
Investigators suggestion and discuss this with Ageas.
I can see that Ageas has provided evidence to show that the premium increase was fairly 
calculated, and it hasnt treated Mrs H any differently to other consumers. And, from the 
Investigators calculations, I can see that the difference between cancelling the policy and 
paying the increase in premiums isnt significant. So if Mrs H wants full cover, then I dont 
think she has suffered any loss. Therefore, Im satisfied Ageas was entitled to provide Mrs H with her options, including 
paying an additional premium, in accordance with CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Ageas to rely on it 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman