DRN-3336154
The complaint
Mrs R complains U K Insurance Limited handled her motor insurance claim poorly.
Mrs Rs had a representative for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to their 
actions as those of Mrs R. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs R made a claim on her UKI motor insurance policy. The insured car was 
damaged in a collision. UKI agreed to the claim. It considered the vehicle a total loss. As the 
claim progressed Mrs R became frustrated with how UKI was handling matters. Her 
concerns included the suitability of a courtesy car, incorrect information about the cost of the 
damaged vehicles salvage and the market valuation used to settle the claim. 
UKI issued responses to Mrs Rs complaints. In June 2021 it paid her £60 to recognise the 
extra costs and inconvenience of not being provided with an electric hire car. In early August 
2021 UKI paid a further £50 to apologise for its engineer taking too long to contact her. A few 
weeks later it paid her £150 for not calling to discuss the cost of the salvage as had been 
agreed. 
In September 2021 UKI accepted its engineer hadnt been clear about the process for 
setting salvage values. It accepted that had delayed settling the claim. To apologise it paid a 
further £250 compensation. In the same month it said it was satisfied its market value for the 
car, £95,000, was fair. In October 2021 UKI paid a further £350 compensation to recognise 
the inconvenience of Mrs R being required to exchange one hire car for another. In total UKI 
offered Mrs R £860 compensation.  
Mrs R wasnt satisfied, so came to this service. To resolve her complaint she wants UKI to 
pay a fair settlement for the car to allow purchase of a replacement of similar specification 
and mileage. She says she hasnt yet been paid the initial £60 offered in June 2021. Finally, 
she wants further compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience UKIs poor service 
has caused.  
In February 2022 our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint. She felt the £95,000 market 
value UKI had based its settlement on was fair. She said it had made mistakes with the 
courtesy car. She also referred to problems with UKIs communications with Mrs R. 
However, she felt the compensation it had already offered was enough to recognise the 
impact of its mistakes. So she didnt recommend UKI do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. Mrs R didnt accept the assessment. She says the claim settlement isnt enough 
for her to buy a suitable replacement vehicle. As a result the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Rs raised many complaint points. As this is an informal service, Im not going to 
respond here to everything here. Instead Ill just focus on how UKI responded to her 
complaint overall, whilst focusing on the individual complaint points I consider the most 
significant. 
Mrs Rs policy says UKI wont pay more than the market value of the car at the time of the 
loss (less any excess that may apply). Market value is defined as the cost of replacing the 
vehicle with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the 
time of the accident. So Ive considered if UKIs offer to settle Mrs Rs claim is fair and in line 
with the terms.   
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices, so they are more reliable than individual adverts. 
UKI obtained a bespoke valuation for the vehicle at £95,000. It says its valuation is 
supported by two trade guides and adverts. This service checked three trade guides 
(including two referred to by UKI) using the make, model, age and mileage of the insured 
vehicle. The valuations given for the date of loss were £92,200, £87,250 and £102,427. 
Mrs Rs explained the car was purchased new for about £88,000. She says theres high 
demand for them used due to a manufacturer waiting list. She said in October 2021 used 
models were advertised for more than £105,000. Ive considered everything shes said, but 
the appropriate market value is that at the time of loss  June 2021. More significantly she 
hasnt provided much in the way of supporting evidence, for example valuations or adverts. 
The most persuasive evidence I do have is the trade guide valuations. UKIs settlement offer 
is based on a market value within their range. So on balance I cant say its offer to settle the 
claim is unfair or hasnt been made in line with the policy terms. That means Im not going to 
require UKI to provide a higher settlement.  
UKI accepts it made various mistakes during this claim. Its not necessary to detail 
everything that went wrong. But the errors include providing incorrect information about the 
salvage value of the car. UKI also gave some misleading advice about the vehicles V5 
document. Those mistakes seem to have delayed settlement of the claim. UKI also changed 
its mind about the type of courtesy car it would provide. It seems it may have initially 
arranged an unsuitable courtesy car for Mrs R.  
However, I can see a high specification courtesy car has been provided for a long period, 
well beyond the 21 days entitlement under Mrs Rs optional hire car terms. As far as Ive 
seen a courtesy car was still being provided as late as November 2021. So I think overall 
UKI acted fairly with courtesy cars  minimising the inconvenience of delays to the claim. Its 
also offered, it not yet paid in full, £860 compensation in total to recognise the various errors. 
Mrs Rs said UKIs mistakes had a significant impact, particularly as they happened at a 
similar time to a family loss. But overall I think its already done enough to recognise the 
impact of any mistakes or delays its responsible for. 
So Im not going to require UKI to pay Mrs R any further compensation or do anything 
differently. Id expect it, if it hasnt already, to pay her the £60 it offered in June 2021.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to pay any further 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman