DRN-4268995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) delayed 
dealing with their claim and failed to properly support them by providing alternative 
accommodation while an escape of water claim was being dealt with.
What happened
In summer 2022, Mr and Mrs H had an escape of water in their bathroom, causing damage 
to the bathroom, hall, and kitchen.  They initially contacted the emergency helpline included 
in their policy for assistance in stopping the immediate leak.  After that, they submitted a 
claim to RSA in respect of the damage caused.
Mr and Mrs H have been concerned throughout about the length of time it took to deal with 
resolving their claim  which took months rather than weeks.  And they were unhappy that 
they had to have different alternative accommodation during the course of the claim  which 
they sourced themselves.
Mr and Mrs H complained to RSA about these issues, and about the way their initial contact 
was dealt with on the day the escape of water was discovered.  In their final response, RSA 
said they were satisfied overall with the way the claim was handled.  They said there was 
minor delay during the drying process, which took longer than expected, but this was 
unavoidable.  They also said their contractors were hampered by staff illness and lead times 
and supply issues across the industry.
RSA said their contractors had tried to assist Mr and Mrs H by bringing elements of the work 
forward.  But this led to work being done sporadically and being fitted around other jobs.  
They said their communication around this could have been better.  And, while they 
understood Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about not being updated, they were satisfied theyd 
complied with their own service standards.
To compensate Mr and Mrs H for the shortcomings theyd identified, RSA paid them £200 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs H didnt consider this resolved their complaint and brought it to our service.  
They said RSA hadnt recognised the stress they and their family had been caused, or 
acknowledged the impact the management of the claim had had on their health or their 
earnings  as theyd had to take time away from work to deal with things.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded RSA didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  While she acknowledged the impact on Mr and Mrs H and their family, she didnt 
think this was the result of anything within RSAs control.  She thought the £200 was 
sufficient to compensate for any delays they had caused.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr and Mrs H have been distressed by whats happened.  Its clear from all Ive 
read that it was a difficult time for them and their family.  Its not my intention to diminish that 
in any way.  But I have to try and separate the inevitable difficulties and distress caused by 
the escape of water from RSAs actions.  I can only say RSA should do more to resolve the 
complaint if I think they added to that difficulty and distress by acting unreasonably.
Ive considered the areas of concern Mr and Mrs H have raised.  I think they can be divided 
into concerns about the initial response to the escape of water, issues around alternative 
accommodation and delays in the claim.  Ill deal with each of those separately.
Initial response to the escape of water
Its clear Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the initial response they got when they called the 
emergency helpline for assistance to deal with the flood.  I understand why they feel that 
way.  But this isnt an issue I can consider.
Ive studied Mr and Mrs Hs policy documentation.  That shows RSA underwrote their 
buildings and contents cover.  But their home emergency cover was underwritten by a 
different insurer.
I havent been told whether or not Mr and Mrs H have made a complaint to the other insurer.  
But, if they want to complain about the initial response to the escape of water, that is what 
theyll need to do.  The policy makes it clear this wasnt RSAs responsibility.  So Im not 
going to comment further on this part of the complaint.
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs H complained that they were offered accommodation which wasnt suitable for 
their family, they had to search for it themselves and that they had to move between 
alternative accommodation because repairs to their home werent completed.  Ive thought 
about this.
The policy doesnt provide for alternative accommodation in every case.  Rather, it provides 
alternative accommodation
if the home is uninhabitable as a result of damage to buildings by causes described in 
[the policy].
Whether a property is habitable varies from claim to claim.  But, in many cases, properties 
are deemed habitable if they have a functioning kitchen, bathroom facilities and living space.  
Mr and Mrs Hs property was  applying these criteria  habitable.  But, because Mrs H 
suffered from a medical condition that was exacerbated by the damp in the house, RSA 
agreed to provide temporary accommodation.
The first accommodation provided was a hotel room.  This wasnt acceptable to Mr and    
Mrs H, who had to share this with their family and pets  nor did it provide cooking facilities.  
I understand that view.  But I can see RSA explained to them it was very difficult at that point 
to source any accommodation in the area, which is an extremely popular tourist destination 
at that time of year.  It was Mr H who was able to find a suitable alternative.  But Ive seen that RSAs agents were also searching.  And RSA promptly So I dont think RSA did 
anything wrong here.
Nor do I think its reasonable to say RSA were at fault for Mr and Mrs H having to switch 
alternative accommodation during their absence from their home.  I can see that, when Mr H 
found their first accommodation, RSA advised him to rent it on a rolling monthly basis.  Mr H 
wasnt able to do this but indicated he hoped there would be availability later in the year if 
needed.  The notes Ive seen satisfy Mr and Mrs H booked the accommodation in the 
knowledge it may not be available for their whole period of need.  I cant say thats RSAs 
fault because they, too, were reliant on availability in the market and had no more access to 
properties than Mr and Mrs H.
With regard to later issues, I cant see that Mr and Mrs H asked RSA to help them search for 
accommodation.  The claim notes show that requests around accommodation were limited 
to reimbursing costs - which RSA did promptly  not requests for assistance in sourcing.  
So I dont think they need to do any more in relation to the provision of alternative 
accommodation.  The need for that accommodation was, of course, linked to the length of 
time taken for works to be completed  which Ive considered below.
Delay in completing repairs
Mr and Mrs H suffered the escape of water in summer 2022.  Repairs werent completed at 
the property until well into the new year.  Thats a long time.  And I can understand Mr and 
Mrs Hs frustrations over this.
But, as I said above, I can only say RSA should do more to resolve this element of the 
complaint if I think they dealt with it unreasonably.  I dont think thats the case.
The claim related to an escape of water.  So the property had to be dry before repairs 
started.  Thats reasonable.  Mr and Mrs H have said the process took too long because 
RSAs contractor tried to dry the property without stripping walls and plaster.  Im not an 
expert.  But I dont think its unreasonable to try and dry the property causing as little 
additional damage as possible.  So I cant agree with Mr and Mrs H the contractor should 
have immediately stripped everything back.
I can see that lead times for work to start were between 10 and 12 weeks after drying was 
completed, due to supply and labour issues.  Mr and Mrs H were initially offered a start date 
around 11 weeks after the property was dry, in line with this.  But I can see RSA took steps 
to try and bring work forward, by having contractors fit in their part of the work around other 
jobs.
I accept this wasnt ideal.  And there were unfortunately delays as a result of contractor 
illness.  But it was done in an effort to bring forward completion of the repair works  which is 
what Mr and Mrs H wanted.  I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.  The 
alternative was to wait for works to start as scheduled and be completed as a whole project.  
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Hs suggestion that the issues were due to a lack of care or 
organisational skills.  The evidence Ive seen shows the repairs required a number of 
different skills  so different contractors were involved.  And Ive seen RSA and their agents 
spent time organising them to try and complete the work as quickly as possible.  I dont think 
its reasonable to say RSA should have done any more.
Finally, Ive noted RSA sent Mr and Mrs H £200 for what they describe as their failure to 
properly set expectations around agents/contractors visiting the property and communicating about attendance.  Mr and Mrs H have said this isnt sufficient to recognise the stress and 
inconvenience to their family or the fact they took time off work to deal with the claim.
Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs H at the outset we look at the overall impact a 
businesss action has had on a customer, rather than the hourly rate someone is paid.  That 
positions confirmed on our website.  So thats what Ive done.
I can see contact with both Mr and Mrs H was in fact frequent and they were included in 
emails sent to multiple contacts as a way of keeping them updated.  So, while I note what 
RSA have said, I cant fairly say they didnt keep Mr and Mrs H informed.  The only 
exception to this is that I cant see they were advised about lead times following the property 
being dry until they were given a date for works to start.  While that didnt make any 
difference to the lead times, not giving Mr and Mrs H this information earlier was a failure to 
manage their expectations.  
But I think £200 compensation is fair for this, taking into account the efforts RSA and their 
contractors made to bring the works forward and complete it earlier.   So I dont think they 
need to do any more to resolve Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman