DRN-3073543
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund two payments he made after 
falling victim to a scam.  
What happened
In 2018, Mr H came across an advert for an investment firm. He says the advert referred to 
their appearance on a UK TV show, which reassured him it was a safe bet. He left his 
contact details on an enquiry form and was contacted by a broker. He spoke to the broker 
over the phone and says they were very professional. He initially made a small investment of 
€1,000 using a credit card he held with another bank. 
Mr H says that within 10 days the investment had increased in value to €1,700 so he 
requested a small withdrawal - which was paid out. Mr H says this convinced him that this 
was a genuine investment opportunity, so Mr H made two payments from his Metro account. 
The first was for €9,000 (£8,315.62) on 12 August 2018 and the second was for €10,000 
(£9,260.12) on 23 September 2018. 
The investment firm wasnt genuine and Mr H was unable to withdraw any of the funds hed 
invested. 
Mr H raised a fraud claim with Metro, asking them to refund him. Metro declined saying 
theyd acted on his instructions to make the payments. And that when they became aware of 
the fraud claim theyd contacted the beneficiary banks but were unable to recover any of    
Mr Hs funds.
Mr H wasnt happy with Metros response, so he brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it, asking Metro to refund Mr H in full 
and pay 8% simple interest on the refund. The investigator felt Metro shouldve asked Mr H 
more questions about the purpose of the payments, and if Metro had the scam wouldve 
been uncovered and the payments wouldve been prevented.
Metro disagreed with the investigators opinion. They felt the questions the investigator 
suggested they shouldve asked dont represent real banking practice. And that questions 
had been asked when the payments were made, but due to the length of time that has 
passed, there is no record of what was discussed. But if the staff had had concerns at the 
time, they wouldve referred to a manager for advice and a note wouldve been added to the 
file.
As Metro disagreed, the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the same 
reasons  and Ill explain why.
This was an authorised payment even though Mr H was the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
So, although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr H is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Its unclear from Metros contact notes what discussion took place, but its agreed by both 
parties that a conversation did happen. Metro says that setting up a foreign payment would 
take about 15 minutes and staff are trained to use that time in a conversational manner to 
learn what the payment is for and to identify if there is a risk of the customer being the victim 
of a scam. Mr H says he remembers being asked what the payment was for and whether he 
had invested before.
Its not entirely clear what questions were asked, but I think Metro has missed the 
opportunity to identify that Mr H was the victim of a scam.
I would expect Metro to be aware of investment scams and the tell-tale signs that indicate a 
consumer may have fallen victim to one. I dont expect Metro to interrogate their customers, 
but I would expect a conversation about Mr Hs payment to have included questions like 
what checks he had done on the investment firm, what returns he was expecting and Mr H 
being made aware of the risks associated with sending funds overseas and the limited ability 
to recover them if something goes wrong. Mr H has told us that he hadnt really invested 
before and didnt know what sort of checks he could or should make prior to making an 
investment. So, I think its most likely that if Metro had highlighted the concerns and risks, 
that Mr H wouldnt have proceeded with making the payments.
So, while Ive carefully considered Metros comments in response to the investigators view - 
Im not persuaded they asked sufficient questions before processing Mr Hs payment. Also, 
that they missed the opportunity to identify that Mr H was potentially the victim of a scam and 
prevent Mr H from making these payments and losing these funds. I have also considered whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of making the payment, he 
was still totally in the dark about investment scams  what one looks like or what checks he 
could do to protect himself. Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence in this case. 
Mr H was victim of a clever fraudster and a sophisticated scam and the bank was the 
professional in this matter, whereas Mr H was a layperson. 
Having considered everything, I am satisfied Metro should reimburse Mr H in full for both 
payments he made from his account, along with interest for the loss of use of those funds.
 
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
against Metro Bank PLC  and I require the bank to:
Refund Mr H for both payments he made from his Metro account - within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest on that refund from the date of loss to the date of refund (If 
Metro is legally required to deduct tax from the interest, they should send Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate).
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman