DRN-3761690
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Covea Insurance Plc settled a contents insurance claim unfairly.
Mr Ws a policyholder and has been involved in the claim for Mrs Ws ring. But for ease 
Ive referred to his actions as being those of Mrs W. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs W claimed, on her Covea contents insurance policy, for damage to the 
claws of a ring and the resulting loss of two diamonds. She said the ring had been damaged 
when she had fallen over. Unfortunately Mrs W had the ring repaired before the insurer had 
validated the claim. As a result Covea only agreed to reimburse her about £400 of the 
£1,585 cost she paid. 
Covea agreed to cover the replacement diamonds at the amount it would have paid its own 
suppliers  rather than what Mrs W paid. It refused to reimburse any of the repair costs. 
Essentially it said based on the information provided it wasnt satisfied the damage to all the 
rings claws had been caused by a fall. It wanted to inspect the damage, but that wasnt 
possible as it had already been repaired. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with that so made a complaint. Covea didnt change its position. In 
September 2022 our investigator recommended the insurer reimburse the cost of the repair. 
Mrs W accepted that assessment. But as Covea didnt respond to accept or reject the it the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea considered this claim under the accidental damage (AD) section of the policy. The 
policy defines AD as damage that happens suddenly and wasnt expected. As it paid out on 
the diamonds it seems Covea accepts the diamonds were lost as a result of AD. So it seems 
to accept Mrs W did take a fall and damage the rings in some manner. 
Mrs Ws repair estimate states that all the rings claws required re-tipping. But Coveas 
jewellery specialist wasnt persuaded its likely, considering the rings design and the 
available photos, that all the claws were damaged in a single incident. Instead its of the 
opinion they were worn and required rebuilding. So it requested further photos showing all 
the claws  or a visual inspection. As explained the repairs had already been completed so 
that wasnt possible. So Covea refused to cover any of the repairs.
The policy terms do state that Covea wont pay any claims if repairs are made when it isnt 
allowed an opportunity to look at any damage. But this service doesnt only consider 
technical terms of a policy. We think about whats fair and reasonable. In this case I dont 
think its fair for Covea to rely on the term to deny part of the claim.
I say that as it failed, during the first notification of claim call, to advise Mrs W not to have 
any repairs made until it was satisfied with the claim. Coveas record of the call notes that 
Mrs W said she would send in the repair estimate and photos. She also noted as saying the 
ring was with her jewellers waiting to be repaired. Theres nothing to indicate Covea told her 
to delay repairs to allow for a possible inspection. So it seems unfair for the insurer, having 
failed to tell Mrs W not to repair the ring, to later deny part of her claim on the basis.    
Ive considered Coveas specialists comments about the likelihood of all the claws being 
damaged by a single incident. Im persuaded by the repairers estimate that the claws 
required repair. Pre-repair photos do show some damage to the ring. I accept that not every 
relevant area of the ring is visible. But overall it seems more likely to me that the damage to 
the claws happened in the same incident as reported by Mrs W  rather than some of it 
having become warn as suggested by the jewellery specialist. So to settle the claim Covea 
will need to cover all the damage. 
So far Coveas settled part of the claim by paying what it would have paid its own supplier 
rates, rather than the market rate Mrs W paid. Settling on that basis can be fair and 
reasonable in some circumstances, but not here. I accept Covea may have preferred to use 
its own lower cost supplier to do the work. But as Ive set out above, when Mrs W said the 
ring was waiting to be repaired by her own jeweller, it failed to advise her not to go ahead. 
So it wouldnt be fair, with her then having paid the full market rate, for Covea to now settle 
the claim based on its own suppliers cost. 
So Covea will need to, on receipt of evidence of payment, reimburse Mrs W what she paid 
for the repairs and diamond replacement  minus the £100 excess. It can deduct the amount 
its already settled. To make up for her being unfairly without those funds it will need to add 
simple interest, at 8%, from the date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
Im not awarding any compensation as there hasnt been, as far Im aware, any serious 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience for Mrs W. I note she has been out of pocket for the 
funds, but the simple interest is intended to address that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Covea Insurance Plc to on receipt of evidence of 
payment from Mrs W reimburse her the remaining balance of what she paid for the repair 
and diamond replacement  minus the £100 excess. It should also add simple interest at 8% 
from the date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman