DRN-2349380
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. I say this because while theres limited documentation available from the time of 
the sale, Lloyds has given us a copy of Mr Ps Mortgage Application form. This has been 
completed by hand with details about Mr Ps circumstances and requirements at the 
time. The copy I have is a little blurred, but I can see that the yes box in the section 
about the MortgageSure policy has been ticked. There was another box Mr P could have 
ticked if he hadnt wanted the PPI. Mr P went on to sign and date the Mortgage 
Application. 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer letter which was sent to Mr P before the 
mortgage started, and it includes details about the MortgageSure policy and also 
includes an Insurance Cover document. So, I think Mr P knew he had a choice about 
taking the PPI and decided to add it to his account upon application for his mortgage. If 
he hadnt wanted it, I would have expected him to have ticked no for the policy on the 
Mortgage Application or questioned its inclusion upon receipt of the mortgage offer. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ps circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr P was eligible for the cover 
and had limited means to fall back on in order to make the mortgage repayments if he 
wasnt working  the employee benefits he told us about  so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ps employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr P says he had medical conditions some time before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I 
say this because the first of those conditions was a broken bone which occurred over ten 
years before the policy was taken and was treated at the time. The other two conditions 
occurred five years before the policy was taken and for both conditions Mr P told us he 
saw his GP and received medication in the short term for both. Mr P didnt tell us of any 
ongoing issues with any of the medical conditions. So I dont think that when Mr P 
applied for the policy he would have thought it likely he would have needed to have 
made a claim on the policy because of them. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr P as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr P would have declined 
the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions and 
exclusions on claims relating mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have still thought he had 
some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman