DRN-2746609
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Freemans Plc (Freemans), trading as Witt International, are unfairly 
pursuing her for a debt she doesnt owe.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
After Mrs D made a payment in August 2018 the balance on her account was £53.55. 
Further purchases were made and the balance increased to £123.71 in September. A 
payment of £62.15 made by Mrs D in October 2018 reduced the balance to £64.93.
I cant see evidence that there were any payments made towards this debt.
Mrs D has referred to a payment of £47.98 that she says hasnt been credited to her 
account. I cant see this relates to the account in question. The letter Mrs D has provided 
referring to this payment, dated 11 July 2018, refers to an account with a different number. 
Freemans have explained it relates to a further cash account Mrs D held with them.
I understand that account is disputed by Mrs D but thats not something Freemans have 
considered yet so it wouldnt be fair for me to comment on it.
Ive read Mrs Ds accountants comments and I can also understand that Mrs D didnt intend 
to leave a debt on the account. But Im required to decide if Freemans have been fair 
pursuing the debt and adding interest and charges and, as Im persuaded the debt was 
outstanding and payment hadnt been made towards it, I think they have been and Im not 
persuaded to ask them to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman