DRN-4334746
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against his travel 
insurance policy.  Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr P bought a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by       
Great Lakes. He paid an additional premium for winter sports cover. Mr P says that on 
arrival at his destination on 10 March 2022, he discovered that one of his bags  his 
oversized snowboarding bag - hadnt arrived. He says that his bag arrived at the airport 
the following day and he received it 48 hours later.  
Whilst he waited for his bag, Mr P hired a snowboard and bindings and boots at a cost of 
€27. He says that it wasnt possible to hire essential clothes so he had to purchase 
salopettes, gloves, socks, a hat and eyewear so that he could snowboard. He spent  
€321.10. In March 2022, Mr P made a claim against the policy in relation to those costs. 
In August 2022, Great Lakes paid Mr P £40. It said that was the maximum due under the 
policy - £20 per day for two days. Mr P didnt think that was sufficient and pursued his 
complaint. 
Mr P says that Great Lakes payment of £40 only covers part of his cost of renting sports 
equipment and doesnt cover his claim for the cost of buying essential clothing. He also 
complains about difficulty in contacting Great Lakes and about its delay in dealing with 
his claim. Mr P wants Great Lakes to review his claim.
The investigator asked Great Lakes for information about Mr Ps complaint, but we didnt 
receive a response at that stage. So, one of our investigators looked at what had 
happened on the basis of the information provided by Mr P. She thought that           
Great Lakes should pay Mr P £150 as a contribution towards the cost of purchase of 
salopettes, gloves and socks and compensation of £100 for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
After the investigators view, Great Lakes sent Mr P its final decision in response to his 
complaint. It said that it had failed to assess Mr Ps claim under the Replacement hire 
of winter sports equipment benefit. It paid Mr P £95.04 (€108). It also apologised for 
delays in dealing with the matter. Mr P didnt think that was sufficient. 
In response to the investigators recommendations, Great Lakes said that its contribution 
towards the cost of Mr Ps purchases should be £100, not £150. It said that its offer of 
£100 towards Mr Ps purchase costs was made as a gesture of goodwill. The 
investigator reconsidered the matter but didnt change her view. Mr P now accepted the 
investigators recommendation but as there was no agreement between the parties, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 29 August 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint for different reasons and with a different 
outcome than had  been suggested before. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
say  as follows:
 Section 9: Personal baggage and delayed baggage
This section of your policy explains the cover we provide for your personal baggage 
and delayed baggage whilst on your trip. []
What IS covered
Personal baggage
[]
Delayed baggage
2. Your personal baggage being mislaid on your outward journey for more than 12 
hours from the time you arrive at your trip destination.
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table 
under Delayed Baggage for the level of cover you have selected to:
Purchase essential toiletries, medication and clothing (in the event of point 2 
above)
[]
What IS NOT covered:
[]
Any winter sports equipment (this is covered under the Winter Sports section, if the 
appropriate additional premium has been paid)
Section 14: Winter sports
[]
What IS covered:
Winter sports equipment you own
1. Loss or theft of or damage to your winter sports equipment
Replacement hire of winter sports equipment
2. Your hire of winter sports equipment if required as a result of point 1.
Hired winter sports equipment
3. Your hire of winter sports equipment if required as a result of the misdirection or delay 
on your outward journey of your winter sports equipment for more than 12 hours. 
[]
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table for 
the level of cover you have selected for:
Your hire of winter sports equipment in relation to points 2 and 3.
Winter Sports Equipment is defined as Skis (including bindings), snow boards (including 
bindings), boots, ski poles, ice skates and essential clothes which you own or hire.
has Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold    
Mr Ps complaint for different reasons and with a different outcome than has been suggested 
previously. Ill explain why:   Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
I think theres been confusion in this case. In the circumstances that arose here  
delay of Mr Ps winter sports equipment for more than 12 hours on his outward 
journey   Great Lakes is obliged to pay £20 per day (up to a maximum of £400) in 
relation to hired winter sports equipment. Theres no cover for Mr Ps purchase of 
winter sports equipment. I think that Great Lakes is entitled to rely on the exclusion 
relating to winter sports equipment in the cover for delayed baggage. I dont think that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering Mr Ps claim under the Winter 
sports section of the policy. 
I note that Mr P says that he had to purchase certain items as there wasnt an option 
to hire them, but I dont think that Great Lakes is obliged to reimburse the cost of 
purchases when the policy doesnt cover them in the circumstances that arose here. 
During the course of the complaint, Great Lakes paid Mr P £95.04. It wasnt clear to 
me how Great Lakes had calculated that amount, so I asked for clarification.      
Great Lakes says that it relates to €108 which is €54 hire costs for two days. But 
based on what Ive seen, Mr P claimed only €27 for hire costs in his claim form and 
has produced a receipt for that amount. In any event, Great Lakes isnt obliged to pay 
replacement hire costs for winter sports equipment unless the equipment has been 
lost, stolen or damaged and thats not what happened to Mr Ps winter sports 
equipment. Great Lakes has paid more than it is obliged to pay under the terms of 
the policy. Thats to Mr Ps advantage. 
Great Lakes subsequently offered to pay Mr P an additional £100 as a contribution 
towards his purchase costs as a gesture of goodwill. Thats more than its required to 
pay under the terms of the policy.  
I think that Great Lakes made errors in its handling of Mr Ps claim. Mr P made his 
claim in March 2022 but didnt receive payment until August 2022. Thats 
considerably longer than wed expect this sort of claim to take. I accept what Mr P 
says about the difficulties he had in contacting Great Lakes. And theres been 
confusion about settlement amounts which means that Mr P has been dealing with 
this matter for some time. Given that Great Lakes has already paid £95.04 and 
offered to pay a further £100, I dont think that a fair and reasonable outcome 
requires me to direct it to pay further compensation in relation to its handling of       
Mr Ps claim.  
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to direct Great Lakes to pay Mr P an 
additional £100, which it has offered to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision  
Neither Mr P nor Great Lakes had any further comment. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr P nor Great Lakes has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision. I therefore find no basis on which to depart from my earlier 
conclusions. For the reasons Ive explained, I think that its fair and reasonable for          
Great Lakes to pay Mr P an additional £100, which it has now offered to pay.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Great Lakes should pay Mr P compensation of £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right as indicated above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman