DRN-1833570
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK has closed her accounts 
and recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Halifax received a report that a payment of £400 credited to one of Miss Os accounts wasnt 
authorised. It spoke to Miss O on 8 April 2019 who told it a friend had sent it to her. Halifax 
told Miss O to contact that friend and ask that the fraud claim be removed. The money had 
been transferred on to a different account held by Miss O and then all withdrawn at a cash 
point. Halifax then received a formal claim for the money back from the sending back. It 
decided to close Miss Os accounts and it registered a fraud marker. Miss O complained 
saying that this was affecting her ability to get an account elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He listed the transactions 
on both Miss Os savings account, which received the disputed money, and on her current 
account to which it was transferred and then withdrawn. Miss O had given inconsistent 
information to Halifax. When she first spoke to it, she said that the money was from a friend 
to help her as she was homeless. She didnt report not having the card or not withdrawing 
the money. She later said that this money wasnt from a friend and she was mistaken and 
that she hadnt had use of her card since 15 March 2019. But she wasnt able to explain how 
someone else could have had access to her account. She said she had gone on holiday with 
only £12 and no bank card.
She had since told our investigator that she had been evicted from her cousins address and 
all her belongings put onto the street. This included her bank card and her PIN as she wrote 
it down because she couldnt remember this. She wasnt able to access her account through 
internet banking as although she had her phone, she had no credit. She didnt know who 
had made this disputed credit and also other ones to her account during this period that had 
also been withdrawn. She was only able to speak to Halifax about this when she was on a 
holiday from 7 to 12 April 2019 and didnt need her card. She was confused about what 
happened.
Our investigator noted that after the last transaction recognised by Miss O, £350 in cash had 
been paid into her account which he thought was unlikely to have been the action of a 
fraudster. There was a period of other transactions before the fraudulent £400 had been 
credited. This had been transferred and withdrawn within an hour, so he thought it was 
expected. It wasnt clear how the internal account transfers could have been made by an 
unknown third party using online banking. He said that he wasnt persuaded that Miss O 
hadnt authorised the withdrawal of the fraudulent funds. He thought that the high bar for 
Halifax to make a fraud report to CIFAS had been met.
Miss O did not agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she didnt need 
any money to spend on holiday as this was on a half board basis. She said she could send 
in evidence showing she had a flight at that time and that she was given money when she 
came back from a relative to help her get a place to stay as she was homeless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Os accounts were used regularly after the date she says she made a last genuine 
payment on 15 March 2019. Her position is that her accounts must have been taken over by 
someone else unknown to her after then. That person was able to arrange to receive money 
into her savings account, transfer it into her current account and then withdraw it in cash. As 
our investigator says money was also credited in cash at a branch on 19 March 2019 which 
cleared her then overdraft on that day. The credits by faster payment over the period made 
to a savings account totalled £1,630, including the £400 referred to and then transferred 
across. Payments were made during the period using her bank card with the last ones on 1 
April 2019.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss O wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to her account and in particular to 
the card and PIN used for these withdrawals?
- Did Miss O either authorise the payments on the account which could have included 
allowing someone else to use the card?
- Was the report to CIFAS made fairly? On this point, Halifax needs to have more than a 
suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or 
financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would support 
this being reported to the authorities. 
Im satisfied from the available evidence from Halifax that the payments were authenticated 
and that for example the cash withdrawals were made when the chip on her card was read 
and the correct PIN entered. 
Im focussing on what happened to the £400 which is the basis for the report of fraud. But in 
thinking about whether Miss O authorised the withdrawal of that money it is relevant to 
consider all the movements on her account at around that time. She had received 
substantial amounts of money which she now says she knew nothing about. She said she 
was expecting friends to help her with money for a hostel and so for money to be credited. 
But she says she had no way of checking her account. She didnt report her card missing 
even when she says she had contacted Halifax from abroad and asked why her account was 
blocked. She later said in a letter to Halifax that she normally misplaced the card and then 
that all her valuables had been put on the street when she was forced to move out and that a 
lot was going on which did not allow me to take any dramatic action at the time. Shes now 
said to this service that she had lost her card and her PIN was written down and that was 
somehow found in the street. She couldnt access online banking but, on her account, it 
seems an unknown person could to track the money being received and quickly make the 
transfers and withdrawals.
Im afraid in my view Miss O has given an unconvincing explanation of what happened. A 
key reason I say that is because she has been inconsistent. I think that had her card been 
lost when she was evicted, and she was expecting money into her account that shed 
reasonably have taken some action about that. Even if due to difficult personal 
circumstances she couldnt do so for a number of days, she was able to be organised 
enough to go away on holiday  accepting that was fully paid for in advance. And her not having her card was a material factor when she was talking to Halifax about her blocked 
account and which I think shed have mentioned at the time if that was the case. And the 
other reason is that Im not persuaded that the pattern of entries to her account over a period 
of about two weeks is consistent with that of a fraudster. Her account received a cash credit. 
There was ongoing activity and the report of fraud only came after on her version of events 
someone else had free access to her account for all this time.
So, I think it most likely that Miss O either made these withdrawals herself or allowed 
someone else to do so on her behalf. Im satisfied she reasonably knew that the £400 wasnt 
genuinely her money and that as a result she benefitted from these funds which had been 
reported as fraudulent. 
Halifax says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss O received fraudulent funds into 
her account. So, Ive looked at whether Halifax was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Halifax needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Os account of events and the evidence Halifax has provided, Im 
satisfied that Halifax had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded and to 
close the accounts. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss O received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Halifax at 
the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Halifax had grounds to believe that Miss O had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
So, Im afraid I dont have a basis to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman