DRN-4055035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that their claim for accidental damage was unfairly settled by 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under their home insurance policy and didnt think Aviva 
were reasonable in not offering alternative accommodation.
What happened
An underground drainage pipe running under Mr and Mrs S drive collapsed, causing part of 
their drive to sink. So, they made a claim under their policy. Mr and Mrs S were advised by 
the water company the day before not to use the drain so didnt think they could use water in 
the house.
Aviva advised that it couldnt investigate the drain until the following week. When Mr and Mrs 
S asked whether they could use their own contractors they were informed they could, but 
they ran the risk that the claim wouldnt be met in full. Mr and Mrs S said they werent made 
aware at the time of the claim that they could benefit from alternative accommodation  but 
they were later told this couldve been arranged.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt want to be without water, they proceeded with their own contractor 
who fixed the damaged drain at a cost of over £2,000. On validating the claim, Aviva 
accepted the claim under accidental damage, but decided only to pay about a quarter of the 
costs less the policy excess. It said thats what it wouldve cost itself to get the repairs done. 
Aviva also wouldnt cover the work Mr and Mrs S contractor had completed (i.e., wouldnt 
cover future claims on that section of drain) as Aviva said the contractor had used 
inappropriate materials which it couldnt guarantee.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Aviva had settled the claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy (at a cost it wouldve cost Aviva to carry out 
the repair). She also said it was the insurers decision whether it takes the risk on offering 
cover, so she couldnt force Aviva to insure the replaced pipe. Mr and Mrs S disagreed, so 
the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered whether Aviva shouldve offered alternative accommodation at the 
point when the claim was reported. Ive listened carefully to the call that was made in 
reporting the claim. Mr and Mrs S informed the claim handler that the water company had 
attended the previous day and informed Mr and Mrs S they shouldnt continue using the 
water in their home. 
The conversation continued and Mr and Mrs S explained that they had continued using the 
water in their home for several days before getting that advice. The call handler asked if the 
water was backing up when the toilet was been flushed and Mr and Mrs S answered no. 
The claim handler said our advice is that you can continue using the facilities if there is no 
internal damage been caused and no overflow on your drive.
I think Aviva were clear it thought the water facilities were still useable. Therefore, under the 
terms and conditions of the policy, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been eligible for alternative 
accommodation as they still had use of the facilities. I think if they had told the call handler 
there were issues when the facilities were being used, I have no reason to doubt that Aviva 
wouldve considered if alternative accommodation was appropriate. However, based on the 
information presented, I dont think Aviva has been unreasonable. I dont think Mr and Mrs S 
have shown the facilities werent serviceable.
Ive considered whether I think the settlement provided by Aviva was fair. Again, Ive listened 
to the call when the claim was made. I think the call handler clearly explains the claims 
process. Mr and Mrs S are keen to get the pipe fixed quickly with their own contractor as 
they didnt want to wait at least a week before Aviva would deal with the broken pipe. 
The call handler is clear the claim wouldnt be validated until after the contractors work was 
completed and the photos of the contractors work reviewed. The call handler explains the 
settlement would be in accordance with our agreed rates, so she couldnt guarantee all the 
contractors costs would be reimbursed. Mr and Mrs S say they would rather take that 
chance and go ahead.
I have also checked the terms and conditions of the policy to see what they state in respect 
to how it settles claims. The policy states we will only pay you what it would have cost us to 
repair, rebuild or replace it. I have seen evidence from Avivas network contractor stating 
what it wouldve charged Aviva had it done the works. This amount is what Aviva offered Mr 
and Mrs S. Therefore, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S wanted the work completed quickly 
by their own contractor who was ready to start the job. I think Avivas call handler clearly set 
out the risks Mr and Mrs S were taking. I think the settlement is fair as its in alignment with 
what the policy sets out. So, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S were unhappy Aviva would not long insure / cover the replaced pipe. 
Aviva had identified Mr and Mrs S contractor had used the wrong pipe that wasnt 
specifically designed for underground works. Aviva were worried it may deteriorate quicker 
than normal. Aviva advised Mr and Mrs S to get their contractor to come back to address the 
issue raised. However, Mr and Mrs S have argued the pipe is fit for purpose. 
As Aviva arent happy with the material of the replaced pipe it wont insure it. The decision to 
insure anything is a commercial one for an insurer  it will assess the risk and decide 
whether it wishes to take on that risk for a set fee (premium). As Aviva werent happy with 
this risk it chose not to offer cover. This is the insurers prerogative, so I dont uphold this 
complaint. I think it has been reasonable in explaining its position to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman