DRN-3240212
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Cs account was used to take out phone contracts and loans.
In September 2019, Mr C received large sums of money that turned out to be the proceeds 
of fraud. This was then withdrawn at cash machines, spent at shops, or transferred out via 
his online banking.
Barclays closed Mr Cs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS for receiving 
and passing on the fraudulent funds.
Initially, Mr C said hed let a friend use his account to get a phone contract, as his friend 
needed a phone. He later said hed entered into a scheme with this friend to use their job in 
a phone shop to get cheap contracts, then sell the phones for a profit. At different points, he 
said hed either given this friend his card and PIN in order to help the friend get money, or to 
buy the phones, or in order for the friend to pay him back. He later said he didnt give his 
friend the card and PIN until later, when they threatened to blackmail him. Mr C wasnt sure 
how theyd accessed his online banking as he had never given them the security details. He 
suggested they may have hijacked the account using a PIN Sentry device.
In any case, Mr C said it was his friend whod made the transactions involved and he hadnt 
been aware of what was going on. He said hed realised it was as scam when the friend 
withdrew £740 they werent supposed to. He said the friend took the phones and loan money 
for themselves, stole his savings, and then blocked him.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found there wasnt a plausible way the friend could have accessed Mr Cs online banking 
without his permission. The online banking had been used to pass on some of the fraudulent 
funds, and it looked like Mr C had been checking it frequently and was aware of what was 
going on.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed trusted the friend, was unaware of the fraud, and had just 
wanted his £740 back. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr C and Barclays a provisional decision on 18 November 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Barclays were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr C had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think the marker is justified. Ill explain why.
First, I want to clarify that this marker was not added due to the phone contracts or loans 
involved. It related to the money Mr C received in September 2019. Those funds came from 
victims of crime, who were defrauded into paying money to Mr C.
Mr Cs online banking was used to check when the funds had arrived. These fraudulent 
funds were then transferred between Mr Cs accounts via his online banking, and some of 
the money was then spent using his online banking too.
In order to do this, the person using the online banking needed Mr Cs security details. And 
Mr C was clear that he had not given out his online banking security details, nor given 
access to his online banking to anyone else. It had also been over a year since Mr C had 
last logged in, so the friend could not have recently overlooked Mr C entering the details and 
learned them that way. The friend could not have taken control of Mr Cs online banking by 
using a PIN Sentry device, as hes suggested. And the vast majority of the activity involved 
was verified using his security details, rather than by a PIN Sentry device. Mr C also 
suggested the friend may have made the transactions involved using a mobile payment 
account from a different company, but thats not the case. These payments were made using 
Mr Cs Barclays online banking, and were not made from a mobile app.
So based on the online banking records and what Mr C has told us, the only person who 
could have reasonably been accessing his online banking was Mr C himself. And that would 
mean that Mr C actively took part in receiving and passing on the fraudulent funds.
Further, Mr C appears to have been frequently checking his online banking throughout the 
period of the fraud. So it looks like he was aware of what was going on with his account.
Mr C said he realised his friend was doing fraud when they withdrew over £700 from his 
account. But that was in the August. And his account was still receiving and passing on 
fraudulent money through to mid-September. So if Mr C had already realised his account 
was being used illegitimately, its very difficult to see why he didnt do anything to stop his 
friend or get his card or account blocked as the weeks went on. Further, the only way Mr C 
would have reasonably known about the £740 withdrawal was if he was checking his online 
banking  again, suggesting that it was him whod been using the online banking.
Mr C was using his account very frequently before the fraud. And the fraud took place over a 
period spanning weeks. So if Mr C had given his card and PIN to his friend for all that time, 
its not clear what he was doing for money or how he was paying his normal day-to-day 
expenses in the meantime. During the period of the fraud, it looks like Mr Cs card was still 
being used for some of his normal spending, like for travel or supermarkets. This tends to 
suggest that Mr C was still in control of the account as the fraud was going on.Mr Cs testimony has been inconsistent or contradictory in places. For example, he initially 
told Barclays hed been helping his friend as theyd needed a phone, and only later told them 
it had been a scheme to sell phones using cheap contracts. At different points, he said hed 
given the friend his card and PIN in order to help them withdraw some funds they were trying 
to access, or to buy phones, or to pay him back, or because theyd somehow blackmailed 
him into giving it to them. I appreciate that Mr C says he struggles to remember things after 
the time thats passed. But it makes it very difficult for me to take any one of his versions of 
events as being the correct one.
Mr C did supply some limited screenshots of texts with the friend. But in places, the texts 
dont really support what he said happened  rather the opposite.
For example, Mr C said that hed given his friend his card and PIN, and the friend was the 
one making all the payments for the phones and so on  so Mr C was unaware of what was 
going on. But in the texts, it looks like Mr C was the one taking out these phone contracts, as 
Mr C relayed to the friend what deposit the phone company had asked him for, got advice on 
what phone to request, and asked what he should do next. So it looks like Mr C was actually 
involved in how his account was being used and was aware of what was going on  not least 
since later transactions used his online banking, which it seems only he had access to.
Notably, in some texts from after the fraud had finished, Mr C expressed his annoyance 
towards the friend, saying that because of them messing up, the bank had blocked his card. 
But Mr C told us hed been aware as early as August 2019 that his friend was misusing his 
card and stealing from him  in which case surely hed have wanted his card to be blocked 
to stop the friend from doing any more harm.
In summary, by his own admission Mr C gave someone permission to use his account for a 
moneymaking scheme. His account was then used to receive and pass on fraudulent funds. 
Mr Cs online banking was used to do this, and the only likely or plausible way this could 
have happened was with Mr Cs knowledge and consent. He appears to have been an active 
participant in what happened. Mr C also appears to have been frequently checking his 
account throughout the activity, so he would have been aware of what was going on. He 
didnt try to stop what happened, even after the point where he says he became aware it 
was a scam. Mr Cs testimony has been inconsistent and contradictory at points. And Ive 
not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr C couldve 
authorised the fraud, or given someone else permission to do so.
So I currently think it was fair for Barclays to register the appropriate fraud marker. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr C to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
16 December 2021. We then granted a further extension. But neither Mr C nor Barclays 
sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, for the reasons I set out in the provisional 
decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman