DRN-3201449
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a 
subsidence claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A made a claim to RSA for subsidence. RSA accepted the claim. It appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage it. It found that the damage had been caused by leaking drains.
Mr A complained to RSA because he wasnt happy with the way it was dealing with his 
claim. RSA issued a final response to that complaint on 16 January 2019. 
In July 2019 Mr A complained to RSA again. He wasnt happy with the documentation 
issued in connection with the repair works. He said the loss adjuster had ignored his emails 
about this. He asked RSA to carry out another drainage survey and wanted it to contact his 
local water company about the connection between his drains and the public sewer. He also 
said hed let RSAs contractor use some garden tools (two pairs of long-handled secateurs 
and a pickaxe) and theyd not been returned.
In response RSA said the documentation was adequate and all the repairs had been 
finished. It advised Mr A to contact its contractor regarding the missing garden tools.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision upholding the 
complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In this decision Im only able to look at how RSA treated Mr A between 16 January and 12 
November 2019 (being the date of the second final decision letter). That means Im not able 
to comment on points Mr A has raised about the first final decision letter. 
Ill deal with the points hes raised in turn.
not responding to emails regarding the documentation
Mr A says the documentation in connection with his claim suffered from multiple 
inaccuracies or inconsistencies. Ive no reason to doubt that was the case since his points 
were later accepted. The documentation is important, particularly if Mr A wanted to sell his 
home or if further faults develop in future. He sent several emails about this to RSAs loss 
adjuster between February and July 2019. It took six months and a further complaint before 
he received a reply. It seems to me that this was more than just a delay on RSAs part - in 
effect it was refusing to enter into further communication with him. 
When responding, RSAs loss adjuster didnt deny that there were mistakes in the 
documentation. But it also didnt acknowledge that Mr A shouldnt have had to go to the 
trouble of pointing out these mistakes and having done so, he shouldnt have been ignored 
for a long time. I can understand that this would have been unnecessarily stressful for Mr A.
another drainage survey
Mr A thought the documentation provided by RSAs loss adjuster didnt provide satisfactory 
confirmation that work had been carried out successfully to remedy the faults with the drains 
that had been identified in previous surveys. He thought a further survey would clarify this. 
He has since had a survey carried out at his own expense. The survey found that the drains 
were all in a satisfactory condition.
We dont usually require a business to pay for further investigations unless they lead to a 
change in outcome of the claim or the complaint. Since Mr As drainage survey confirmed 
what RSA had said, I wont require RSA to pay the cost of it.
contacting the local water company
Mr As drainage survey recommended contacting his local water company as the connection 
to the public sewer was found to be cracked and would be leaking. Its not clear that this 
damage is something that would be covered under Mr As policy or that the damage resulted 
from RSAs repairs. So I dont think RSA treated Mr A unfairly in refusing to take the 
recommended action on his behalf.
missing garden tools
In response to our investigators view RSA said it was prepared to reimburse Mr A for the 
missing garden tools subject to him providing a reasonable invoice or receipt for them. I think 
this would be a satisfactory outcome.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
All in all, I can see that poor service on the part of RSA and its suppliers made this claim 
much more stressful for Mr A than it needed to be. Having taken all the circumstances into 
account I think compensation of £250 would be fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr A by its refusal to engage with him for about six months and for the 
inconvenience of not having his missing garden tools.
In response RSA said it was happy to reimburse Mr A for the missing tools which it referred 
to as a pair of long-handled secateurs and a pickaxe subject to a reasonable receipt/invoice 
being provided. It also accepted the proposed award of compensation but said it couldnt 
make payment by cheque.
In summary Mr A made the following points:
The loss adjuster had apologised for its poor service but RSA had consistently denied that 
the loss adjuster was at fault. This denial had caused much distress to Mr A.
Mr As drainage survey had identified a fault in the drains which might be RSAs 
responsibility to repair. If the repairs were his responsibility as owner of the property and 
were covered by his policy, that could lead to a change in outcome of the claim. Mr A 
suggested it would not be unreasonable for RSA to be required to pay for the survey in 
those circumstances.
Mr A asked me to make it clear that RSA might or might not be responsible for repairing 
the damage identified in his drainage survey.
Regardless of whether the repairs were RSAs responsibility, he thought it would be 
simpler and more practical for RSA to contact the water company because if the works 
were his responsibility as owner and were covered by the policy, RSA would have to be in 
touch with the water company anyway.Hed never suggested that the damage might have resulted from RSAs repairs.
He hadnt asked RSA to contact the water company and it hadnt refused to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im particularly grateful to Mr A for his helpful feedback on my provisional findings. 
I can appreciate that RSAs refusal to accept that its loss adjuster had been at fault would 
have caused unnecessary additional distress to Mr A. Ive taken this into account when 
considering the amount of compensation it should pay him.
Mr As drainage contractor carried out a CCTV survey on the foul drainage system which 
found they were in satisfactory condition. But it noticed a crack where the drains connected 
to the public sewer. In so far as the present complaint is concerned, I think this report has 
confirmed RSAs opinion that its repairs had been successful and so I dont think it would be 
fair to require RSA to pay for it. If a repair to the connection is Mr As responsibility and the 
damage is covered by his policy, then he may wish to ask RSA at that stage to reimburse 
him for the report and if hes unhappy with the response, he may wish to bring a further 
complaint regarding that but I hope that wont be necessary.
As part of this complaint I havent considered whether or not RSA might be responsible for 
repairing the damage identified in his drainage survey.
If the damage to the connection is Mr As responsibility and covered by the policy with RSA, 
then it will be up to RSA to decide whether to repair the damage or make a cash settlement. 
So I cant assume that in those circumstances RSA would necessarily be in touch with the 
water company. 
I should make it clear that Mr A hasnt suggested that the damage to the connection might 
have been caused by RSAs repairs. I merely mentioned this because if that were found to 
be the case, Id consider it reasonable for RSA to try to sort out any resulting issues on his 
behalf.
Im happy to clarify that so far as Im aware Mr A hasnt asked RSA to contact the water 
company and it hasnt refused to do so.
Lastly in its response to my provisional decision RSA has referred to a pickaxe and long-
handled secateurs. Mr A has consistently referred to a pickaxe and two pairs of long-handled 
secateurs. For the avoidance of doubt I think RSA should reimburse Mr A for a pickaxe and 
two pairs of long-handled secateurs. I dont think its unreasonable of RSA to require a 
receipt or other satisfactory evidence of the amount claimed in this respect.
Overall, having taken into account the feedback to my provisional findings and subject to the 
above, I see no reason to change them and they now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think RSA should pay £250 compensation to Mr A and apologise to him. 
It should also reimburse Mr A for the missing pickaxe and two pairs of long-handled 
secateurs subject to him providing a receipt or other reasonable evidence of the amount 
claimed in this respect. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take the actions 
referred to above in the section headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman