DRN-4347336
The complaint
Ms M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) was irresponsible 
in its lending to her.
What happened
Ms M was provided with an AMEX credit card by AESEL in June 2016. The initial credit limit 
was £1,000. The credit limit was then increased on five occasions resulting in a maximum 
credit limit of £13,500 in 2019. The credit limit was then reduced on three occasions bringing 
it to £5,160 in 2021. 
Ms M says that she was provided with continuous credit limit increases without her age and 
salary being taken into account. She says this resulted in her getting into unreasonable debt 
noting that her limit exceeded her annual income at one point. She says that regular credit 
and affordability checks should have taken place to prevent thousands of pounds being lent 
to her when she couldnt afford to repay it. Ms M says that although her credit limit was 
reduced, at some stage the interest rate was increased resulting in her struggling to pay 
more interest. 
AESEL provided a final response in May 2023. It said that Ms M applied for a credit card 
through its website and the terms and conditions were available to her. It said it carried out 
the required credit worthiness checks and Ms Ms credit limit was provided based on the 
information received through her application and the credit check results. It said that there 
was the option to reduce the credit limit had Ms M wished to do this. It said it carried out 
regular conduct credit reviews and that Ms Ms credit limit was decreased to £5,860 on 10 
July 2020 and then to £5,160 on 22 January 2021 after concerns were raised by its credit 
review department. It said that it hadnt done anything wrong by providing the credit to Ms M 
and so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with this response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator issued a jurisdiction view saying that he was only able to consider the merits 
of the complaint from the credit limit increase in June 2017, due to when the events 
happened, and the complaint was raised. This was accepted by both parties.
Our investigator said that AESEL hadnt been able to provide evidence of the checks carried 
out before the June 2017 credit limit increase or subsequent increases and based on the 
information available he didnt think the credit card should have been provided. He upheld 
this complaint in regard to the credit limit increase in June 2017 and all subsequent 
increases.  
AESEL said that evidence of its checks had been provided and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL needed to demonstrate that before they accepted Ms Ms application for the credit 
card, and when subsequent credit limit increases were applied, that they had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that the credit provided would be affordable 
and that this was not irresponsible lending.
Given the timing of the events and when this complaint was raised, this decision relates to 
the credit limit increases that took place in June 2017 and subsequent to that date.
There is limited information available of checks that were undertaken before the credit limit 
increase to £2,200 was applied in June 2017. The credit check results that have been 
provided are for when the account was opened and these record Ms M as having 
outstanding debts of £27,824. While the credit report doesnt show any accounts in default or 
judgements against Ms M, I think the level of debt should have raised concerns. Given this I 
think it was important to get a clear understanding of Ms Ms financial circumstances to 
ensure that any additional lending was affordable for her.
AESEL has said that it wouldnt have carried out an income verification at that time and 
based on the information provided it appears that an annual income of £21,000 was likely 
used in the initial assessment when the account was opened and for the subsequent credit 
limit increases (this amount is recorded as the arbitrated income for the 2018 and 2019 
increases). While I appreciate the comments made about the regulations in place at the 
time, given Ms Ms level of debt I think it was important that AESEL had a clear 
understanding of her income and expenses. I have therefore looked through the additional 
information that has been provided to establish what AESEL would likely have found had it 
carried out reasonable checks.
Ms Ms bank statements show that she was receiving monthly income of just over £1,200 in 
the months leading up to the June 2017 credit limit increase. This is a lower amount than 
would have been expected from an annual income of £21,000. Ms M was making regular 
payments for items such as insurance, communications contracts, credit commitments and 
general living expenses. Given the time that has passed, and limited information provided, I 
cannot say for certain the amount of other credit Ms M had outstanding at the time of the 
credit limit increase. But her outgoings were around the same or higher than her income for 
the months leading up to June 2017 and Ms M was regularly needing to use her overdraft 
and incurred fees as a result.  
As I think the initial checks undertaken when the credit card account was provided raised 
concerns about Ms Ms total debt compared to her income, that further checks would have 
shown her income to be lower than AESEL had recorded and as her statements show that at 
the time of the June 2017 credit limit increase, Ms M didnt appear to have capacity to take 
on further credit, I find, on balance, that AESEL shouldnt have considered the credit limit 
increase in June 2017 as sustainably affordable. 
AESEL then increased Ms Ms credit limit six months later to £3,000 at the same time as she 
had taken out another loan and then to £9,000 in November 2018 a month after she had 
taken out a further loan for £3,500. Ms M had also taken on additional credit card debt in 
October 2017. I think this suggests Ms Ms dependency on debt was increasing. By the time 
of the final credit limit increase, Ms Ms income had increased to just over £1,500 a month 
but her outgoings had also increased, and she was making greater use of her overdraft every month.
On balance, I find that the initial checks carried out when the credit card was provided raised 
concerns and I think that had checks been undertaken before the credit limit increases these 
would have suggested that providing further credit to Ms M wasnt responsible. Therefore, I 
am upholding this complaint from the credit limit increase in June 2017.
Putting things right
As I dont think AESEL should have increased Ms Ms credit limit above £1,500, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit.
Therefore, AESEL should rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and 
insurances (not already refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,500.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms M along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. AESEL should also remove all adverse information recorded after June 2017 
regarding this account from Ms Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,500, AESEL should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Ms M for the remaining amount. Once Ms M has cleared 
the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after June 2017 in relation to the 
account should be removed from their credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AESEL to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman