DRN-2560401
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK Plc are reporting her account to the credit 
reference agencies.
What happened
In 2014, Barclays defaulted two current accounts Ms B had with them. And they reported the 
defaults to the credit reference agencies. Ms B was working with a debt charity and paid 
Barclays regular monthly payments. In February/March 2017, shed paid Barclays what she 
thought she owed them, and stopped making regular payments. But, because the amounts 
she paid were slightly less than the amounts owing (by a few pounds), Barclays reported 
that the accounts had been partially settled to the credit reference agencies.
Ms B complained that Barclays didnt remove the adverse markers when she settled the 
account  she said that Barclays told her they would do this in August 2018. Ms B has also 
said that she wasnt able to obtain a preferential mortgage rate in both 2018 and 2020 
because of what Barclays reported. 
Ms B wanted Barclays to remove the adverse markers from her credit file and compensate 
her for the effect this had had on her finances and well-being. But Barclays didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. So Ms B brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Barclays told Ms B in 2014 that they would report her arrears to the 
credit reference agencies. Ms B was working with a debt charity at the time, and the 
investigator said it was reasonable to believe that the charity would also have explained to 
Ms B of what would be reported, and how long this would remain on record. So she didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong.
The investigator hadnt seen anything to show Barclays had agreed to remove the adverse 
credit markers from Ms Bs records. And while she didnt doubt that, to the best of Ms Bs 
recollection, Barclays said theyd do this; without anything to show this conversation 
happened, the investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more about this.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Barclays shouldve advised her that the 
final amounts due on both accounts had changed at some point. So the Partial Settlement 
marker shouldve been changed to Settled from May 2018, but never was.
After reviewing the additional evidence Ms B supplied, the investigator said the debt charity 
had told Ms B in December 2016 that the estimated balances with Barclays had been 
cleared. But Barclays had told Ms B that daily interest was being applied to these balances. 
So the investigator was satisfied that Barclays had made Ms B aware the amounts would 
change. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Ms B still didnt agree with the investigator and shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Barclays shouldve defaulted Ms B on her accounts. Ms B has provided 
a number of copies of her credit reference file from various dates throughout 2018. And 
these show the following:
Barclays defaulted Ms B for £144 on 15 April 2014, which was partially settled in 
February 2017.
Barclays defaulted Ms B for £149 on 15 April 2014, which was partially settled in 
March 2017.
But the credit reference files also show:
a £4,289 default in August 2012,
a £658 default in November 2012,
a £2,746 default in March 2014; and
a £2,995 default in March 2014.
A copy of Ms Bs credit reference file for March 2020 shows that the two Barclays defaults 
from April 2014 were recorded as Settled instead of Partial Settlement; and that all of the 
other defaults were no longer showing. The two Barclays defaults would also have fallen off 
Ms Bs credit file in April 2020.
Ms B has said she paid the Barclays the difference in August 2018, to completely settle the 
two defaults, and to move them from partially settled to settled. Based on the details Ive 
seen, Barclays updated the credit reference agencies to show this difference. But I dont 
know exactly when this happened, or when the credit reference agencies updated this  
based on the credit reports Ive seen I can only say that this update happened sometime 
between 25 September 2018 and 4 March 2020.
Ive also seen that Barclays wrote to Ms B in 2014, providing her with a Termination Notice 
for each of her accounts. These confirmed the current outstanding balances, as well as 
confirming daily interest would be charged until the balance was cleared. The daily interest 
was only charged for a short period of time between the Termination Notice being issued 
and the accounts being defaulted.
So, while Ms B had paid Barclays the amount showing in the Termination Notices, this was a 
few pounds short of the actual outstanding balances because of the daily interest charge. 
Because of this, I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong by recording the accounts as 
partially settled  because all of the outstanding balance hadnt been paid, and Ms B had 
stopped making regular payments, they couldnt accurately record this as a full settlement. 
But, as Ive said, at some point between September 2018 and March 2020, the partial 
settlement was changed to a full settlement to reflect the fact that Ms B had paid the 
remaining outstanding balances.Ms B has also said that, because Barclays didnt accurately report that shed fully settled the 
accounts, she wasnt able to obtain the mortgage she wanted in 2018 or 2020. But she also 
had four other defaults  three of which were for substantial amounts  that I havent seen 
any evidence were settled. Two of these would still be showing on her credit file during 2018, 
and the other two showed until March 2020 (the month before the two Barclays defaults 
stopped showing).
Because of this, I think its more likely than not that the presence of a number of large and 
unsatisfied defaults was a key factor in Ms B not being able to get the mortgages she was 
looking for; and this wasnt because the Barclays accounts were potentially reported as 
partially settled instead of settled.
So, for the reasons stated, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman