DRN-3909889
The complaint
Miss J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) will not refund her money she says she 
lost as a result of falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss J says she has fallen victim to a recovery scam.  She says she was deceived 
by a fraudulent company.  That is, they told her they could recover money she had lost to an 
investment scam if she paid them (the fraudster) a deposit.  Consequently, Miss J says she 
lost approximately £2,800.  The payments concerned were made via transfer and debit and 
credit card; and were all made to cryptocurrency exchanges in December 2020.
Miss J raised this matter with HSBC and requested a refund of the money she says she lost, 
which HSBC declined.  Unhappy with this, Miss J referred her complaint to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Miss J did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In summary, I am not persuaded that HSBC should refund Miss J the transactions in 
question for the following reasons:
I do not find that any of the transactions were so unusual that HSBC should have 
stopped them and spoken to Miss J before releasing the payments.  I say this 
because:
oNone of the transactions  relative to the activity on both accounts  in 
isolation, were significantly high enough to trigger HSBCs systems.
oThe transactions did not follow an out-of-character pattern.
oThe activity on both of Miss Js accounts show she had made payments to 
cryptocurrency merchants previously  including one of the exchanges 
concerned in this case.  Some of these payments were as recent as August 
2020.
oThe transactions were all made to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges.
For the sake of completeness, I have considered whether Miss J would have had any 
recourse under chargeback in relation to her debit card payments.  Having done so, I 
am satisfied that she would not have any reasonable prospect of success  as the 
cryptocurrency exchanges she paid carried out their services as intended; further, the 
120-day timeframe required to raise a claim from the date the transactions concerned 
were made: had elapsed.
Taking all the above factors together, I am of the view that HSBC has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking HSBC to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman