DRN-2579666
The complaint
Mrs A says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In May 1996 Mrs A took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly repayments on a store card. 
The policy cost no more than £1 each month for every £100 Mrs A owed on her card. And it 
would pay 15% of the statement balance if she successfully claimed.
The PPI couldve covered Mrs A if she was off work sick or if she lost her job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. It also provided some other protection but Im concentrating in my 
decision on whether the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that the costs and benefits of the policy 
hadnt been made clear to Mrs A. And, if they had been, our adjudicator didnt think Mrs A 
wouldve taken the policy out because it wasnt good value for money in her particular 
circumstances.
In response, AXA mainly said that it wasnt plausible that Mrs A wouldve been able to rely 
on getting 6 months sick pay when shed only been in her job for 6 months. And, without 
details showing what her other means were, AXA said there wasnt any evidence that 
showed Mrs A didnt have a need for the policy. Our adjudicator passed on to AXA the 
additional information Mrs A has been able to tell us but AXA still disagreed with our 
adjudicators view.  
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken out when Mrs A was shopping in the store. 
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policy to enable 
her to decide for herself if she should take it out.
I dont think AXA gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policy. 
I dont know exactly how AXA explained the PPI. But I dont think its likely that the policys 
true cost and benefits were explained clearly enough to allow Mrs A to work out whether PPI 
offered her any useful benefit that it wouldve been worthwhile for her to buy. 
I say this because although its possible AXA may have told Mrs A the cost was no more 
than £1 per £100 of the outstanding balance on the card, I dont know how likely it is that 
AXA explained the premium shed pay for PPI would be added to the card balance and could 
attract interest. And it isnt clear if AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 
15% in real terms as Mrs A would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the 
policy benefit.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs A because she told us that she had sick pay and some 
savings that she couldve used to help her make repayments. Looking at her circumstances 
at the time and taking into account the amount of savings she mentioned, I think Mrs A 
couldve managed without the PPI for long enough not to really need it. 
I've taken into account everything AXA has said in response to our adjudicators view. 
In the circumstances of this case, I think its likely that Mrs A wouldve been able to rely on 
being paid for 6 months if she was unable to work through illness or after an accident. 
This wouldnt have been a particularly unusual term in the sort of job she had  and I dont 
think its unreasonable to expect that she wouldve qualified for this benefit after shed been 
working for her employers for 6 months. 
Mrs A has explained how she came to have a lump sum of money which she couldve used 
to help pay her store card monthly repayments for at least 6 months. What shes told us 
seems plausible to me. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Mrs A wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her 
enough clear information about the cost and benefits. 
So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs A in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
What AXA needs to do depends on whether the store card is still open or if it has been 
closed. 
So Ive set out what AXA should pay in either event.
If the account has been closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. AXA should then refund the 
difference between what Mrs A owed when she closed her account and what she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs A 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs A that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the account is still open:
 It looks like the policy is no longer active (otherwise it should now be cancelled).
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs A would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs A owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs A paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs A paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A wouldve owed AXA 
something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A and B.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs A that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint. AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman