DRN-4181134
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed duplicate international 
payments and that it provided poor customer service and misleading information.
What happened
A says it wanted to make one payment of Euro 852 to a supplier abroad. It made that 
payment online and as it didnt seem to have gone through made further attempts. It 
complained when the payment hadnt gone through and spoke to a number of members of 
staff. The director of A says he was clear that this payment should only go through once not 
four times as it has done. He wants to be compensated for what happened.
HSBC said that it had received payment instructions and that the payments were delayed 
while it made compliance checks. It said it couldnt provide timescales for how long this 
would take. It said that the director had called on 9 February 2023 and was unfortunately cut 
off. It apologised that he had to go through the information again. HSBC accepted that A had 
received poor service and paid it £100.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more than pay £100 it had offered 
to when it provided its business file to this service. He said that each time A had made a 
payment it would have received the following warning:
This payment has been sent for processing. Your account may not be debited today.
Refer to Help ? at the top of this page for further information. Your payee's bank should
receive the funds within 1 to 4 working days, subject to checks.
The payment can't be reversed and if the payment goes to an unintended payee it may
not be possible to recover the funds.
Approximate total amount EUR XXX (amount of each payment).
To meet our legal requirements, the details of this payment may be shared with
authorities in the UK and overseas.
He said that HSBC had made checks in relation to each of the payments that A had made. 
And so, A did need to go through things more than once. A had confirmed with HSBC that it 
didnt want the payments recalled as there was going to be a charge and the money was 
already with its supplier. HSBC recognised that it had provided inconsistent information on 
its calls and poor communication, and he thought the compensation was fair. 
Our investigator said that complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity and that we 
dont have a role in saying what processes HSBC should have in place as we arent the 
regulator. He could see that HSBC had received authorisation for these payments. And so, 
he didnt think either that an interest free loan for the duplicated ones totalling Euro 2,556 
and additional compensation of a similar amount was warranted. 
A didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director maintained that an 
employee of HSBC had refused to log a complaint when there was no clear indication of 
what had happened to the payment after five days. He said that our investigator was 
implying that HSBCs service shouldnt improve, and he said that its processes were broken 
and there was no communication. Taking the funds from the account without consent 
caused significant reputational and financial damage. HSBCs system wasnt showing that 
there were identical payments being held for a check and its employees had on record that 
only one payment should be made. The information A had provided was ignored. And it was 
fair for it to expect that all the consecutive repeat payments would be cancelled. A wanted to 
know how payments could have been recalled after receipt. It said that the money had been 
in HSBCs control and the payments could have been stopped at any time. A wanted the 
complaint escalated to Senior Management in HSBC so that it started to treat its customers 
fairly. And the director wanted to see its internal review and to have a written apology. It still 
wanted the interest free loan and higher compensation.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2023. I set out below what I said.
HSBC had been asked for further information about the calls it had with A and how it 
communicated what had happened. And what it had done following a further complaint call 
of 3 March 2023 before the case was referred to this service. It said that it wasnt able to 
establish what A asked and what it was told as the calls couldnt be located. HSBC hadnt 
taken any action regarding the complaint call. And so, it offered to pay a further £300 in 
compensation making a total of £400. Our investigator put this to A which said it wouldnt 
accept this and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said that HSBCs refusal to provide 
information and now it offering more compensation was alarming and proves it had given 
false and misleading information. It had covered up the way that A was treated and had poor 
systems, processing and staff training.
I said I was going to need to make my decision on the information that is available as 
unsuccessful efforts have been made to obtain the call recordings. I agreed with what our 
investigator has said about our role. We provide informal dispute resolution, and we arent 
the regulator. I could only consider any complaint handling issues as ancillary ones. We 
dont have a role in setting processes, but I could look at how those processes were 
delivered. This complaint is now referred to this service so I wouldnt be expecting HSBC to 
escalate this further or have a further internal review.
Timeline
I set out some of the key dates here about what I understood happened:
3 February 2023 (Friday at 17:53) A makes the first payment request.
6 February 2023 (16:49). Second payment request.
7 February 2023 (8:40 and 15:32). Third and fourth payment requests.
8 February 2023 (16:39). Fifth payment request.
9 February 2023. A makes a call about the payment but is disconnected.
10 February 2023. A calls about the payment and one of the ones on 7 February 2023 is 
treated as a duplicate and cancelled.
14 February 2023. The first payment is debited. A receives a first final response to its 
complaint paying it £100 and confirming the payment was debited.
15 February 2023. Second payment debited. C raises this over the following period, but I dont have further details of that.
22 February 2023. Third payment debited.
27 February 2023. Fourth payment debited.
28 February 2023. Second final response letter issued which only refers to three payments.
3 March 2023. A calls HSBC about the complaint before referring it to this service and a 
recording of this call has been provided by A to this service.
7 March 203. A contacts this service and refers the complaint.
The process and communication
I concluded that A did authorise five payments although I also accepted that this wasnt its 
intention. It clearly needed to send the money to a supplier and didnt think it had gone as it 
hadnt debited the account and nothing was showing as pending. But I had seen each 
payment instruction and, as set out above, the warning which accompanied them. HSBC has 
confirmed that there would be no pending payment showing on the account during a review 
or reserved credit from the account.
The correct position when the director called was for HSBC to say that all payments were 
pending. And that under its terms and conditions and process A couldnt cancel the 
payments or withdraw its authorisation. I noted that one identified as a duplicate was 
cancelled. HSBC could try and recall the payments on a best endeavours basis and that 
could still be done if the beneficiary agreed and as A had understood there would be a cost.
The payments were subject to checks, and it seems this had to be done for each payment.
I couldnt know what was said in the conversations between HSBC and A. But I was clear 
that A would only want one of the payments to go through. The director ought to have been 
warned of the pending payments so that he knew the impact on As cashflow. To the extent 
that the payment(s) were pending, and he was asking about the delay I could see that a 
complaint was addressed by 14 February 2023 and that gave him referral rights to this 
service as did a further final response letter. Given what Ive said about complaint handling I 
didnt have a basis to find that this was unreasonable. I also didnt doubt that if he asked 
staff about the delay hed had been told that a complaint about compliance checks would 
likely not be upheld.
My assessment
On one view all payments could have debited the account within a matter of days. And if that 
happened A would in my view not have any recourse to HSBC other than to ask that they be 
recalled. What has caused confusion here is the communication with A during the period 
before the payments were debited and the related time for compliance checks. A either 
didnt understand or accept from those calls that there were going to be multiple payments. 
I understood that A said to HSBC that it would offset the additional payments sent to a 
supplier as an advance on future work. I didnt see why recalling those payments wouldnt 
likely have been successful given that its supplier would have seen the duplication. And the 
charge for that would fairly be down to A which made them. I said I wasnt going to be 
holding HSBC responsible for any financial loss to A relating to this. And as I said its 
payment processes and what its systems show are a matter for it to determine.I needed to consider inconvenience. I made clear that A is a separate legal entity that cant 
suffer distress and that I wouldnt be able to take into account the impact on the director who 
isnt the complainant here. There has been poor communication and service. And I accepted 
that A didnt clearly understand these payments would be debiting. It made a number of calls 
and there was miscommunication. However, the outcome that the payments did debit albeit 
with a delay wasnt incorrect. Taking all this into account I thought that the offer of £400 in 
total compensation from HSBC is a fair one and reflects this. And I said I wouldnt be 
directing it to provide any further apology which in my view would only be meaningful if 
voluntarily offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC confirmed it accepted my provisional decision.
A said it accepted this. It helpfully pointed out that in the what happened section of my 
provisional decision I had said that the overall increase in compensation payable for A was 
£200, and not as I had then provisionally decided £300. I have amended that above in italics.
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay A a 
further £300 in compensation making a total of £400 as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman