DRN-3707859
The complaint
Mr B complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) havent responded to his offer to 
settle a loan, about how theyve managed payments on his account and investigated his 
concerns.
What happened
In 2009 Mr B took a loan with RBS. At some point, an arrangement to pay was reached.  Mr 
B says he wrote to RBS with an offer to settle the loan in 2020 but it never responded. He 
complained to them about that and the way theyd managed his account, including the 
instruction of an external debt collection agency to monitor his payment plan on RBSs 
behalf.                                                                                                                                               
In its final response on 21 July 2021  - in which RBS reactivated Mr Bs complaint from May 
2021 - it upheld his concerns as it wasnt able to determine why hed been advised to make 
the agreed monthly payments under the arrangement to pay into his current account. RBS 
apologised and agreed Mr B hadnt received the best possible service from them on this 
point. It also arranged to transfer the payments credited to the current account to the loan 
account to correct the position. It told Mr B payment plans were no longer managed inhouse 
so it had been a commercial decision to instruct the external agency to manage his payment 
plan. 
RBS confirmed its system recorded numerous offers of settlement from Mr B, the most 
recent being on 29 July 2020 which was accepted and a letter issued to Mr B confirming this 
confirming this on the same date. And, in respect of Mr Bs numerous previous complaints, 
RBS said it wasnt able to see hed been given false or misleading responses and gave him 
referral rights to this service. Mr B brought the matter to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think there was any evidence RBS 
had done anything wrong here. He thought RBS had followed their processes and was 
satisfied the letter - accepting the settlement - was sent to Mr B. The investigator said he 
couldnt hold RBS at fault if this didnt arrive with Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He thought his complaint had been 
misinterpreted. And that a key plank of his complaint - that the same person kept 
investigating his concerns about their handling of the case - hadnt been addressed. He 
thought that approach by RBS was strongly suggestive of an abuse of process and showed 
contempt for a service user. And he said that was something which had been criticised by 
courts and regulators. 
He said he was most concerned about mis dated and or re-created letters allegedly 
accepting his settlement offer. And he referred to a number of RBS letters where he felt they 
been inconsistent in their approach or where he disagreed with the approach. Overall, he felt 
RBS had failed to deal with these accounts properly and hadnt competently responded to 
his complaint. He pointed to his repayment record on this and other debts with RBS. He 
thought if RBS had agreed to the settlement offered this would have been finalised some 
time ago.
The investigator reviewed his findings but didnt change them. Mr B asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr B has strong feelings about this complaint. I can confirm Ive read and 
considered his submissions in their entirety. Im mindful that Mr B feels our investigator 
hasnt dealt with all parts of and misinterpreted his complaint. So, I trust he wont take the 
fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
In the both the FRLs sent in May and July 2021 RBS upheld the complaints. So, theres no 
dispute they got some things wrong here. But overall, I think theyve responded reasonably 
to Mr Bs concerns so Im not going to ask them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Its my role to put consumers back into the position they shouldve been in if mistakes hadnt 
been made. RBS agree theyve failed to manage payments into the correct accounts. But 
they made arrangements for the payments to be allocated to the correct loan account and 
have explained this to Mr B. So, overall, I think theyve responded reasonably to Mr Bs 
concerns here and Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
Although this current complaint is about the decision by RBS to move this account - and the 
management of his repayment plan - to a debt collection agency, I think the central issue for 
Mr B is whether, following his offer to settle this loan in July 2020, RBS responded. He thinks 
they didnt. In respect of those other parts of the complaint I dont think RBS have done 
anything wrong and Ill explain why I think that for each aspect in turn.
Acceptance of July 2020 offer to settle
Mr B has left no doubt about how strongly he feels about the offer he made to settle back in 
2020 not being actioned despite it being acceptable to RBS at the time. I can see the how 
later copies of the acceptance letter generated to go with the FRL might give cause for 
concern. But, on balance, RBSs records - particularly the internal debt manager notes -
satisfy me not only did Mr B make an offer to settle this loan in 2020 but also, that this was 
considered by RBS who responded to accept it by post on 29 July 2020. 
I know Mr B says he didnt receive the letter accepting his settlement from RBS but, on 
balance, on the above evidence, Im satisfied it was sent. I dont know why it is that Mr B 
didnt receive the letter. Im not aware of any problems with his post. Or, indeed, why he 
didnt chase a response from RBS sooner when hed had no reply and was keen to settle 
and bring this relationship to a close. But, either way, I cant safely conclude the failure to 
receive the letter is a result of something RBS has done wrong. So, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold RBS responsible for this.
Incorrect information about the payments and debt collection
Mr B thinks the investigator made a half-hearted attempt at explaining the payment history of 
the loan. But its clear from the information Ive seen payments havent been made in line 
with the original contractual obligations here. RBS are entitled to take steps to recover the debt. And make commercial decisions on how to manage it.  The mistakes in communication 
RBS have acknowledged and - in the case of the account receiving the payments - corrected 
where necessary. I dont think any of the steps taken by RBS to collect what they were owed 
by Mr B are unreasonable in the circumstances. And in respect of the mistakes theyve 
acknowledged - for example the credit of payments under the arrangement to pay to Mr Bs 
current account instead of the loan account - once known of, theyve been rectified promptly 
and explained to Mr B. So, I dont require RBS to take any further action.
Complaint handling
What the investigator has said about our remit to investigate complaint handling is correct. 
But, if its ancillary to the business activity being complained of, I can also look at such 
concerns. I think the central concerns are what Ive dealt with under the headings above. Mr 
B wanted to settle this debt back in July 2020 but didnt receive a response. So, I think, his 
complaints about whos looked into this point and miscommunication and incorrect 
information, over a number of years, are ancillary to the main complaint and something I can 
look at. Although thats the case, it doesnt change the overall outcome of this case, as I 
dont think the bank have made any mistakes in complaint handling. Ill explain why.
Mr B is concerned that, despite his request to escalate this complaint, the same person kept 
dealing with the complaint. He describes it as the bank marking their own homework. But on 
the information before me I cant agree. 
The original responses to Mr Bs offer to settle in July 2020 came from the Debt 
Management Operations team. His complaint about the failure to respond to this and getting 
contradictory information about the review of his payment arrangement was dealt with by a 
different team. A named complaint specialist sent the 23 February 2020 FRL and reiterated 
RBSs position in March 2020.  And those earlier FRLs from 23 Feb 2021 and March 2021 
dealt with by a different complaint handler to the one who went on to deal with this case and 
issued the FRLs in May and July 2021 in this complaint. So, I cant see that one individuals 
conduct has been investigated by themselves as Mr B suggests. 
In both sets of FRLs the complaint handlers gave the appropriate referral rights to this 
service. And, although Im of a different view to the investigator as to whether we can look at 
this issue, my view on the overall outcome of the complaint remains the same as I dont think 
RBS have done anything wrong in respect of the complaint handling.
Given how strongly Mr B feels about this, he may want to pursue the matter further through 
other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we - in trying to resolve his dispute with 
RBS informally - can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman