DRN-2436471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited has turned down a storm damage 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs V noticed damage to their roof, following bad weather. Hip 
tiles and slates had come off of the pitched roof and some tiles had fallen onto a flat roof. So 
Mr and Mrs V made a storm damage claim on their home insurance policy.
Fairmead appointed a surveyor to look into the cause of the damage. The surveyor thought 
the impact damage to the flat roof could be considered under the accidental damage cover 
Mr and Mrs V held. But the surveyor said the hip tile damage wasnt down to storm. They 
found the damage to the hip tiles was down to age-related wear and tear to the pointing. 
Based on the surveyors report, Fairmead turned down the claim for repairs to the damaged 
hip tiles.
Mr and Mrs V werent happy with Fairmeads decision. They provided it with a copy of a 
report from their roofer which said the roof was of a good standard and the damage had 
been caused by the high winds. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. Hed noted that 
Fairmeads policy defined storm conditions as winds which exceeded 47mph. So he looked 
at local weather records from the date of the damage. He noticed that while there had been 
storm winds recorded at a weather station five miles from Mr and Mrs Vs home; the closest 
weather station had recorded wind speeds of 42mph. He thought it was fair to rely on the 
records which showed the weather closest to Mr and Mrs Vs home. And based on these 
records, he didnt think thered been storm conditions at the time of the claim. He also 
thought itd been reasonable for the surveyor to conclude the likely cause of the damage 
was wear and tear. Overall, he thought itd been reasonable for Fairmead to turn down Mr 
and Mrs Vs claim.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed. The difference in wind speeds between the two weather stations 
which were closest to their home was 19mph. They wanted to know how this could be the 
case. They felt, given the wind directions on the day, theyd been more likely affected by the 
higher wind speeds. They also referred to information on our website which explains how we 
look at complaints about storm which they felt related to their complaint. They maintained the 
adverse weather conditions were the cause of the damage.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair and reasonable for Fairmead to turn down Mr and Mrs Vs 
claim. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Fairmead has defined what it means by storm in its policy wording. Its set out the following 
definition:
We consider storm to be strong winds of 41 knots/47 mph or more, sometimes 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute storm 
unless the downpour is torrential (25mm/1 inch or more of rain over a one hour period, or a 
proportionate amount over a shorter time).
So Ive looked carefully at the available evidence to decide whether or not there were storm 
conditions on the day of the damage which are covered by the terms of Mr and Mrs Vs 
policy.
Like the investigator, Ive referred to local weather reports, as these generally give the most 
accurate recording about the prevailing weather conditions. The closest weather station to 
Mr and Mrs Vs home is three miles away from it and is located at an airport. This weather 
station recorded a highest wind speed of 42mph on the day Mr V noticed the damage. This 
was also the highest recorded wind speed in the week prior to the damage occurring. This 
wind speed isnt high enough to be considered as a storm in line with Fairmeads policy 
terms and conditions. And while I accept these are strong winds, I dont think they were high 
enough to be considered to constitute storm winds.
The other weather station is located five miles from Mr and Mrs Vs home. This recorded a 
highest wind speed of 61mph, which would be considered to be storm conditions. Ive looked 
at a map of the area and Mr and Mrs Vs home isnt between these two stations. Im satisfied 
the airport weather station was closest to their home and more likely to be representative of 
the wind speed which was prevailing at the time the damage happened. On this basis, I think 
the answer to the first question is most likely no.
However, I do appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs V feel that there were prevailing storm 
conditions at the time and Im mindful that Fairmead didnt indicate to them that it didnt think 
there had been a storm. So Ive considered whether I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to 
conclude that the hip tile damage was most likely down to wear and tear, even if there had 
been storm winds.
The policy terms and conditions include a list of things which are specifically excluded from 
cover. One of these says:We will not pay for:
Gradually operating cause: Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or 
damage that happens gradually over time.
Mr and Mrs Vs roofer said he thought the roof was well-maintained and that the damage 
was caused by the adverse high winds. Ive thought about this, as the roofer had the chance 
to look at the damage.
On the other hand, Fairmeads surveyor stated in their report:
With regards to the hip tiles there is wear and tear to the pointing to the remaining tiles, 
which was seen to be in a poor condition. We consider that the proximate cause of damage
to the hip tiles is wear and tear.
They later added that the photos of the roof showed there were gaps between the ridge tiles 
where pointing was missing. 
While Mr and Mrs Vs roofer thought the damage was down to high winds, he didnt explain 
how this had impacted the hip tiles, or how the damage had been caused. Im more 
persuaded by the evidence from Fairmeads surveyor which explains how the hip tiles had 
likely been dislodged during the windy conditions. On this basis, I think it was fair for 
Fairmead to rely on its surveyors opinion to conclude that the main cause of the damage 
was wear and tear to the pointing, which was simply highlighted by high wind speeds.
So even if I thought there had been a storm, I still think itd wouldve been reasonable for 
Fairmead to conclude that the main cause of damage was something the policy didnt cover.
Mr and Mrs V have questioned why Fairmead accepted part of their claim. Its important I 
make clear that Fairmead didnt deal with the flat roof damage under the storm cover. This 
was dealt with as impact damage under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
However, accidental damage cover wouldnt apply to the hip tile part of the claim, as the 
wear and tear exclusion would apply here.
Overall, I think it was fair for Fairmead to turn down Mr and Mrs Vs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman