DRN-3112881
The complaint
Mr G complains about advice he was given, by King & Company Accounting and Financial 
Services Limited, to transfer the deferred benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this will cause him a financial loss.
King & Company Accounting and Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering 
this complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer to King & Company. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G first approached King & Company in 2017 for financial advice. King & 
Company initially completed a fact-find to gather information about their circumstances and 
Mr Gs pension and retirement objectives. Mr and Mrs G took some time to think about their 
situation and a suitability report was produced by King & Company in April 2018 concerning 
Mr Gs pension. A broad summary of their situation and objectives around that time was as 
follows:
Mr and Mrs G were aged 54 and said to be in good health as of 2018. They had no 
dependents.
Mr G had taken redundancy in 2012 after a career in banking and had since worked 
part-time in an unrelated sector, earning around £6,000 per year. Mrs G was self-
employed earning around £8,000 per year. They received around £6,000 per year 
from joint-investment income.
Mr and Mrs G had sizable investments which included individual and joint accounts. 
Examples included cash individual savings accounts (ISA), stocks and shares ISAs, 
income bonds, premium bonds, shares and cash accounts. The total value of these 
was around £381,000.
Mr and Mrs G also owned their home outright, valued at around £525,000. They 
intended at some point to downsize to a smaller / cheaper property which could 
release a further six-figure sum. 
The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of Mr Gs OPS as of 20 April 2018 was 
£588,053. It had a normal retirement age (NRA) of 65, but Mr G previously had made 
a contribution towards buying an unreduced retirement benefit at age 60. The 
practical effect of this was that Mr G could retire from the OPS with full benefits at 60.
Mr Gs desire was to access his pension at around the age of 55 by transferring out 
of the OPS to a more flexible scheme. One important aspect of this to Mr G was that 
it could avoid him suffering a further actuarial reduction due to accessing the OPS 
earlier than the age of 60. 
Mr Gs objective was to be able to access capital from his pension transfer and 
enable capital growth in a personal pension until his state retirement age of 67. He 
also found the ability to pass on death benefits to Mrs G an attractive feature.
In April 2018, King & Company went on to recommend to Mr G that he should transfer out of 
his DB OPS and into a personal pension plan. It said he should invest the proceeds in funds 
commensurate with his attitude to risk (ATR) which it said was moderately cautious. King & 
Company recommended the transfer saying it would enable Mr G to access a cash lump-
sum of 25% of his pension which was larger than the OPS equivalent lump-sum and thus 
would allow him to fulfil his main preference which was to access his pension early. 
Mr G acted on the advice by transferring out. However, in 2020 he complained to King & 
Company that the advice was unsuitable and had caused him losses and he later referred 
the complaint to our Service. King & Company offered compensation to settle the dispute 
with Mr G, which he declined. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. They 
thought Mr G would not have transferred out if King & Company had given him suitable 
advice. King & Company didnt agree with our investigator and made a number of detailed 
submissions which Ive carefully considered. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold the complaint. 
Overview
While this complaint specifically relates to Mr G, the issues here involve both Mr and Mrs Gs 
financial affairs. Ive noted they had been married for some time and clearly consider their 
finances jointly as a couple. Id therefore like to make it clear that whilst I might periodically 
refer only to Mr G, I have kept their jointly held finances in mind. 
I should also point out that all the parties in this case have submitted a substantial amount of 
information and arguments in support of their respective cases. I have considered these with 
great care and noted all the points being made. However, Ive focussed on what I consider to 
have been the main issues and summarised the positions of both parties to make my 
decision as clear and understandable as possible.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, King & Company should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Financial comparisons and viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match the benefits of Mr Gs OPS at age 65 was 7.15% if he 
took a full pension, and 6.77 % if he took a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension. The 
relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year. At NRA, Mr G would have been entitled to a pension with his OPS of 
£28,670 per year (which included £2,010 of pension due to be clawed back in later years) 
without any tax-free cash - or £21,837 per year, with a tax-free sum of £132,178. 
I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Gs moderately cautious ATR and also the term to retirement. However, I have also 
kept in mind that Mr Gs retirement aspirations were to access his pension savings at around 
the age of 55, rather than 65. Nevertheless, the above figures demonstrate in my view, just 
how much Mr Gs transferred funds would need to grow by, even to match those in his OPS. 
There would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 6.77%, I think he was more likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than Mr Gs OPS at retirement as a result of investing in line with that 
ATR. 
King & Company also quoted a hurdle rate in its suitability report which was quite a bit 
lower than the critical yield mentioned above. However, this comparison was based on Mr G 
buying a pension with no increases, no spouse benefits and no guarantees so it was 
comparing against something quite different.
King & Company also provided a number of different retirement models. It says these show 
Mr G would have been able to meet his financial needs well into his retirement by 
transferring out of his OPS. Ive noted Mr G was provided with a number of different 
scenarios in these models, each showing how his transferred funds could last for many 
years into the future. However, whilst I acknowledge that King & Company was trying to 
demonstrate here how his transferred funds might be efficiently used over several years, 
these were not like-for-like comparisons with the pension benefits Mr G would be giving up. 
Mr Gs pension was fairly large, so demonstrating the funds could last into the future does 
not necessarily mean that transferring out of it was the best option for him.
I also considered King & Companys detailed and many responses on the use of critical yield 
when assessing financial viability; it says Mr G was never interested in buying an annuity, a 
product which the critical yield is used to compare against. However overall, I do not agree 
that transferring out was better for Mr Gs from a financial viability perspective. I have 
considered the critical yield relevance and also King & Companys detailed response to our 
investigators view, including its comprehensive growth projections. However, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and overall, I consider the discount 
rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic comparisons in the long 
term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of 
time. 
For these reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Gs best interests. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And King & 
Company argue that its advice was designed to help Mr G meet his objective of accessing 
his pension benefits immediately without the OPS reductions. Ive considered these below.Flexibility and income needs
Whilst I think its fair to say Mr Gs plans about retiring werent completely fixed, he told King 
& Company hed like to access his pension savings at around the age of 55. Mr G was clear 
about this and I think this formed the main basis of the advice he was given to transfer out. It 
was also a key theme in King & Companys suitability report that access to a greater amount 
of tax-free cash formed a major part of the recommendation to transfer out. Enabling the 
pension funds to grow outside the scheme, more control over the pension, and avoiding the 
financial penalties of accessing his OPS early (at 55) were other prominent factors.
However, its important to remember here that King & Companys job wasnt to simply 
transact what Mr G thought he wanted. Its job was to advise him on what was in his best 
interests.
Whilst Mr G may have wanted to access his pension early when he sought advice, I dont 
think he really required the flexibility in retirement referred to by King & Company. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Mr and Mrs G already had access to substantial financial resources 
at the time. They also seemed to have had a well-defined idea of how much they needed on 
a month by month basis. Its certainly true that to meet their monthly outgoings and desire for 
an enjoyable and comfortable lifestyle, there was a modest shortfall in their monthly 
investment income, but not in their overall income as shown in the suitability report. Mr G 
was still working at the time and had an income, as did Mrs G. So, to be clear they had both 
employment income and investment income to call upon in addition to their salaries. 
So, in my view, the main issue here is that Mr and Mrs G also already had access to liquid 
savings and investments to such an extent that they didnt need to transfer Mr Gs OPS just 
to access more cash. There was also the real prospect of them freeing up more cash from 
the sale of their house in the medium term. I therefore dont think theres any evidence that 
Mr G had a genuine need to access tax-free cash from his pension earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. In his circumstances, the much more valuable option was for Mr G 
to use his OPS in the way that it was intended and to use his other resources to complement 
the income he was receiving, from his substantial savings and investments. Mr and Mrs G 
knew exactly how much they needed and they had the ability to plug the gap until Mr G 
reached the age of 60.
Ive also considered the issue about the tax-free cash element being considerably higher if 
Mr G transferred out of the DB scheme to a private pension. This can often be the case with 
these types of schemes. But accessing more tax-free cash didnt come without any 
consequences, as it simply left less for investment purposes later on and so this option 
would only have added to the significant amounts of cash Mr and Mrs G already had. In a 
low interest rate environment I dont think this would have been a priority for Mr and Mrs G, 
given the large sums they held elsewhere.
So, Im satisfied Mr G could have met his and Mrs Gs income needs by staying inside his 
OPS until the age of 60. I think they could have easily met their needs by drawing from their 
savings and investments between the ages of 55 and 60. And at 60 the DB scheme provided 
an annual income. Taking this route would have easily met their needs and also protected 
the valuable guarantees and benefits his OPS came with. 
Mr G was only nearing 55 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen I can think 
of no reason to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the OPS. Even if Mr Gs 
circumstances changed measurably and he later had reason to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, he could have done so closer to the scheme retirement age.
Death benefitsThis area was cited by King & Company as being of importance to Mr and Mrs G. I note a 
number of life insurance quotes were discussed when the parties met and discounted largely 
on the basis of cost.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension in this case was likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important, and he might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. As we 
know, Mr G was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would 
have been useful to Mrs G if Mr G predeceased her. In my view, the death benefits in the 
OPS did appear to be valuable. I dont think King & Company promoted the value of this 
benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, King & Company should not have encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. 
Control of pension and other matters
I think Mr Gs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. I accept Mr G took 
an interest in his financial affairs and from what Ive seen was most probably a sensible and 
competent investor. However, Mr Gs OPS was already managed and I think the evidence is 
weak that Mr G exiting the scheme for the purpose of greater personal control was a 
genuine objective  I think it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB 
scheme.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding this complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr G, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr G should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the subsequent investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.Summary
As I said at the outset of this decision, Ive been presented with a substantial amount of 
information from both parties in this complaint. Ive considered everything thoroughly but 
have rightly summarised the main issues.
I began my decision by pointing out that the regulator makes it clear that the starting point for 
these types of pensions is that transfers out should only be considered if clearly 
demonstrated to be in the best interests of clients like Mr G. And I pointed out why, in terms 
of financial viability, I didnt think this was the case here. 
I then went on to describe why I didnt think there was evidence that Mr G required the 
flexibility, control and the potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension. Whilst these things may have sounded like attractive features to Mr G, King & 
Companys role wasnt to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted; its role was 
to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best interests. I also 
set out the other substantial resources available to Mr G and why transferring out wasnt 
right for him because of these.
I acknowledge King & Company spent a great deal of time with Mr and Mrs G over many 
months and also that it provided them with a lot of information both in-person and in writing. 
Ultimately however, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. I think King & Company should have advised 
Mr G to remain in the DB scheme.
Finally, Ive gone on to think about whether, if Mr G had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. Mr G went to King & 
Company seeking advice, which he paid for. I think its more likely that he would have 
followed that advice had it been shown to be in his interests.
In light of the above, I think King & Company should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for King & Company to put Mr G, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for King & Companys unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr G would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
King & Company must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
King & Company may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date King & Company receives 
notification of the acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes King & Company to 
pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that King & 
Company pays the balance.
In acknowledgement of the importance of Mr Gs pension and the knock-on effect and 
emotional impact of the unsuitable advice, King & Company should pay £250 for distress 
and inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and require King & 
Company Accounting and Financial Services Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
King & Company Accounting and Financial Services Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require King & 
Company Accounting and Financial Services Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out 
above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
King & Company Accounting and Financial Services Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on King & Company 
Accounting and Financial Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept. Further, its unlikely that Mr G 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman