DRN-1186013
 
 
Complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank plc failed to close all his bank accounts when he asked 
it to. He also says that it continued to send him marketing and other communications without 
his consent.
Background
Mr C had several personal bank accounts, including current accounts and a credit card 
account with HSBC. He asked it to close the accounts and stop sending him marketing 
material and other messages. He wanted this done immediately.
HSBC closed all of the accounts except for the Advance Account. It didnt close this account 
until six months later. Mr C continued to receive marketing and other messages from HSBC 
during that six month period. 
Mr C complained to us about this. He said that HSBC had been negligent and by sending 
him marketing material, when he had asked it not to, HSBC was breaking the General Data 
Protection Regulations. 
Our investigator contacted HSBC. It accepted that it hadnt followed Mr Cs instruction. It 
said it shouldve closed the Advance Account at the same time as his other accounts. It 
added that because of this, it had continued to send information to him.  It said this was 
caused by human error.
HSBC told our investigator that it closed the Advance account as soon as we contacted it. It 
said it was prepared to offer Mr C £150 as compensation and said it would stop sending him 
marketing material. 
Our investigator thought that £150 fairly compensated Mr C for the inconvenience hed 
experienced.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said that HSBC had made an increased 
offer which he had refused to accept. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr C has raised an issue about the General Data Protection Regulations. He says 
that HSBC has broken these Regulations because it sent him marketing and other 
messages after he told it not to. Mr C says that hes reported HSBC to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) and its entirely proper that the ICO should consider his 
concerns. This isnt a matter for me to decide. In this decision, Ive thought about whether £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
what HSBC did wrong. I note that Mr C has indicated that HSBC made an increased offer 
but HSBC denies this.  Having thought about it, Im satisfied, on balance, that there wasnt 
an increased offer in relation to the matters which Ive been asked to determine. So £150 is 
the offer that Im looking at.
Mr C and HSBC both agree that the Advance account shouldve been closed and that Mr C 
shouldnt have received any further marketing messages. I can understand how frustrating it 
wouldve been for Mr C to continue to get things when hed made it very clear that he didnt 
want to.  He says this was harassment.
Ive looked at the messages that Mr C was sent. I can see that these messages were about 
things like changes to terms and conditions and warnings about banking scams. Whilst Mr C 
didnt welcome these messages, I cant find anything in them that wouldve been offensive or 
amounted to harassment. The messages were all general in nature.
I can also see that as soon as we contacted HSBC about the complaint it closed the 
Advance account and the messages stopped. So, whilst I know that Mr C feels very strongly 
about this, I agree with our investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. So I dont require HSBC to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above HSBC UK Bank plc should pay Mr C £150 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of its failure to 
close all of his accounts when he asked it to. But I dont require it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman