DRN-2892138
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have denied him access to internet banking 
through the Lloyds mobile banking app by updating it so that it no longer works on his 
device.  
  
What happened
Mr M holds a current account with Lloyds. 
He was registered with Lloyds for the mobile banking app and used it to manage his account 
on his Android phone. 
Earlier this year Lloyds updated their banking app, and it was no longer able to work on 
operating systems earlier than Android 7. 
Mr M has a device which has an Android 6 operating system and cannot be further updated. 
As the Lloyds app was no longer supported on this device, he was no longer able to access 
internet banking via the app on his phone.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about this.  
In February 2021 Lloyds responded to Mr Ms complaint. They advised that Apple and 
Google release operating system updates regularly to improve security and add features, 
and that over time they stop sending updates for older operating systems which makes 
those systems less secure. 
Lloyds will only run their apps on the most up to date and secure operating systems to 
ensure they have complete security. The minimum operating system on Android that is able 
to use the Lloyds app is Android 7. 
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He complained that it 
was discrimination not to allow him to conduct his business on the mobile app as the 
desktop site doesnt provide the same functionality as the app. Mr C wanted to continue to 
use the earlier version of the app and said that by not allowing him to do this, Lloyds were 
forcing him to upgrade his device.   
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought that we couldnt tell 
Lloyds to give Mr M access to the older version of the app, but she did look at whether he 
had been given satisfactory updates around any system changes which affected him. She 
looked at the information provided on Lloyds website, and felt that they had given Mr M 
reasonable notice of the changes. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Its important that financial institutions do all they can to protect their customers against 
financial fraud especially in the current climate when cyber fraud is rising. 
As Lloyds are unable to guarantee the security of their app on unsupported operating 
systems, they have said that the app will now only operate on Android 7 and above. They 
advise that they have taken this step to continue to offer the best protection to their 
customers.  
I am not able to direct Lloyds to give Mr M access to the app using an earlier version of the 
operating system, as it this a business decision and that is outside my remit.  However, I can 
look at whether Lloyds have acted reasonably in communicating this to Mr M, and providing 
him with other options to manage his finances. 
I can see from Lloyds website that there is a page of information explaining the changes to 
the mobile app, and why the earlier operating systems are no longer supported. Security is 
clearly the focus of this change. 
Although I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr M, I think that Lloyds have given sufficient 
notice of the step they have taken, why they are taking it, and have provided information to 
customers about what they will need to do if they wish to continue using the mobile banking 
app. 
While I can see that there are certain functions on the app that are not available through 
using desktop internet banking, such as depositing a cheque, Mr M still has access to full 
banking facilities through a combination of internet banking and using his branch. 
Mr M has said that he thinks it is a breach of service for Lloyds to not provide him with the 
ability to access the mobile banking app. However, I can see that on Lloyds website it says:
To use our Mobile Banking app you need to have a valid phone number registered to your 
account. Available to UK personal Internet Banking customers and Internet Banking 
customers with accounts held in Jersey, the Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man. Our 
app is available to iPhone and Android users only and minimum operating systems apply, so 
check the App Store or Google Play for details. Device registration required. The app doesnt 
work on jailbroken or rooted devices. Terms and conditions apply
I therefore think that Lloyds have made it clear that the app service is conditional on certain 
requirements, and I dont consider it is a breach of service not make the app available to 
older versions of operating systems
I also note that Mr M has said that Lloyds are forcing him to upgrade his mobile device. I 
dont agree with this. As I have said above, full banking facilities are still available to Mr M. 
Whilst I appreciate this may not as convenient as using the app, they are still available, and I 
find that Lloyds have not done anything wrong here. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC do not need to do 
anything further.      
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman