DRN-1286596
The complaint
Mr H complains about the inappropriate and unprofessional handling of a telephone call he 
made to National Savings & Investments (NS & I). He complains its customer representative 
failed to answer some of his questions and gave inaccurate responses to others; in particular 
the timing of the dispatch of his password.
Mr H further complains that he asked NS & I for a written response to be provided in relation 
to the issues he had raised in the telephone call.  He says as NS & I failed to provide this he 
was forced to make a complaint. 
Mr H also complains that there was a delay in acknowledging and responding to his 
complaint. He also says some of the issues raised by him were not properly addressed.  
What happened
Mr H holds premium bonds with NS & I. On 21 May 2019 he applied to NS & I for a 
temporary password. That letter was received on 22 May 2019. A password was ordered 
and issued on 24 May 2019 and dispatched on 28 May 2019.
On 1 June 2019 Mr H contacted the business and spoke to a customer representative. He 
asked the representative a number of questions about security; the dispatch of his temporary 
password and opening hours. As the representative was unable to answer all of his 
questions Mr H asked for a written response to be provided by NS & I. The representative 
agreed that would happen.
On 6 June 2019 Mr H complained to NS & I as he hadnt received a written response. 
NS & I wrote to Mr H on 7 June 2019. It acknowledged his letter of 6 June but it didnt 
specifically address it as a complaint. In that letter NS & I provided information about the 
dispatch of Mr Hs temporary password; namely the date that had occurred and the service 
level agreement regarding the provision of passwords.
Mr H wrote further letters to NS & I. On 18 June 2019 NS & I acknowledged his complaint. 
On 24 June 2019 NS & I sent its final response letter to Mr H. It upheld his complaint in part 
as it agreed the call did not meet its usual standards. NS & I offered Mr H compensation of 
£50 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H sent further letters to NS & I. On 4 July 2019 NS & I responded and referred to Mr Hs 
letters dated 15 June, 20 June and 28 June. It gave further information about security 
procedures and opening hours and apologised for the delay in acknowledging his complaint. 
Mr H wrote to NS & I on 8 July 2019 expressing his dissatisfaction with the response given in 
its letter of 4 July.
NS & I replied to Mr H on 11 July 2017 and accepted there had been some delay in 
responding to his correspondence. It offered a further £50 compensation to address this.Mr H disagreed with NS & Is proposed settlement and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr H's complaint but didnt uphold it. He considered the 
telephone call and the correspondence between Mr H and NS & I. The investigator thought 
that NS & I had addressed the concerns raised by Mr H in letters sent to him after he raised 
his complaint. He acknowledged there had been some delays and Mr H had been caused 
some upset and inconvenience. The investigator noted Mr H hadnt been caused any 
financial loss. Overall he considered the compensation offered was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. As no agreement could be reached          
 Mr Hs complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Telephone call of 1 June and provision of information by NS & I
I have carefully considered what was discussed in the telephone conversation between Mr H 
and NS & Is customer representative. 
The call starts with the customer representative asking Mr H some questions before logging 
him in. I am satisfied those questions were asked for the purposes of security. Mr H queried 
why he wasnt asked the three (specific) security questions. The representative explained 
that was because the system hadnt prompted him to ask those questions. 
Mr H asked the representative about the service level agreement for issuing temporary (or 
emergency) passwords. The representative initially said it depended on when the request 
reached NS & I. The representative then gave a very approximate answer of how long it 
might take. Mr H asked for the specific time as set out in the service level agreement. It 
seems fairly clear that the representative didnt know the answer to that question. And rather 
than saying so to Mr H, he tried to estimate what it might be.
Mr H also asked the representative when the letter containing the password was dispatched. 
The representative said it would have been the same day it was printed out. Mr H asked this 
a number of times and the representative confirmed that was the case. Again I think the 
representative thought that was likely to be the case but he didnt know for certain. So, he 
should have really just explained that he didn't know and that he would need to check with 
the department that dealt with those requests. 
However I think it is also clear from the content of that phone call that the representative 
expressed some reservations about his answer at times he said he wasnt certain and that 
was his understanding of the system.
 
There was some discussion about office hours and Mr H pointed out they were expressed to 
be 24 hours a day 7 days a week. The representative confirmed those were the hours for the 
call centre rather than the back office which operated office hours from Monday to Friday. He 
said he wasnt sure if that was 9-5 or 9-6. Mr H also wanted to know what whether he would have been able to access his account 
before receiving the password. The representative started to explain the circumstances in 
which he would have been able to do so but the discussion then moved on without a full 
answer being provided. Mr H was understandably concerned about the security of his 
personal data particularly in relation to the money he held in premium bonds. I think that by 
the end of the conversation the representative had acknowledged his concern.
Overall I consider that the representative did answer some of Mr Hs questions and tried to 
answer others. For instance he was able to tell Mr H when his mobile phone number was 
registered on the system. But unfortunately the representative was unable to properly 
answer some of Mr Hs questions and rather than making that clear, he tried to give an 
estimate based on his experience. 
This lack of knowledge understandably was not appreciated by Mr H who wanted specific 
answers to his fairly specific questions. For instance, he wanted to know the date the letter 
containing his password had entered the postal system. Mr H explained he had a letter 
dated 24 May which hadnt reached him until on 1 June. 
But I do think the customer representative remained polite throughout and tried to assist        
Mr H as best he could. I note he was working on the enquiries line rather than the back office 
which processed the password requests.  I also note the customer representative did 
apologise for upsetting Mr H during the course of the phone call.
I can see why Mr H was frustrated by the lack of specific information provided in response to 
his questions during the telephone call. I also appreciate he was concerned by the incorrect 
information he was given about the dispatch of his password; namely that it was dispatched 
on the same day as the date of the letter, which was 24 May.
But I take into account that correct information about the dispatch of his password was 
provided to him in the letter of 7 June. NS & I explained that his letter hadnt been 
dispatched until 28 May because of the bank holiday. But that still meant it complied with its 
service level agreement of five working days from receipt of his request on 22 May. I also 
note there was a weekend before the bank holiday which accounted for some of those days. 
In addition further information was provided by NS & I in relation to the other issues Mr H 
had raised, including the information required to activate his account, in its letter of 4 July. 
I note Mr H was dissatisfied with that response and said:
 Even when NS&I finally attempts to address my explicit outstanding complaints, the result 
is yet another undoubted catalogue of confusion, errors, inadequacy, incompetence and 
delay
Needless to say. your Mr XXXXX (redacted) offers absolutely no monetary compensation to 
me for the disruption caused by the additional and acknowledged multiple failings by NS&I in 
the ongoing maladministration of my legitimate complaints.
But I consider the letter of 4 July (together with previous letters sent by NS & I) did address 
the issues Mr H had raised. 
I consider Mr H was caused some inconvenience and upset by the call itself and by having 
to wait a few days for the information he sought about the dispatch of the password. But I 
think the £50 offered by NS & I is fair and reasonable taking into account the circumstances 
and for the reasons I have already outlined.Delay in acknowledging complaint and providing all information 
Mr H has correctly pointed out that his complaint letter of 6 June 2019 was not formally 
acknowledged by NS & I as a complaint until 18 June 2019. His letter was received on 7 
June 2019 so the acknowledgement was sent more than five working days after receipt.    
 Mr H has highlighted that the business had stated five working days was its timeframe for 
acknowledgement of a complaint. 
I can see that NS & I acknowledged receipt of Mr Hs letter in its letter of 7 June but it didnt 
properly acknowledge it as a complaint. So I am satisfied that NS & I didnt respond properly 
in the first instance. I consider this was an omission because it mistakenly believed this letter 
was part of another, separate complaint made by Mr H in relation to a different issue. I note 
the letter of 6 June did make reference to another (existing) complaint. ( I should also make 
it clear that I am not looking at that other separate complaint in this decision).
NS & I did however send a proper response on 18 June 2019. I also take into account it 
acknowledged its error in its letter of 4 July 2019 and apologised. It then offered 
compensation of £50 in its letter of 11 July 2019.
So I am satisfied the £50 offered for the delay and the trouble and upset caused to Mr H as a 
result is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have carefully considered all the points made by Mr H about the provision of incorrect 
information and the delays in responding to his requests which meant he had to spend time 
contacting NS & I. But overall I think the compensation offered is fair and reasonable taking 
into account all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Hs complaint against National Savings and Investments is not 
upheld for the reasons outlined. 
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman