DRN-3053139
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wont remove her ex-
partner as trustee from a life and critical illness insurance held in trust.
What happened
Ms M took out a life and critical illness insurance policy with Aviva in 2013. The policy was 
placed in trust and she, her ex-partner Mr F and another person were designated as 
trustees. Mr F was the beneficiary of the policy.
In 2014 Ms Ms relationship broke down and she later removed Mr F as beneficiary. In 2019 
Ms M asked Aviva to also remove Mr F as trustee. But Aviva told Ms M it couldnt do that. It 
said under the terms of the trust, a trustee needed to consent to their removal or if they could 
not be contacted, a deed could be drawn up dismissing them. Alternatively, Ms M could 
allow the plan to lapse and take out a new policy.
Ms M complained as she didnt think this was fair. She said it was unreasonable to expect 
her to take out a new policy and pay more for the cover. Ms M said she could not contact 
Mr F and it would cause her distress to do so. She also said she couldnt afford to engage a 
solicitor to draw up the deed. She thought Aviva should allow her to put a new policy in place 
but maintaining the existing premiums. Aviva didnt change its stance so Ms M referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Aviva had treated Ms M unfairly 
as the terms of the trust deed governed what changes could be made and by who. He was 
satisfied that the only way Ms M could remove Mr F as trustee was by deed. The investigator 
recognised the distress the situation had caused Ms M, but thought it would be possible for a 
third party or representative to contact Mr F on her behalf if she didnt want him to know of 
her whereabouts. Alternatively Ms M had the option of taking out a new policy, which he 
didnt think was likely to be too much more expensive.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion and so asked an ombudsman to consider the 
matter. She maintained that Aviva wasnt treating her fairly in the circumstances and said it 
would cost her significantly more over the term of the contract if she took out new cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Ms M, 
and I dont wish to add to her distress. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Aviva has 
treated her unfairly  Ill explain why.
I think its important to note that although Ms M is the life assured and she pays for the 
cover, the policy does not belong to her. By placing the policy in trust she has given up the 
right to deal with the policy as she sees fit in a personal capacity  those powers now rest 
with the trustees. The trust deed, which is irrevocable, governs how the policy proceeds are 
distributed and to who, and dictates how the trustees may act. This means that Aviva is 
unable to act upon Ms Ms instructions alone  it has to ensure that the trust deed is 
complied with. So, although Ms M wishes for Mr F to be removed as trustee, Aviva can only 
remove him as trustee in accordance with the procedure set out in the trust deed.
Under Part F  Powers and provisions, the trust deed states:
4. If there are two Settlors of full capacity both Settlors shall together have power to 
dismiss any Trustee by Deed giving 30 days notice to such Trustee and if there is only 
one Settlor of full capacity that Settlor shall have that power provided always that no 
dismissal shall take effect unless and until there is at least a Trust Corporation or two 
individual Trustees to act as continuing Trustees.
5. Where one Trustee (the Missing Trustee) cannot be found and the other trustees  
(the Remaining Trustees) have made all reasonable efforts to trace him, the 
Remaining Trustees being not less than two in number of a Trust Corporation may by 
deed discharge the Missing Trustee. A recital in that Deed stating that the Missing 
Trustee cannot be found and that the Remaining Trustees have made all reasonable 
efforts to trace him shall be conclusive evidence in favour of any person dealing with the 
Trustees in good faith.
According to the completed trust document, Ms M and Mr F are both settlors and trustees. 
So, as there are two settlors, a deed would be required with each of them consenting to Mr F 
being removed as trustee. Alternatively if Mr F is not contactable, which is what Ms M 
appears to be suggesting, she and the remaining trustee may dismiss him, again by deed. 
So, either way, in order for Mr F to be removed as trustee, a deed is required. I appreciate 
Ms M is concerned about the costs involved in this, but that is a consequence of the policy 
having been placed in trust  any changes to the trust have to be executed by deed. And 
I cannot ask Aviva to set aside the terms of the trust deed, which is a legal instrument.
I appreciate Ms M feels that Aviva should be able to offer her a new policy, but paying the 
same premium as her current cover as she is an existing customer. But this would be asking 
Aviva to put a new contract into place, ignoring the current cost of providing that cover. 
I dont think I can reasonably ask Aviva to put a new policy in place for Ms M, particularly as 
she has options which allow her to continue with the existing policy. So, I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman