DRN-3222441
The complaint
Mr D complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited failed to deal with his claim in 
a reasonable time frame which resulted in a fault claim being recorded against him.
What happened
Mr Ds car was hit by another vehicle on 19 October 2018 whilst it was parked outside his 
house. A member of the public said he witnessed the accident and provided the number 
plate of the vehicle which had hit Mr Ds car as well as their contact details. Mr D wasnt 
home, so the witness left this note with Mr Ds neighbour. 
Mr D told Markerstudy he wanted to make a claim for the damage to his vehicle in October 
2018. The claim was originally dealt with by a claims handling company who Ill call C. 
C wrote to the witness on 22 January 2019 to ask for him to complete a witness statement. 
He returned this a week later. The third-party driver denied involvement. On 17 May 2019 C 
referred the matter to Markerstudy to deal with. 
Markerstudy received a copy of the witness statement from C on 22 May 2019. It forwarded 
this to the insurers of the vehicle which the witness had said struck Mr Ds car. The third-
partys insurers responded on 12 September 2019 saying the owner of the vehicle denied he 
had struck another vehicle and his vehicle showed evidence of no damage. 
On 8 October 2019 Mr D complained to Markerstudy about the lack of progress on his claim. 
On 15 October 2019, Markerstudys solicitors said they wouldnt take on trying to establish if 
the third party was responsible for the damage to Mr Ds vehicle due to lack of detail in the 
witness statement. At this point, Markerstudy contacted C to ask it to get back in touch with 
the witness. No further action was taken by Markerstudy.
Mr D referred a complaint (separate to this one) to our service in late 2020 saying that 
evidence had been overlooked and there had been delays. The claim had been settled and 
Mr Ds car repaired, but it had been recorded as a fault claim against him. Our investigator 
agreed there had been delays and recommended compensation for this and Markerstudy 
agreed to look at the claim again. 
Markerstudy contacted its solicitors again on 24 December 2020. This time it provided a 
copy of the note the witness had left with Mr Ds neighbour. It asked if the solicitors would 
reconsider taking on the case. The solicitors said they would try to contact the witness to 
confirm if they would attend court. The solicitors were unable to contact the witness so 
advised that they would abandon any attempt at recovering Markerstudys outlay meaning it 
would remain recorded as a fault claim against Mr D. 
On 13 July 2021, Markerstudy wrote to Mr D saying it had been unable to contact the 
witness for further information. Because of this, its solicitors didnt think that they would be 
able to reclaim its costs. This meant that it was recorded as a fault claim against the policy. 
Mr D was unhappy with this and referred a new complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into this new complaint. She thought the complaint should 
be upheld. She thought Mr Ds claim had been prejudiced by Markerstudy not contacting the 
witness sooner. She said it was fair for Markerstudy to change the claim to be recorded as 
Mr D not being at fault. She also said Markerstudy should refund the additional premiums 
Mr D had been charged as a result of having a fault claim recorded against him, and that 
Markerstudy should pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused. 
Mr D accepted this, but Markerstudy did not. It asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint. So its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Following the vehicle hitting Mr Ds car, a member of the public had provided his details to 
Mr Ds neighbour saying he saw the incident. To me, this indicates a willingness to assist. 
C sent a questionnaire to the witness and this was promptly returned. I've looked at the 
witness questionnaire. Markerstudy has said it doesnt think any claim would have been 
successful because of the lack of detail regarding the driver. I accept the witness statement 
may not have been strong at this stage. But the questionnaire was completed and all of the 
questions were answered. Given that the witness had offered his details to the Mr D 
following the accident and then said he'd be willing to help further and go as far as attending 
court, it would seem to me that the sensible thing here, if Markerstudy felt that the evidence 
or information was lacking detail, would have been to contact the witness for further details. 
Markerstudy received the witness statement in May 2019. It was referred to Markerstudys 
solicitors who said they wouldnt take on recovery due to lack of detail in the witness 
statement. At this point, rather than the solicitors or Markerstudy trying to contact the 
witness, Markerstudy contacted C to ask it to get back in touch with the witness. 
We have no evidence that C did try to contact the witness at this time. Based on this, I think 
its fair to assume that C didnt try to contact the witness straight away in October 2019 when 
asked to do so. I also think its likely that if this had been done promptly the witness would 
have responded, given his previous willingness to assist. However, I can't see that the 
solicitors took any action to contact the witness until around January 2021 - 20 months later.
I understand that at this point the witness didnt respond further and that Markerstudy is no 
longer able to get a response from the witness, but this is hardly surprising given that it's 
been over three years since the accident occurred. Had Markerstudy not caused such 
significant delays and if it had contacted the witness itself, rather than asking C to and not 
following up on it, I think its likely it would have been able to gain further information. I say 
this given the willingness the witness had previously shown to help. 
The key dispute in this case is what might have been the outcome to Markerstudys attempt 
to recover its outlay on Mr Ds claim had it contacted the witness sooner. Of course, I cant 
know what the outcome would have been for certain. So I have to make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities  that is what I think would more likely than not have 
happened had Markerstudy contacted the witness sooner. Its up to Markerstudy to provide evidence that their decision to ask C to contact the
Witness and not follow this up, when they had no real incentive or reason to be further 
involved, didnt prejudice the chance of recovery. And I dont think it has done so here.
I'd also note that I don't agree with Markerstudys assertion that the witness statement is 
particularly lacking in detail. It gives descriptions of what happened and a diagram which, in 
my opinion, shows the witness would have had a good view of the incident. And, as Ive 
said, the completion of this shows a wiliness to help. Taken with the note he'd left for Mr D 
and him indicating his willingness to go to court, I think this could have been very useful in 
trying to pursue recovery of Markerstudys outlay.
In summary, I think it is more likely than not likely that Markerstudy has prejudiced Mr Ds 
position, as I think the witness would have been likely to have been cooperative nearer the 
time of the incident, rather than years later when Markerstudys solicitors did finally try to 
contact him.
Based on the above, had Markerstudy taken action sooner, I think it would have been able to 
take further action to establish what had occurred and, based on what the witness said in his 
statement, would have been able to establish that the other driver was at fault. This would 
then have likely enabled it to recover its outlay on Mr Ds claim and mark the claim on his 
claims and policy records as non-fault or bonus-allowed.
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said above, I think Markerstudy should mark the claim on Mr Ds record 
and on any external databases it reports to as non-fault or bonus-allowed. It should also 
refund any excess Mr D was charged as a result of this claim.
Mr D should then contact his insurance broker regarding any policies he has or has had 
where the claim being marked as a fault claim could have affected the premium he was 
charged and see whether it will provide him, or arrange for the insurer to provide him, with 
an appropriate refund of an extra premium paid across the policies as a result of this. The 
broker has indicated to us it will do this. However, if the insurers refuse to provide a refund 
for the additional amounts Mr D has been charged, Mr D should provide evidence of the 
additional premium hes paid on all of his car insurance policies because of the claim being 
marked as fault to Markerstudy. Markerstudy should then pay this amount to Mr D.
Markerstudy should also pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman