DRN-2733349
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the poor level of service he received from Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance PLC (RSA), under his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2020, Mr Rs boiler broke down due to no hot water and a lack of pressure. He 
contacted, RSA who sent an engineer and carried out a repair. The following month Mr Rs 
boiler broke down again for the same reasons and he again contacted RSA whose engineer 
carried out another repair. 
The boiler subsequently broke down again, but at this repair the engineer found that there 
was a build-up of sludge, issues with various parts and that the heat exchanger was leaking. 
He diagnosed that the boiler was in a poor state and possibly beyond economical repair 
(BER). He requested that the boiler manufacturer attend to examine the boiler. 
The boiler manufacturer attended and diagnosed that the heat exchanger needed to be 
replaced and the boiler wasnt BER. But he couldnt carry out the repair as he said that 
access was restricted. 
Mr R contacted another independent engineer company, who replaced his boiler without any 
issues. 
Mr R complained to RSA, as he was unhappy by the quality of work of its engineers and he 
felt that the fault with his boiler shouldve been identified much sooner. 
In its final response, RSA agreed with Mr R that its level of service had fallen below its usual 
standards and it apologised for not resolving matters sooner. For this, it offered and paid 
£160 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. As well as reimbursed £75 for 
heating costs. Mr R remained unhappy with this outcome and so referred a complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that RSA had 
offered a total of £235 and this was a fair offer. That RSAs engineers had attempted to fix 
the issues with the boiler and that the terms and conditions of the policy, allowed that if 
access was restricted, it could refuse to continue with a repair, which happened here. 
RSA agreed with our investigators view. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator as he wanted an apology from RSA, as well as a 
substantial increase in the amount of compensation paid. So, he asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
I should point out that my role is to determine whether RSA treated Mr R fairly, in doing so I 
think the main issues are whether RSA fell below a reasonable standard of service and 
whether it had apologised to Mr R. Finally, whether RSAs offer of compensation is fair. 
I have reviewed the work record. On the first occasion Mr R called RSA to report the loss of 
hot water and pressure, the engineer fixed the problem. This appeared to be stable for a few 
weeks. Mr Rs boiler lost hot water again and at this point the engineer diagnosed that there 
was a faulty heat exchanger, amongst other things and recommended that the boiler 
manufacturer attend to complete the repair. The engineer believed that the boiler might be 
BER. Fortunately, the boiler manufacturer advised that the boiler wasnt BER but as there 
were access issues, the repair couldnt be completed.
The terms and conditions of the policy allow:
If the HomePlan engineer cannot gain access or considers that the
circumstances to carry out the work are potentially difficult or dangerous or where there
is a risk to health or safetythe HomePlan engineer may at their discretion
discontinue the repair.
Consequently, RSA did not carry out repairs that it deemed to be dangerous or difficult, 
which its engineer chose to do here. He said that there wasnt enough space to replace the 
affected parts and on this basis, the repair couldnt be completed. 
I accept that Mr R later changed his boiler for a new one. But, RSAs engineer (who would 
be deemed an expert) in his opinion couldnt access the internal workings/parts of the boiler. 
Also, I have been provided with photographs of the old boiler in situ and it does appear that 
the area that the engineer wouldve had to work was restricted. So, I cant say that RSA 
were unfair by relying on the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr R has indicated that he would like an apology from RSA for the poor level of 
workmanship. I have read its final response letter that Mr R confirmed he had received. In 
this letter, RSA detailed the investigation of Mr Rs complaint that it had conducted, as well 
as apologising for the poor customer experience.  It said: ..I believe this was not a good 
customer journey and I am sorry action was not taken to resolve this for you sooner. 
The letter goes on to uphold Mr Rs complaint and states: ..I have upheld your complaint 
and arranged a payment of £75.00 for heating cost reimbursement, and a payment of £160, 
by way of apology. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that RSA did apologise to Mr R and 
also offered compensation by way of an apology. 
I have next looked at the level of compensation and I understand that Mr R would like RSA 
to increase the amount it offered. Mr R said that the issue with his boiler couldve been 
identified quicker. But on each occasion that an engineer was called out, they appeared to 
fix the issue and restored the loss of hot water. 
RSA has agreed that there were some delays and that the issues with Mr Rs boiler couldve 
been identified sooner. Nonetheless, it isnt this services role to punish or fine the 
businesses we cover, and I think its reasonable that RSA has recognised its shortcomings. 
Consequently, I think that the level of compensation, that RSA offered is fair. Overall, I think that RSA has dealt with Mr R reasonably and I am satisfied that its actions 
were fair. So, I cant reasonably ask RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I think the offer from Royal and 
Sun Alliance Insurance PLC of £75 for the reimbursement of heating costs and £160 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman