DRN-3705701
The complaint
Mr S complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his repair claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
After Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident, Aviva agreed for it to be repaired by their 
approved repairer( Avivas garage). But Mr S said Aviva failed to arrange that, left him no 
option but to arrange the repair himself with a garage of his own choice, and then didnt give 
him a courtesy car because he hadnt used one of Avivas garages. He was also unhappy 
with other aspects of Avivas service.  
Aviva said that they hadnt refused to have his car repaired by one of their garages. However 
they offered him compensation of £150 for service delays. Mr S said this didnt compensate 
him for his hassle, cost and distress hed experienced and for Aviva not providing a courtesy 
car while his car was being repaired. He wanted about £24,000.
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Aviva hadnt acted unfairly and their compensation for the impact of the delay their service 
caused was reasonable. Mr S didnt agree and so I have been asked to decide.
Mr S had another complaint with Aviva but that was dealt with separately before Mr S 
withdrew it and so I wont deal with any issues it did.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Approved repairer
Mr S said as follows. He tried three times to make an appointment with an Aviva approved 
garage without success. Hed twice made an appointment only for them both to be 
cancelled. The third time, the online booking tool told him that Avivas closest garage was 
over 50 miles from him. He felt that it was unreasonable to expect him to take his car so far. 
So he cancelled that booking process and told Aviva by email that he was going to choose 
his own garage. Aviva referred that to their complaints department and offered to waive the 
non-approved repairer excess. Mr S said he had no choice but to use his own repairer. 
Access to Avivas garage service was in Avivas control, not his, and so Aviva shouldnt 
penalise him because theyd failed to provide their chosen method of service delivery.  
Its not in dispute that Aviva hadnt arranged their garage appointment for him for about two 
weeks after he reported the claim, but Aviva didnt agree that meant that Mr S had no other 
option but to use his own garage. 
Aviva said as follows. They accepted that two of their approved repairers were unavailable 
or overbooked during that time. But that didnt mean that they couldnt find another approved 
repairer or that they couldnt repair his car. Aviva were not given the chance to resolve this 
and instead Mr S cancelled their repair process before it could go through the garage 
reallocation process again. They could have found another approved repairer. If Mr S had 
gone back on their system or phoned them (as he had on 3 November when their adviser re-
arranged a garage for him ) they would have allocated another garage as others were 
available locally. Alternatively they could have taken his car to a garage further away.
Aviva have sent us a list of their approved repairers within 25 miles from him. What Aviva 
havent shown is whether those did in fact have capacity to take Mr Ss car at the relevant 
time, so I dont place reliance on that list. 
However Mr S himself said that Avivas system offered him a garage about 50 miles away. 
Aviva said that they would have arranged for his cars collection to there and return. They 
wouldnt have expected him to drive it. 
Mr S felt that it was unfair for Aviva to suggest that a garage so far away was really 
practicable, as through the process with his own garage hed had to go back and forward a 
few times. And when hed spoken to Aviva while trying to arrange a booking to an Aviva 
garage, they hadnt offered to collect or return his car. But there would have been no need 
for Aviva to offer that then, as Avivas adviser was suggesting more local garages then. 
Aviva say they would collect and return 50 miles away and Ive no reason not to believe that. 
Its also not inevitable that a consumer does have to attend the garage while a car is being 
repaired. I dont think offering a garage 50 miles away is unreasonable if collected and 
returned.
In his email of 10 November Mr S said he had cancelled the allocation process. He said: 
I reported a claim and tried to arrange a repair online on 27/10/21. When I received no reply 
I called to chase on 4/11/21. After waiting on hold for 10 mins to speak to someone, I was 
told that a new appointment would need to be made, and that I would be contacted by the 
new repairer. I received no contact and called to chase again on 6/11/21. After waiting on 
hold for 15 mins I sent an email instead asking for the repair to be arranged. I have again 
received no contact, so have cancelled the repair online and will use my own repairer. I 
would like the Non-Approved Repairer Excess to be waived, as you have been unable to 
arrange for an approved repairer, requiring me to arrange for this myself.
Aviva did not tell Mr S they couldnt find him an approved garage. Mr Ss email above shows 
that he cancelled the garage allocation process himself. I do see that by this time two 
garages had been cancelled and Mr S was frustrated with what he considered to be Avivas 
delays and poor service. However I dont think its unreasonable that Aviva did not provide 
him a garage within about two weeks of the claim. And I think it was reasonable to expect 
Aviva to be given another chance to offer another of their garages for his car. I dont think 
that the circumstances he described above warranted Mr S cancelling Avivas garage 
allocation process when he did. And so I dont think that Aviva gave Mr S no option but to 
use his own garage, and it was his choice to do that when he did. 
Courtesy car 
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy booklet. It says that Aviva will only provide a courtesy car while a 
car is being repaired by Avivas approved repairer. This is not an unusual clause in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont think it is unreasonable. The policy is clear and Mr S agreed 
to that when he took out the policy. Ive found above that Aviva did not act unreasonably and 
it was Mr Ss choice to use his own repairer. So it follows that he wasnt entitled to a 
courtesy car under the policy and Aviva werent obliged to give him one. 
Avivas other service delays Mr S felt that Aviva took too long to authorise his own garage to do the repair, which was 
about three weeks after his claim. However its clear from listening to the recording of call 
between Mr S and Aviva on 23 November that there was still doubt then about whether his 
car was economic to repair. Aviva were considering this and wanted the garage to assess 
the car more before deciding whether to authorise the repair, and that can often take some 
time. Aviva apologised and I think the compensation they offered is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
