DRN-3293600
The complaint
Mr M complains about the role played by Retail Money Market Limited (trading as
RateSetter) in facilitating a finance agreement between him and a third party.
What happened
I set out what happened leading up to and in the course of Mr Ms complaint in my 
provisional decision, which I issued earlier this year. To make this decision easier to read 
though I will go through this background again here.
In August 2016 Mr M entered into a finance agreement. Under this agreement Mr M
borrowed the sum of £24,500 to be paid back over a period of 60 months. The monthly 
repayments were £524.21
RateSetter is not a lender in this complaint. Rather it operated an electronic system in 
relation to lending which Mr M used to find a lender. In other words, RateSetter provided a 
platform to facilitate lending between Mr M and the lender who ultimately lent to him. This 
lender is a third party who I will call R. R is not a party to this complaint.
Mr M has said this about his complaint between February 2016 to February 2017 I was in 
the grip of a crippling gambling addiction. I was able to borrow within that period over
£50,000 [from various lenders]. I believe I should never have been able to borrow the 
money I did, and it was irresponsible lending on behalf of those companies. One of which 
was RateSetter [it] must have been able to do appropriate checks and see what was 
happening.
Mr M has brought separate complaints about the other companies who he holds 
responsible for his situation. However, I am not looking at those other separate individual 
complaints in this decision. 
Specially in regard to RateSetter, Mr M suggests that if RateSetter had asked to see 
statements from one of his bank accounts it would have realised he had a gambling 
problem.
Further, as a consequence of what Mr Ms sees as the irresponsible actions of RateSetter, 
in facilitating his finance agreement with R, Mr M says he experienced a number of 
adverse events. He tells us he was already having money trouble before August 2016 but 
after this due in part, to this new lending he experienced financial difficulties, which in his 
opinion, then led to him entering into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) with 
some of his creditors. The finance agreement with R was covered by the IVA. 
Moreover, Mr M talks of almost losing his home and the ending of his marriage which he 
also attributes, in part, to the money he borrowed and then gambled away. 
Mr M seeks compensation for what he views as the impact of the borrowing, which 
RateSetter facilitated, on his life which he describes as being catastrophic. 
Mr M complained to RateSetter about all of this.
In response, RateSetter indicated that it had three main considerations when it looked at
Ms application, affordability of any prospective finance, Mr Ms credit score and his past 
credit history. It also indicated that it takes into account many factors including the 
information that Mr M supplied in his application and any previous applications, and 
information about Mr M held by third parties, such as credit reference agencies.
According to RateSetter, Mr M had a good credit history, in particular he had no missed 
payments. Moreover, it suggested it verified his income electronically. It added none of the 
information Mr M provided suggested that Mr M would have difficulty repaying the finance 
he wanted from R.
For all of these reasons RateSetter did not agree that its actions in helping Mr M obtain 
finance were inappropriate.
Dissatisfied, Mr M came to our service.
Once Mr Ms complaint was with this service RateSetter provided more information. It told us 
that Mr M told it the purpose of this finance was debt consolidation. Specifically, he 
mentioned that he wanted to pay off a loan with a balance of £19K and two credit card 
balances, one of £7,000 and one of £2,000. It added that it checked Mr Ms individual and 
household income using a third partys income verification tool. That tool according to it, 
showed that the information Mr M had given about his income was likely to be correct.
I looked into Mr Ms complaint. As I have already mentioned I issued a provisional decision. 
Here is what I said in that decision about what I had decided and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Why I dont think RateSetter met its obligations when it came to the checks it carried out
When RateSetter operated an electronic system in relation to lending by R to Mr M under a 
peer-to-peer agreement (P2P agreement), it was a regulated firm. This meant it had to 
follow the relevant regulations at the time for this activity. The regulations in August 2016 
were different to the current regulations, it is those regulations that were current in August 
2016 that I am referring to here.
In brief, under those regulations RateSetter had to make sure it carried out an assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the prospective borrower, that is Mr M. In particular, it had to consider 
the potential for the commitments under the P2P agreement to adversely impact the 
prospective borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the 
business was aware at the time the P2P agreement was to be made. It also had to take 
account of the prospective borrowers ability to make repayments in a sustainable manner 
for the entire duration of the agreement.
Further, RateSetter had to carry out other regulatory obligations to the same extent as if it 
was the lender. In particular, amongst other things, it had to put in place clear and effective 
policies and procedures to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. RateSetter was 
obliged to take account of relevant information when making this assessment.Moreover, it needed to take steps to ensure that information was complete and correct. The 
extent and scope of the assessment had to be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which might have included:
The type of credit
The amount of credit
The cost of credit
The financial position of the prospective borrower at the time of seeking the credit.
Also, RateSetter was also obliged to take account of obligations that were relevant to 
lenders (even though it was not a lender) and use that as guidance. The guidance indicated 
amongst other things, the factors it might consider when deciding if its assessment was 
proportionate.
Mr M was seeking thousands of pounds of unsecured credit payable over a fairly long period 
of time and the monthly repayments were substantial in the context. Moreover, RateSetter 
was aware that Mr M was also servicing various pre-existing debts prior to his application, 
including the debt he talked about consolidating. Further still, the debts Mr M wanted to 
consolidate were not his only unsecured debts, RateSetter was aware of this because it had 
a copy of his credit file. Also, the balances he told it about (that is £19,000, £7,000, and 
£2,000) that he said he wanted to clear, did not tally with the actual balances for those 
accounts. RateSetter ought to have known this too as its own records show it had this 
information. RateSetter has not shown that by consolidating the debts Mr M would actually 
have been in a better position financially. 
In these circumstances I think it would have been proportionate to look at Mr Ms actual 
income and outgoings as part of the creditworthiness assessment and the assessment of Mr 
Ms ability to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner. I also think it would have 
been proportionate given the size and timing of the credit that Mr M had taken out in the last 
twelve months and all the other issues I have mentioned above to ask further questions 
about this borrowing.
I appreciate that RateSetter tells us it tested what Mr M told it about his sole income through 
independent means. RateSetter did not check Mr Ms outgoings, it would appear, so it hard 
to see how it could have known with any degree of certainty that Mr Ms outgoings were at 
such a level that he still had enough income to make the repayments. RateSetter has talked 
about Mr Ms household income but it has not shown that it checked anything in relation to 
Mr Ms partner who contributed to the household income. It is not clear how it was able to 
accurately assess his household income and outgoings without checking out Mr Ms 
partners situation.
Moreover, the level of long-term new debt that Mr M took out in the twelve months 
immediately before Mr M came to RateSetter for yet more finance might reasonably have 
caused it to ask more about Mr Ms financial situation. 
The upshot of [all of] this was his overall borrowing, on the face of it, appears to have to 
have been increasing rapidly which does not fit with the profile of a person who is trying to 
consolidate and ultimately paydown debt.
It may be the case that Mr M had not missed payments or made late payments to his pre- 
existing debt in the 12 months prior to taking out the finance agreement with R. That does 
not necessarily mean Mr M was maintaining these repayments in a sustainable manner. 
Indeed, Mr M suggests he was very much in a robbing Peter to pay Paul situation. The 
timing and the amount of Mr Ms new debt suggests this was so. In any event, at the very 
least I find a reasonable operator of an electronic system in relation to lending under a P2P 
agreement would have asked more about this aspect of Mr Ms financial life.For all of these reasons I dont think that RateSetter did meet its regulatory obligations to 
carry out appropriate checks to establish if it was likely Mr M would be able to sustain his 
repayments without adversely impacting on his financial situation.
Affordability
That being said, it would not fair or reasonable to say RateSetter had to take the corrective 
action Mr M asks for just on the basis of what I have found above. Rather, I have to also be 
satisfied that if RateSetter had taken all the steps it should have done it would have found 
that Mr M could not afford to take out the P2P agreement with R or that it would be 
irresponsible to introduce him to a lender for some other reason. To this end I have taken a 
look at the information I have got about Mr Ms wider financial situation at the time that he 
made his application to RateSetter.
As far as I am aware, Mr M had Mr M had two current accounts  [namely] a sole current 
account and a joint current account, no savings accounts, and a joint mortgage account. I 
only have information about Mr Ms sole current account. 
The difficulty for Mr M here is that in order to make a finding about his financial situation at 
the relevant time and whether the finance was affordable, I would need information about his 
joint account[s] too. I dont have that information.
Moreover, normally, if lending is unaffordable Id expect to see that the consumer missed his 
initial payments. I have seen nothing to suggest this is the case here.
It follows from what I have said above that I can make no finding therefore that the lending 
that RateSetter facilitated was not affordable.
Irresponsible lending
However, Mr M suggests that his complaint is primarily about irresponsible lending due to his 
problem gambling, rather than about affordability. Even a cursory examination of the 
information I have about Mr Ms sole current account shows that he was gambling.
Moreover, I think given the degree and impact of the gambling fits the broad definition of 
problem gambling i.e. gambling that was disruptive or damaging to Mr M. Im satisfied that if 
RateSetter had done all the checks it should have done it would have seen this and I am 
also satisfied that neither RateSetter nor any responsible firm carrying out the regulated 
activity that RateSetter was carrying out would have progressed Mr Ms application in these 
circumstances.
Redress
When I look at redress I cant look at the situation in isolation rather I have to look at the 
wider overall picture. In this particular instance that means I have to look at the redress or 
concessions that Mr M has already had in order to decide what redress, if any, RateSetter 
ought fairly to be asked to pay. 
Generally, this service would say that if a consumer had the use of the capital he should 
have to pay it back. This is the approach I think is fair and reasonable in this particular 
instance. Even if, as here, the consumer, Mr M says that he gambled all the money away.
However, under the terms of the IVA it appears that Mr M was treated as having settled the 
debt even though from the information I have seen he or rather his parents on his behalf, 
short settled the debt. That is R accepted much less than it was owed. 
RateSetter has told us Mr M paid approximately £5,242.10 towards his debt before it was 
sold to a third party. It is not clear if this figure was the amount of capital he repaid, or the 
amount Mr M paid overall. On the face of it he has already had a substantial discount 
towards the capital he had to pay off. When I take into account the overall situation I dont 
agree it is fair or reasonable to say that in addition to this RateSetter ought to refund any 
interest and charges that Mr M paid in relation to the P2P agreement, plus interest on that 
refund.
As far as I am aware, the finance agreement has been marked as settled. If this is not the 
case I will look again at this point in my next decision. But to manage Mr Ms expectations, RateSetter is not the debt owner so it cannot tell the credit reference agencies to change the 
information they might have registered about the finance agreement. But if I were to be 
satisfied this is necessary I could require RateSetter to help Mr M ask R to remove any 
negative information it may have asked the credit reference agencies to register on his credit 
file. To be clear marking a debt as settled is not negative information.
I invited both RateSetter and Mr M to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to. 
Both parties responded.
RateSetter told us it had nothing further to add to the complaint. 
Mr M responded at greater length. Mr M rejected the provisional decision. In summary, Mr M 
thanked us for my provisional decision. Mr M explained how emotionally difficult it has been 
and still is, to deal with his complaint and why that was. He also told us about the impact this 
has had had on his mental health.
Further, Mr M reiterated points he had made before about taking into account his pre-
existing debt RateSetter ought not to have arranged for him to be put in touch with R so he 
could borrow from it. Moreover, Mr M pointed out that he had borrowed a large sum of 
money from R. He also suggested that RateSetter had no reasonable grounds for thinking 
that he applied to it because he wanted to consolidate debts. He reiterated that RateSetter 
ought reasonably to have known about his problem gambling.
Further, Mr M repeated points he had made before about why he blames RateSetter, 
amongst others, for the adverse events in his life. He also repeated that his parents made 
the payment that settled his IVA.
Mr M mentioned his credit file from 2018 of which we have a copy. He told us if we looked at 
his 2018 credit file information we would see that RateSetter had registered a default against 
his account and he wanted this removed. He underlined he wants his voice to be heard and 
his concerns understood.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for his very candid response to my provisional decision. And I dont 
underestimate how upsetting he has found it to go over a period of his personal history that 
he finds painful. We would not have asked about any of this if had not been strictly 
necessary to investigate his complaint. I also can well understand why he wants his voice 
heard and his concerns understood, he is entitled to expect that from this service. I wish to 
reassure him I have heard his voice and thought about his concerns, just as I have done for 
RateSetter.
Ive reviewed the complete file again, revisited my provisional decision thought about what 
the parties has said in response to my provisional decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ill deal with the points that Mr M raised in response to my provisional decision.
Mr M makes a point about his previous lending and why that should have made RateSetter 
realise it ought not to proceed. He has also commented on the amount of money he 
borrowed. All this is relevant to whether RateSetter carried out an appropriate assessment before it went ahead. The same goes for his point about whether RateSetter had proper 
grounds for thinking he wanted to consolidate his debt. 
However, I dont need to go over any of this again. I say this because I have already found in 
my provisional decision that RateSetter did not carry out a proportionate assessment, based 
on sufficient information, of whether Mr M could afford to repay the P2P agreement with R in 
a sustainable manner. In addition, I also found that it was irresponsible of RateSetter to 
proceed given what it ought to have known about Mr Ms problem gambling. It seems that 
RateSetter now accepts these findings, so they are not in dispute.
Mr M mentions why he thinks that RateSetter ought to have been aware of his problem 
gambling. But again, in my provisional decision I already found that RateSetter ought to have 
been aware of Mr Ms problem gambling. RateSetter seems to have accepted this finding. 
So, this point too has already been dealt with.
I dont doubt that it was very tough indeed for Mr M when his marriage broke down, he 
almost lost his house and he entered into the IVA. Although I just dont have enough detail 
about any of this especially the reason for entering into the IVA to be able to say that is fair 
or reasonable to say RateSetter caused these events and therefore RateSetter must take 
responsibility for the impact of these events.
Moreover, it remains the case that Mr M was able to short settle the debt with RateSetter 
and therefore did not ever pay off a substantial part of the capital. It does not help his 
position that his parents settled the IVA because this means a third party (namely his 
parents) not he made the financial loss in relation to the IVA settlement. I say this because 
nothing Mr M tells me suggests he repaid his parents. I dont say this to upset Mr M still 
further, far from it. But I must look at the whole picture when deciding what redress is 
appropriate.
I can see that a default and late/missed payments have been marked on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to the P2P agreement. I find as I did in my provisional decision that it is fair and 
reasonable that RateSetter must do want it reasonably can to get this information removed. 
The difficulty here is that R is the lender not RateSetter, as far as I am aware only R can ask 
the credit reference agencies to remove this information. R is not a party to this complaint so 
I cant require it to do anything. But I think RateSetter must take reasonable steps to help Mr 
M ask R to do this. Further, if Mr M wants to add a notice of correction, for example to give 
details about the findings in this decision RateSetter must help him to do that too and 
RateSetter must reimburse the costs Mr M incurs with the credit reference agencies (if any) 
in getting this done. Once the information has been updated RateSetter also reimburse Mr M 
for the costs he has to pay the credit reference agencies to get a copy of his credit file. This 
is so he can see what his up-to-date credit file says without having to pay for this himself.
It follows that I have come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision and also for the additional reasons I have set out in this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Retail Money Market Limited (trading as RateSetter) must take 
reasonable steps to assist Mr M to ask R to ask the credit reference agencies to remove the 
negative information it has asked them to register on Mr Ms credit file about the P2P 
agreement. It must also help Mr M if he wants to add a notice of correction about the 
agreement to his credit file. It must also reimburse the costs that Mr M incurs with the credit 
reference agencies in getting this done. Once the credit file information has been updated it must also reimburse Mr M for any fee he has to pay the credit reference agencies to get a 
copy of his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman