DRN-3223854
The complaint
Mr I complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC after a transfer 
went missing. Mr I feels the bank could have done more to recover the payment.
What happened
Mr I was expecting a payment into his Barclays account from overseas. The transfer 
shouldve been made from the overseas bank through a subsidiary bank in a second country 
into his UK account. But the money never arrived. 
Mr I says there were problems with transfer fees and despite attempts to transfer the sum in 
smaller amounts he still hasnt received anything. So Mr I wants Barclays to trace the 
missing funds and credit them to his account.
Barclays said itd searched for both the initial transfer and the second, smaller, transfer. But 
it hadnt been able to locate the payments. And that normally indicated the money hadnt 
reached Barclays from the intermediary bank.
Barclays said itd listened to the calls with Mr I and it hadnt said it would cover any fees in 
relation to the transfers. And Barclays couldnt do any more to trace Mr Is payments unless 
he could provide further information from the sending bank.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with Barclays response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator explained she could only look at the 
actions of Barclays as it was the only involved bank that was regulated in the UK. And based 
on the information currently available there was no evidence of the money being received by 
Barclays.
Our investigator understood the stress this was causing Mr I. But unless he was able to ask 
the sending bank for further information she couldnt ask Barclays to do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree with our investigator. The delay in paying the transfer fee had meant the 
overseas account had become dormant and required an activation fee.  And he couldnt 
provide the information Barclays had asked for. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr I has experienced and the distress the missing 
payment has caused him. I can understand his concern that the funds didnt arrive in his 
account and that Barclays didnt appear able to help.
As our investigator has explained, our service doesnt have any jurisdiction over the 
overseas banks. So Im afraid I can only look at the actions of Barclays after Mr I asked it to 
help him locate the transfer. 
When Mr I contacted Barclays it carried out searches for the missing transfers. But it couldnt 
find any record of the funds arriving at the bank. Although Mr I provided screenshots of the 
original transfer payment theres no record to show the payment arrived at Barclays. Without 
any further information from Mr I, Barclays said it wasnt able to do anything more. 
I understand Mr I says he expected Barclays to pay the transfer fees. And because it didnt, 
the overseas account became dormant and required further fees to reactivate. But Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Barclays was responsible for Mr Is transfer fees  or that it agreed 
to cover them. Thats not something it would normally do.
Barclays says that if Mr I is able to get further details from the sending bank, such as the 
MT103 payment message, it can carry out further searches. But thats something Mr I would 
have to request. Or Mr I could go back to the originating bank and ask them to help locate 
the missing funds. 
I do understand how stressful this has been for Mr I. And I appreciate the concern and 
impact caused by the missing funds. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Barclays is 
responsible for the non-arrival of Mr Is payments. And it follows that I cant ask it consider 
compensation for the distress this has caused. 
As Ive explained I can only look at whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in 
response to Mr Is complaint. And I think it has. As the money never arrived at Barclays I 
cant hold the bank responsible for the missing transfers. I think its done all it can to trace 
any payment attempts into Mr Is account based on the information its been given.
Unless Mr I is able to get further information from the overseas bank I cant ask Barclays to 
do anything more. And I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman