DRN-3635747
The complaint
Mr K and Ms W (also collectively referred to as the complainants) complain that they were 
given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc, referred 
to as the business or SJP. Theyre also unhappy about the charges levied by SJP.    
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The complainants are concerned that they werent told about charges when they 
sought advice from SJP.
A suitability letter dated 5 August 2019 (referred to as the August 2019 letter or the 
suitability letter) confirmed that during a previous meeting (in July 2019) they were 
given a document explaining the cost of the advice, and that they could contact SJP 
if they had any questions. 
The complainants were also sent investment certificates in August 2019 which 
explained the charges that had been applied and any ongoing costs. If the 
complainants had any concerns, they couldve contacted the business to discuss 
them. On the face of the evidence shes unable to say SJP applied any charges 
incorrectly. 
In 2019, the complainants were advised to invest an additional £10,000 each into a 
unit trust feeder, of which £10,000 went into the unit trust feeder for Ms W, and 
£10,000 into the joint unit trust feeder for their daughter. The funds were from 
matured investments previously held with another business, but they dont 
understand why part of it was invested in a joint unit trust held for their daughter. 
The August 2019 letter makes clear other options were discussed during investment 
planning and the complainants were happy to invest as recommended. 
They were also sent investment certificates confirming their investments. Despite 
what the complainants say, the certificates and suitability letter were sent at the same 
time, so SJP cant be blamed for them not receiving it.  
The letter was addressed in accordance with the contact details it had on file and the 
complainants confirmed they received the insurance certificates for the unit trusts. 
Despite what the complainants say, it was reasonable for them to check the 
documents they were sent and check for any errors or seek clarification with regards 
to anything that wasnt clear. 
She cant comment on why the recommendation letter wasnt sent to the 
complainants daughter. 
In an email dated 2 February 2020, the complainants were incorrectly told that the 
value of their portfolio was £218,676.85  which was a third less than it shouldve 
been. After querying the figure, the adviser emailed the complainants on 3 February 
2020  from abroad  apologising for the error and confirming the correct figure of 
£318,676.85. Given the apology and speed with which the mistake was rectified, the 
business has behaved reasonably to rectify the issue.       
In March 2020, there was communication between SJP and the complainants when 
the markets were crashing. Despite their concerns, the complainants were advised to 
take no immediate action because the markets were likely to improve. In the 
circumstances the advice was suitable. 
Any complaint about the complainants daughter will have to be made separately to 
SJP. SJP will also have to be given an opportunity to respond before it can be 
considered by us as a separate complaint.  
The complainants disagreed but were unable to respond (within the allocated time) given 
other pressing matters they were dealing with at the time. I understand a decision was taken 
to close the case and contact the complainants at a later date and/or wait for them to 
respond. In due course Ms W provided a response as well as raising a service complaint but 
still wanted more time. I note there has been much correspondence between Ms W and the 
investigator, but in short, Mr W made the following points:
The investigator hasnt read all the papers with a critical eye including the original 
complaint and emails thus ignoring the timeline. Instead, shes made up a false 
narrative, investigated it and (unsurprisingly) found it to be untrue. 
The investigator undermined what she said. 
Shes lost confidence in the investigators ability to deal with this complaint.
The investigator is suggesting that somehow, its her (Ms Ws) fault for not 
understanding the figure to be invested, not scrutinising the investment certificates, 
and not asking questions about a letter termed recommendation that they didnt 
receive.   
The investigator having considered the additional points raised in response to her first view, 
wasnt persuaded to change her mind. In summary, she said:
The advice and recommendation provided by SJP is set out in the August 2019 letter 
and thats why she referred to it. 
Shes sorry for any upset she may have caused in relation to her understanding of 
the conversation with Ms W, on 13 July 2021. 
oMs Ws main concern was that when she sought advice from SJP about what 
to do with her investments, she wasnt given any information about the 
charges. 
oThe funds were previously held in trust for their daughter, but when they were 
transferred, they were no longer in trust.  
She was told the funds would go into an ISA, and that thered be a small charge, but 
when the funds were transferred the charge was high. 
The August 2019 letter was sent following discussions they had around their 
investment planning (followed on from the advice in 2016)  the letter makes clear 
that several options were discussed. 
The complainants were happy with the recommendation and investment certificates 
were also sent conforming their investment choice.  
Although Ms W complains the funds were transferred prior to the letter being sent, 
shes seen evidence it was done at the same time. 
Its important for customers to check documentation so they have an opportunity to 
raise any concerns, otherwise the business is entitled to think they have no issues. 
Notwithstanding the portfolio valuation error, and the worry and concern caused, the 
adviser apologised for his mistake and provided the correct information the next day. 
In the circumstances he dealt with the situation reasonably. 
In March 2020, the complainants didnt take any immediate action because SJP 
advised them that the markets would improve which is fair and reasonable. 
Despite the complainants feeling betrayed, she cant say the adviser behaved 
unreasonably with them.     
Shes sorry if she gave the impression that she could/would consider a complaint about the complainants daughters investment. Despite what Ms W says shes not 
seen a letter or authority, and SJP also hasnt been given time to investigate the 
complaint  itll need to be raised with the business first before it can be considered 
by our service.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the complainants say Im unable 
to safely say that SJP behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr K and Ms Ws 
strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that they wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy. Im not going to list all of the correspondence provided by them, all the 
points made, or the extensive chronology  its not necessary for me to do so in order to 
reach a decision in this case. 
The purpose of my decision as part of our informal service also isnt to address every single 
point raised chapter and verse. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the 
complainants, and SJP, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case. I dont have to provide SJP Mr K and Ms Ws 
documents asking a series of questions in order to reach a decision in this case. 
I understand Ms W is unhappy about way the investigator interpreted some of her comments 
and she feels some of what the investigator said is false and defamatory. I note however that 
it wasnt the investigators intention to cause any offence and she was merely 
interpreting/paraphrasing what she thought Ms W was saying. Im sorry Ms W was caused 
any upset by this and Im aware the investigator has removed the relevant wording from her 
latest view.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I also note the complainants are unhappy about the service they received from us and made 
service complaint(s). Im aware theyre unhappy about the case not being dealt with properly 
and about potential delays. They seem concerned about being failed by our service, in the 
same way that they were purportedly failed by the business. But thats not the point of my 
decision, Im not here to consider a service complaint from them  which is a separate 
matter  Im only here to consider the complaint against SJP. 
Im also aware of a previous complaint made by Mr K and Ms W against a previous adviser, 
who then refused to have them as her client. I note that the complaint wasnt upheld but 
some ex-gratia compensation was offered, because the complainants had lost faith in SJP. I 
mention this, not to cause offence, but to make clear that this hasnt affected my 
consideration of this complaint, or the decision I have made. Neither has any suggestion that this may (or may not) be personal against the current adviser. Im only considering whether 
or not SJP has in this instance behaved unreasonably. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not that the fees in 
this case were made clear to the complainants through various documents provided to them 
at the outset. In other words, Im unable to safely say that SJP didnt make reasonably clear 
the charges/fees that applied to the advice/services provided. Despite what Mr K and Ms W 
say, its not uncommon for a charge/fee to be taken out of the invested amount.  
If Mr K and Ms W didnt understand or disagreed with the fees, they couldve raised an issue 
with their adviser at the time or decided not to go ahead with the recommendation at any 
point within the cancellation period  Im mindful that the complainants arent without 
investment experience and werent unfamiliar with the concept of fees/charges. So, even if 
the fees werent made as clear as the complainants wouldve liked, Im not persuaded that 
they wouldve done anything different. I note they only moved advisers after the relationship 
broke down and thats when they questioned the suitability of the advice but stayed with 
SJP. 
Despite what the complainants say, on balance, Im unable to safely say that the fees 
werent referred to or discussed verbally. If they still need clarification/further information 
regarding their fees Im sure SJP will be happy to help although Im conscious they no longer 
have any investments with it. I note in a response to the investigator, SJP said:
Should you require specific figures for the actual charges deducted, by product, I can 
request these from our administration centre but there may be some delay before these are 
available.
I note the complainants say that the charges were being continually made, but they didnt 
raise any issues. These charges of themselves dont suggest that fees werent discussed or 
that Mr K and Ms W werent made aware of the charges/fees either verbally and or through 
documentation provided on a later occasion. 
On the contrary, and on balance, it could be argued that Mr K and Ms W, on reflection, arent 
happy about the fees paid  but thats not something I can blame SJP for. A financial 
business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial
judgement, to set its own fees, as long as it has made these reasonably clear to the parties
and Im satisfied in this instance the adviser has  more likely (than not)  done that. 
I note that the August 2019 letter confirmed that the complainants had been provided with 
the relevant documentation explaining the cost of the advice, and that they could contact 
SJP if they needed clarification. The fact that Mr K and Mr W didnt contact the business to 
ask questions/seek clarification suggests that they didnt have an issue. Im aware that they 
were also sent investment certificates at or around the same time, which made reasonably 
clear the charges and fees, but they filed the documents away without going through them.  
I note Mr K and Ms W complain that they were made to follow a course of action that
wasnt their own or they didnt agree to. But despite what they say, I note that they werent 
obliged to follow the business recommendation and that they couldve said no at any point 
during the meeting or if they felt they couldnt at the time, afterwards during the cooling off 
period, or any point thereafter  but they didnt. 
I note the complainants say that they dont understand why they were invested in a joint unit 
trust held for their daughter  but I understand from the chronology provided they were very 
concerned about losing the trust, as a result of DIY actions by Ms W. On balance, Im 
unable to say that the reasoning and rationale for this wasnt made clear to them, or that the adviser behaved in a way that was wholly in contrast to their wishes. The August 2019 letter 
made the advisers recommendations clear following a detailed review of their 
circumstances.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that SJP invested their 
money in a product they didnt want. If they had other plans for the money, such as 
purchasing a property and didnt want to invest, they werent obliged to. 
I note SJP says in January 2020 a property that was identified was more expensive and 
required more funds being liquidated  not that they shouldnt have invested in the first 
place. In any case, I note SJP waived the early surrender charges in that instance and it was 
never the case that the complainants didnt want to invest despite other considerations they 
might have had. 
Im aware it was noted by the investigator that the complainants daughter had investments 
available of around £305,481 and the complainants already had investments to support a 
property purchase of around £425,000.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not the August 2019 
letter was sent to Mr K and Ms W, which made clear other options that were discussed and 
presumably discounted. I also think its unlikely that this letter wouldnt have contained a 
reasonably accurate summary of their discussions. 
I note the SJP says it was sent, along with the investment certificates, to the address it had 
on file. Its possible the complainants didnt receive the letter but received the investment 
certificates  posted at or about the same time  although, on a balance of probabilities, I 
think its unlikely. 
If it was the case, its possible that there was an issue with the post, although Im not aware 
of any postal issues at the time. Even if there was, I still cant blame SJP for the actions of a 
third-party postal service. 
The above notwithstanding, I think its highly unlikely that SJP wouldve drafted a letter, 
falsified its contents  an after the event justification as Ms W broadly put it  and 
deliberately only sent the investment certificates  on the basis that it could produce a false 
letter at a future date, to endorse an untrue narrative. In other words, that it discussed 
certain issues with the complainants when it didnt.   
Even Im wrong, and Ms W is completely right about SJPs alleged unscrupulous dealings, I 
simply have no persuasive objective evidence that this was (on a balance of probabilities) 
the case.  
In any event, I agree with the investigator that theres a responsibility on investors to check 
through their documentation and raise issues if theyre unhappy/unsure with anything. If the 
complainants simply filed away their investment certificates containing vital information (still 
in their envelopes), its not something I can blame the business for.   
In respect of the incorrect valuation I dont think theres any dispute that the complainants 
were (erroneously) given the wrong valuation. I appreciate that this wouldve come as a 
shock to them during uncertain times, but it wasnt done deliberately to cause Mr K and Ms 
W any distress and inconvenience and the adviser did say to call his practice manager if 
they wanted to double check. Im satisfied it was primarily down to human error whilst the 
adviser was abroad and still doing his best to respond to clients in the UK.   I note Ms W was wary from the outset and couldnt understand how theyd lost nearly 
£100,000 almost overnight and so made enquiries of her own  to confirm the true figure  in 
the hope that it was a typo. Thankfully, the issue was resolved within a day and the 
complainants were given the correct valuation without seeking to justify the error. I note the 
adviser said: 
Apologies all it was a typo done very late in Dubai! The value should have been 
£318,676.85.
Having dealt with other cases involving incorrect valuations  where incorrect figures were 
reconfirmed by the business repeatedly over weeks and months, leading one investor to 
notify the police  I dont think this case bears the same level of seriousness or similarity 
such that any compensation is due. Despite what the complainants say, I dont think their 
money was ever at risk. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im not going to ask SJP 
to pay any compensation in this instance.   
In respect of the advice the complaints received in March 2020  not to liquidate their 
investment  Im unable to say that the business did anything wrong or was unreasonable by 
asking them not to take any immediate action/to hold on. It could be argued that taking 
immediate action in a falling market  caused by a global pandemic  isnt a beneficial 
strategy in the longer term. 
The above notwithstanding, the complainants were entitled to follow their own course of 
action and surrender some or all of their investments if thats what they wanted to do. Ive 
seen nothing persuasive to suggest that they had a solid alternative plan of action. 
The chronology and email exchange, on balance, suggests a discursive exchange between 
Ms W and the adviser about what she was hoping to do. I note at one point she agreed not 
to liquidate her investments, and was grateful for the advice, before changing her mind 
again. So, in this instance, and on balance, I cant say that SJP is responsible for any losses. 
I note in one email the adviser explained the following:
I have explained that now is not the time to disinvest if you are not needing the capital in the 
short term and so I was very reluctant to advise you to switch into cash. Although you were 
still concerned (understandably), I thought the decision had been made. You only `lose 
money when you realise or switch to cash.
In a later email the adviser said:
I have given my response to you several times. 
Im afraid I do not have a crystal ball but I do not want you to lose money unnecessarily. We 
are in exceptional circumstances but it will pass. 
If you dont need the money now or in the near future as my other posts and discussions 
have suggested including my last one it is appropriate to hold fast and see this through. 
When confidence returns (i.e. markets know the end game) then so will your funds as history 
shows see graph). 
Everyone is in exactly the same position and as I said unless you need all the money in the 
near future the advice is to hold fast - we will adjust the portfolio after to adjust to your 
attitude to risk. 
Having said that if you are instructing me to switch into the Money Market fund then I will do 
so
The borrowing is a facility not a 50k loan, which was your idea initially (and is a good idea) 
and I have studiously explained to you on numerous occasions. This facility is available for this very circumstance so that you dont lose money unnecessarily by a knee jerk reaction if 
money is needed.
I appreciate Mr K and Ms W might not be happy with the overall performance of their 
investment(s). But complaints about investment performance alone is not something that our 
service would consider. The performance of an investment is dependent on market 
movements and isnt something that a business can guarantee or predict as demonstrated 
by the above email. In this instance Ive seen nothing to suggest that SJP gave Mr K and Ms 
W any guarantees about what they might get back. 
Ive not considered the complaint about Mr K and Ms Ws daughters investment(s). 
Regardless of their status as trustees for their daughter or what they were told by the 
investigator  which I understand is the subject of a service complaint  SJP hasnt had an 
opportunity to investigate the issue. In the circumstances, I think it would be appropriate to 
give SJP time to consider the complaint and then for it to be referred to our service if theyre 
unhappy with the response from SJP, or if SJP fails to respond withing eight weeks of 
receiving their complaint. 
I appreciate the complainants will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman