DRN-1918967
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to explain to him why money was 
deducted from a cheque he paid into a foreign currency account.
What happened
Mr B opened a US dollar account with Barclays, and he paid in a cheque for $3,000. His 
account was credited with $2,986.47. He said hed asked Barclays to explain this, but it had 
repeatedly and ongoingly failed to do this, or to raise a complaint for him about the issue. Mr 
B told us that after more than 20 messages, several telephone calls and one letter, Barclays 
still hadnt explained. 
Mr B said that if it was a mistake it should be corrected, if it was a legitimate charge, it 
should be explained. He also said he wanted compensation for the time this had taken, 
which should be enough to motivate Barclays to improve its customer service issues and 
enough so he felt compensated for his time, moral damages and stress. Mr B valued that at 
£3,000.
Barclays sent us the welcome letter it issued to Mr B when he opened this account, which 
explained the charges he would incur for paying in cheques. International cheques are either 
negotiated or collected. Barclays said it had negotiated Mr Bs cheque. Thats usually faster, 
but can still take a few days. It had charged the minimum commission amount, of £9, and the 
minimum interest, £2, which worked out as a $13.53 deduction on Mr Bs deposited amount. 
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake about the charges on Mr Bs account. It had looked at 
the service he received from its agents on the phone too, and didnt think it had let Mr B 
down there. But it said it had incorrectly closed Mr Bs complaint, because it thought it had 
addressed all the issues hed raised in linked complaints. So it said it would like to pay Mr B 
£100 to say sorry for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Barclays had to 
pay the amount of £3,000 that Mr B suggested. He said Barclays offer of £100 was a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve the complaint.
Mr B didnt think that £100 was enough compensation. He said that Barclays still hadnt sent 
him a breakdown of what hed been charged, it had only sent that to our service. And hed 
never received a final response letter for this complaint. He said hed tried to raise a 
complaint about the customer service representatives who had refused to provide 
transaction and charges details, and if we read the call transcripts, we would see this. Mr B 
also said hed never been offered £100 by Barclays. 
Our investigator wrote again. He sent Mr B a link to a page detailing the charges Barclays 
makes for foreign currency accounts. Our investigator said that Mr B had been sent some 
final response letters, but he hadnt been sent a final response setting out charges for the 
cheque. Barclays hadnt been able to resolve this in the time allowed, so it had suggested 
Mr B could refer his complaint to our service instead. 
Our investigator said there seemed to have been some confusion about complaints Mr B 
wanted to raise. Barclays wanted to avoid duplicates, but incorrectly closed Mr Bs complaint 
about the deductions from his cheque, which it has apologised for. Our investigator said he 
appreciated that Barclays hadnt offered £100 before Mr B complained to our service. It was 
doing so now, through us. Our investigator still thought that was a reasonable amount. 
Mr B said that Barclays hadnt provided a final response to this complaint, and he didnt think 
we should be considering other final responses it had sent as part of this complaint. He also 
said we shouldnt be speculating on whether such letters had reached him. He said hed got 
other letters from Barclays. 
Mr B said he now had the web page providing an overview of charges that Barclays had 
shared with us. But he said that Barclays shouldve sent those details to him. He thought we 
were ignoring this service failing by Barclays. And he repeated that he hadnt received any 
offer from Barclays. This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
When Mr B opened his account, Barclays wrote to him to explain the costs involved in 
depositing money in the account. I dont know if Mr B received this, but Im satisfied this 
letter was sent.
When Mr B paid in his first foreign currency cheque, he received less than the full amount. 
Thats in line with the terms that Barclays had sent to Mr B. I dont think that Barclays made 
a mistake about the amount. 
The deductions that Barclays makes from foreign currency cheques paid into this account 
arent detailed on the statements it issues. Mr B asked for information about the deduction 
from his payment using Barclays secure messaging service. 
The team who respond to those secure messages explained to Mr B that they have no 
access to the information that Mr B wanted, and cant get it. I understand that this was 
frustrating for Mr B, but I think its important to bear in mind that the account type Mr B has is 
only taken up by a small number of Barclays customers. And Mr B was given the phone 
number of a team who could help him, so he was clearly signposted to where he could get 
the information he wanted. 
Mr B preferred to continue to discuss this issue through secure messaging, so he raised a 
complaint instead. I think that was likely to mean that it would take longer to find out the 
information he wanted. But it clearly shouldnt have taken as long as it did. Its disappointing 
to see that Barclays didnt manage to send this information to Mr B, instead it suggested he 
bring his complaint to our service, as it hadnt been able to provide him with a prompt 
response. 
The details of the deductions from Mr Bs account are set out in my decision above. And 
Barclays has, through our service, made an offer of £100 to Mr B to say sorry for the delays 
in sorting this out. Mr B has recently said he hasnt received either the information he wanted, or the offer, 
directly from Barclays. But it is usual, when a complaint has been brought to our service, for 
communications then to come through us rather than directly from the bank to the customer. 
That avoids confusion when our service is trying to resolve a complaint. Thats not a mistake 
by Barclays. So I dont think Barclays has to pay additional compensation in this case, 
because it didnt send this information and its offer of compensation directly to Mr B after it 
became aware that he had raised his complaint with us.
Barclays has offered £100 to make up for delays in getting the information Mr B wanted to 
him. Mr B says that isnt enough, and hes suggested £3,000. I do think Barclays couldve 
provided a better service to Mr B. But I dont think it would be consistent with other awards 
our service makes to pay the amount that Mr B suggests. Like our investigator, I think that 
the amount Barclays has offered provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
So Ill uphold Mr Bs complaint, and award £100 in compensation. 
Mr B said hed also wanted to raise a complaint about how he was dealt with when he called 
Barclays about his complaint, but Barclays had refused to raise a complaint about this for 
him. When Mr B replied to our investigators view on this case, he said he wanted us to look 
in detail at the transcripts of calls he had about this. I can see Mr B was sent a final response 
on 27 September, which said that Barclays had reviewed a call, and hadnt identified an 
error with how the call was handled. 
But I also note that Mr B has described his complaint carefully to us. His complaint form says 
For the sake of simplicity I will limit this complaint to the following issue then sets out that 
hes complaining about the failure to explain the deductions from the cheque he paid in. 
Thats what our service has focussed on, and any widening of this investigation now would 
cause significant delay to the resolution of the key issue Mr B wanted us to look at. I dont 
think that would be in the interests of either party. So I dont think I should expand Mr Bs 
existing complaint now to cover a further issue about failure to raise a complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr B the sum of £100 that it has 
offered, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman