DRN-4347015
The complaint
Mr G complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna unfairly holds him responsible for 
lending he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr G says that in December 2021 he noticed hed been paying a monthly direct debit he 
didnt recognise to Klarna. He raised the issue with Klarna and it told him the payments were 
in respect of a fixed sum loan it had provided for the purchase of a licence plate in 
September 2020. Mr G says he didnt authorise that purchase nor apply for lending, so he 
raised a complaint. He also cancelled the direct debit.
Klarna responded to the complaint in January 2022. It said that it had found the email 
address used to apply for the lending agreement was one Mr G accepts was his and that 
various links wouldve been sent to that address to progress the application such as;
- The terms and conditions of the lending which were required to be electronically 
signed and sent back.
- A link to pay a deposit towards the agreement; and
- A welcome pack.
Klarna suggested that the licence plate seemed to include Mr Gs initials, and that the details 
provided for the application, including Mr Gs occupation, bank and contact details, were 
accurate.
Mr G referred the matter to this service. He maintained that he hadnt authorised the 
application and said that his social media, email and bank accounts had all been hacked into 
prior to the application. Mr G asked for the sums hed already paid to be refunded and for 
adverse information to be removed from his credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they werent persuaded that the agreement 
had been entered into without Mr Gs authority. They said that it was reasonable to have 
expected Mr G to have raised issue sooner, taking into account that hed been sent a 
welcome letter and subsequently paid towards the agreement for some 15 months. They 
also noted that theyd invited Mr G to provide evidence to demonstrate the hacking hed 
spoken of, but he hadnt provided any evidence. 
Mr G disagreed. He said that he had reported the matter to Klarna after just eight months 
and that no paperwork had been sent to his home address regarding the agreement. He also 
said hed been living at his workshop during the pandemic to keep his business open. Mr G 
asked for an ombudsmans decision so the case was passed to me.
Before issuing my final decision, I sought further information from the merchant which was to 
supply the license plate regarding the details it was passed at the point of application. 
Having been provided with that, I shared my impressions with Mr G. In summary, I said;
Having reviewed everything thats been provided, Im minded to reach the same conclusion 
as our investigator for the following reasons;
-The email and postal address, as well as bank details provided to Klarna at 
application were that of Mr G. I think Mr G accepts that. He says that his accounts 
had been subject to fraud but hes not demonstrated thats the case, despite being 
given ample opportunity to do so.
-Mr G says that his email address had been hacked and initially said it had been 
terminated, before saying it was still live but he didnt have access to it. Ive seen 
evidence which shows that Mr G said that hed stopped using that particular email 
address prior to the application being made, but its the one that he used to raise a 
complaint about what had happened with Klarna.
-Mr G says he raised the issue with Klarna after eight months rather than 15. This 
makes me question why he chose to continue to make payments. Additionally, his 
complaint form referring the matter to this service says that he first noticed payments 
being taken after 15 months.
-The merchant has demonstrated to this service the contact details it used for Mr G 
were correct  a different, albeit correct, telephone number, as well as the correct 
address to which it says a certificate of entitlement was posted. So, it seems that 
both Klarna and the merchant only had accurate contact details for Mr G  and those 
details were used to process and progress the application for lending. Mr G has not 
persuaded me that a third party couldve used those details to enter into the 
agreement without his authority.
Overall, I think theres insufficient evidence to suggest that someone other than Mr G 
entered into this agreement without his authority, for both the reasons explained by our 
investigator as well as those highlighted above. I expect Mr G might say that he disputes 
receiving the goods in relation to the contract that hes being held responsible for. It might be 
useful to know, however, that the merchant has told this service that its able to provide a 
copy of the entitlement certificate should Mr G is now require it. 
This complaint, however, is simply about whether or not Klarna has acted fairly in holding Mr 
G responsible for the lending it provided. Given the weight of the evidence outlined above, I 
provisionally think it has acted fairly.
In response Mr G said;
- Id got the timeline of events which led to this complaint wrong, and that weve not 
asked him for evidence of his other accounts being hacked.
- His bank account provider could confirm any fraud hed experienced.
- Hed queried the matter with his bank and then Klarna before ultimately stopping 
payments to the agreement, which accounts for the delay.
- The address used on the agreement was one where his former partner lives, 
although he had some services registered there, such as banking facilities.
- That Klarna or the merchant had not been consistent about whether the goods had 
been supplied by post or by email, as well as which telephone number had been 
provided.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as is the case here  Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances
Overall, what Mr G has said in response to the additional points I made above hasnt caused 
me to change my mind on this complaint. Ill explain why whilst responding to what Mr G has 
said.
Its fair to say that there have been a number of inconsistencies in Mr Gs account of the 
events which led to this complaint. For example, Mr G initially told our investigator his email 
and physical addresses were the same as those provided to Klarna. More recently he said 
that hed not been living at that address and that his email account had been hacked  it 
seems from the notes Ive been provided that he also told Klarna that hed therefore stopped 
using that email address, prior to this agreement being taken out. Thats problematic, 
because Ive seen evidence to show thats the email address which Mr G used to 
correspond with Klarna about the complaint, in excess of 15 months after he said hed 
stopped using it as a result of it being hacked into. 
I also think its fair to say that if Mr G had been the victim of fraud prior to this agreement 
being taken out, Id have expected him to be able to demonstrate it. Thats not to say that if 
he had done so, it wouldve conclusively shown that he hadnt given authority for this 
agreement. But it might have cast some doubt. In any case, Ive seen that our investigator 
explicitly asked Mr G for evidence of fraud on his other accounts and even specified the form 
that evidence might take  emails or other correspondence to show him having raised issue, 
for example. To date Mr G has not provided what I consider to be persuasive evidence to 
demonstrate hed been the victim of fraud.
It seems to me that Mr G maintains that he raised concerns about the agreement with Klarna 
after eight months rather than 15. But in his submission to this service he reported that he 
only noticed the payments hed been making after 15 months. Additionally, if that had been 
the case Id still question why Mr G continued to make payments. I havent seen any 
evidence  whether from Klarna or Mr G  that he raised the issue before 15 months into the 
agreement.
Lastly, Mr G has raised questions over the consistency in the merchants and/ or Klarnas 
account about whether the goods had been supplied by post or email. For clarity, the 
merchant told this service it was posted to Mr G. Significantly, and in any case, email and 
postal addresses held by both the merchant and Klarna were correct for Mr G, by his own 
account.
This complaint is about whether or not Klarna has treated Mr G fairly by holding him 
responsible for a fixed sum loan agreement, taking into account his assertion that it was 
entered into without his authority. All things considered, based on the evidence Ive been 
presented and on the balance of probability, Im not persuaded thats whats happened here. 
As a result, I cannot find that Klarna has done anything wrong by holding Mr G responsible 
for the fixed sum loan it provided.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman