DRN-3795293
The complaint
Ms W is complaining about a three-year bond issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc). She 
says the bond (held in an individual savings account (ISA) wrapper) was mis-sold to her by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium).
Ms W says she invested in the bond based on misleading information including that she was 
given to believe it had Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Ms W invested in a B&G Plc Three-year fixed monthly income IFISA Bond. Sales of this 
bond were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G plc, the issuer of the bond. 
BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And 
they were responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential investors were able 
to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 
to 28 February 2018.
Ms Ws investment in the bond
Ms W visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 after being referred by her partner who was 
already an investor. She says she was looking for a savings product with no risk to her initial 
capital and that would provide her regular income to supplement her employment income.
Ms W says at the time of investment she was close to retirement age and working as a 
carer. She had no previous investment experience and the £3,200 she invested in the bond 
was all of her savings, which she transferred to the bond from a cash ISA. The bond she 
chose offered an interest rate 6.12% per year, payable monthly, with the invested capital to 
be returned after three years.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short-term and payday 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Ms W 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Ms W applied online for the bond on 6 April 2017 and subsequently completed a form 
requesting her ISA transfer from her previous provider. The previous provider sent a cheque 
to Gallium in June 2017, funding Ms Ws bond.
Ive seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Ms W underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to testing whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Ms W was 
categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Ms Ws complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. They said Ms W had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investment. They then made further submissions 
once Ms Ws complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. Ive 
also considered what Gallium described as their position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Ms Ws complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Ms W as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with their regulatory obligations. 
Had they done so, Ms W wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that they shouldnt allow Ms W to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Ms W for the loss shes suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Ms Ws complaint.
Regardless of label, Ms W was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Ms W giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for them to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and the associated confirmations were sufficient 
for Gallium to satisfy themselves that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge 
and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Ms W made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when she received the 2019 email which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider all the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was not readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium have referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Ms W into certifying herself as belonging 
in a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Ms W fairly or acting in her best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Ms W, it is unlikely she would 
have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Ms W. In the circumstances Ms W would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded they shouldnt promote the bond to Ms W.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Ms Ws complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms W would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet their regulatory obligations. And so Im satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Ms W for her loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms W as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Ms W would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Ms W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
It is also clear that Ms W has been caused distress and inconvenience by the loss of her 
investment. Given her circumstances  including disruption to her retirement plans, this is 
money Ms W cannot afford to lose, nor is it money she is able to replace. I dont believe 
Ms W expected the loss of all her capital and I recognise the considerable worry she will 
have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a payment of £350 is fair compensation for the 
upset caused.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Ms W fairly, Gallium must:
compare the performance of Ms W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable;
add any interest set out below to the compensation payable; and
pay an additional £350 to Ms W to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the loss of her investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc Bond Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms W agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment if they wish to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then they may request an undertaking from Ms W that she repays to Gallium any amount 
she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms W's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Ms W would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond but is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
to Ms W the amount calculated as set out above. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should 
provide details of its calculation to Ms W in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman