DRN-3449533
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In September 2020 Loans 2 Go provided Mr W with a loan of £500. The loan was repayable 
over 18 months with monthly repayments of £114.28. 
Mr W failed to keep up with the repayments. He complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt carried 
out proper checks before lending to him.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr W referred his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
When he applied for the loan, Mr W told Loans 2 Go that his monthly income was £1,352 
and his expenses came to £506 (being £50 on other credit commitments and £456 on other 
living expenses). This suggested that Mr W shouldve been able to afford to make the 
monthly repayments on the loan out of his disposable income according to the figures he 
had declared.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search. Although borrowers who apply for loans of this type 
sometimes have an impaired credit history, I think the credit search raised some concerns 
that should have prompted Loans 2 Go to take its checks further. It showed that Mr W had 
defaulted in the past and had had county court judgments entered against him. One of these 
was an unsatisfied debt of £1,014 dating from just under three years previously. Hed 
defaulted on five accounts from 2015 onwards, with the most recent default being in January 
2019 when hed fallen into arrears on loan repayments of £6 a month. Given that the 
balances on all but one of the accounts in default were less that the £500 he was borrowing 
from Loans 2 Go, I think this should have caused Loans 2 Go to be concerned that he would 
also struggle to keep up the repayments on this loan.
I think based on the result of the credit search Loans 2 Go should have looked to verify the 
amount given by Mr W in respect of his living costs. As it didnt do this, I dont think its 
checks went far enough. 
But although I dont think the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mr Ws complaint. In order for the 
complaint to succeed I would also need to be able to say that proportionate checks would 
have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr W couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Although Ive concluded that Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks for the loan, 
Im not sure what it would have seen if it had done so as Mr W hasnt provided us with bank 
statements from around the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that these 
are the checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these 
would have given a good indication of Mr Ws financial situation around the time he applied 
for this loan. As I cant say with any certainty that Loans 2 Go would have uncovered 
information showing the loan would be unaffordable for Mr W, Im not minded to uphold his 
complaint.Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
In response Mr W said it wasnt right for Loans 2 Go to lend to someone with such a bad 
credit rating. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that 
otherwise looked affordable. Thats why I think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further 
checks before lending to Mr W to ensure that he could afford the repayments. But since I 
dont know what those checks would have shown, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman