DRN-2920445
The complaint
Mrs H complained about misleading information given to her by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in respect of her pension.
What happened
Mrs H bought a Regular Premium With Profits Personal Pension in 1985. She paid into the 
policy until 1992 and received confirmation in 1993 that her policy was paid up with effect 
from 18 January 1993. Mrs H also received a table showing her guaranteed pension per 
year depending on her age when she took her benefits. The amounts ranged from £353.88 
at age 60 to £543.96 at age 70.
Over the years Aviva added bonuses to the policy. This had the effect of increasing the 
guaranteed amount Aviva would pay Mrs H each year once she retired. Aviva stopped 
adding bonuses to the policy in 2003. Annual statements were sent to Mrs H and Aviva said 
things like it continued to apply zero regular bonuses as the guaranteed benefits remained 
high compared to the underlying investment values; and it wouldnt be fair to increase the 
guaranteed minimum payment by adding more regular bonuses.
In 2016 Mrs H asked Aviva why she hadnt been getting a bonus for several years. Aviva 
explained how the bonuses on her policy worked. It said no additional guarantees/bonuses 
had been due since 2003 as the policy already had guaranteed benefits (the sum assured 
and existing bonuses) and it wasnt able to keep adding bonuses as the policy value would 
be greater than the asset share (the amount the premiums paid are worth) held within the 
fund. Aviva further said that:
the policy had guaranteed growth and each month the guaranteed benefits would 
increase (which, it said, was why the fund value had continued to grow); and
at retirement it compared the asset share of the policy with the value of the guaranteed 
benefits and if the asset share was less than the guaranteed benefits it was topped up by 
a final bonus; but if the asset share was more than the guaranteed benefits the final 
bonus was zero.
In 2018 Aviva wrote to Mrs H in response to a further query she had about why a regular 
bonus hadnt been added to her policy in recent years. To all intents and purposes, it 
repeated what it had said in 2016.
In March 2019 Mrs H received a letter from Aviva titled Your retirement options which said 
her current pension fund was valued at £35,384.46. The letter further said the value was the 
current estimated amount available should Mrs H choose to take her benefits or transfer her 
pension fund elsewhere at the chosen retirement date. It said the value wasnt guaranteed 
and could still go down or up before the retirement date.
In May 2019 Mrs H received a statement which said the fund value was £33,997.31.
Mrs H complained to Aviva as she felt the fund value dropping in value from March to May 
contradicted what it had told her in 2016 about the policy having guaranteed growth and the 
guaranteed benefits increasing each month. She also asked why the final bonus rate hadnt 
been shown on the statements prior to 2018.
During a call in July 2019 Mrs H referred to the 2016 letter and asked Aviva why the fund 
value had dropped between March and May when she had been told the policy had 
guaranteed growth and that benefits would increase each month. Aviva said the letter was 
incorrect as it referred to a unit linked with profit policy whereas this was a conventional with 
profit policy. Aviva also said the value dropped because the final bonus rate changed.
In its final response to the complaint Aviva confirmed that what it had said in 2016 about the 
policy having guaranteed growth was incorrect. It also said the value reduced because the 
final bonus rate changed and the policy passed its anniversary date; and that the latest 
bonus statement showed the final bonus rate because Mrs H was approaching her 
retirement date. Aviva apologised for incorrect information being given in 2016 and sent a 
cheque for £50 to say sorry.
Aviva told us that in September 2019 (the maturity date of the policy) Mrs H took the 25% tax 
free cash from her fund that was available to her, with the remainder taken as an annuity.
Mrs H referred her complaint to us. She said Aviva told her that the amount was guaranteed 
and her benefit would increase but that isnt the case as her fund reduced between March 
and May. She also mentioned no bonus had been paid despite the fund making annual 
profits; and when shed asked Aviva about this she was told it wouldnt be fair to all 
policyholders  she questioned how this was being fair to her.
When it submitted its file to us Aviva said its letter in 2016 said how it calculated the 
retirement values and that elements of the fund werent guaranteed. But it now said that its 
comments about the policy having guaranteed growth and the benefits increasing each 
month were correct. But it felt its comment about why the fund value had continued to grow 
caused confusion because it could imply that was the only method of growth  when it was 
the primary method as it was guaranteed whereas a final bonus wasnt.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt that 
although there was some confusion with the information Mrs H received, Aviva had provided 
an explanation for this. He was satisfied that Mrs H had received the true value of her 
pension fund and Aviva hadnt withheld any money that was due to her.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators conclusion. She believed the guaranteed growth Aviva 
had referred to was an integral part of the policy  evidenced by the guaranteed amount 
continuing to grow annually (which she felt meant it was reasonable to deduce that it grew 
monthly  as per the information Aviva gave in 2016) until just before maturity. Mrs H also 
referred to the annual bonus and pointed out that from 2004 to 2019 the underlying fund 
grew by a single figure percentage profit. And in respect to Aviva being fair to all 
policyholders, she hadnt seen any evidence of this fairness being applied to her policy.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part of this 
final decision.Issue for me to consider
Mrs H told our investigator that the main point in her complaint was the contrast between 
what she was told in 2016 and the fund value dropping between March and May 2019.
I started my provisional decision by outlining how Mrs Hs policy and the bonuses worked.
The policy
The policy was a traditional with-profits deferred annuity and it aimed to provide Mrs H 
with a regular income (rather than a lump sum) when she retired. This type of policy 
worked by the insurer promising the consumer, in advance, a guaranteed annual 
pension from their selected retirement date  provided the consumer continued paying 
the premium. The insurers promise isnt on the size of fund the consumer might have at 
retirement but on the level of income theyd receive. The amount of annuity income the 
consumer receives during retirement doesnt depend on the underlying investment 
performance.
Throughout the lifetime of the policy the insurer might add annual bonuses to the future 
basic annual amount it had promised to pay. This will be at the insurers discretion, and it 
will usually only do this if it considers that a long-term view of the investments it makes 
within the with-profits fund can support it. Once added to the guaranteed basic pension, 
the annual bonuses cant be taken away provided the consumer continues to pay all the 
premiums they agreed to at the outset and they retire at the age they selected.
The insurer might also add a final bonus to the pension at retirement, if the consumers 
share of the assets in the with-profits fund were higher than the guaranteed amounts 
already promised. However, any final bonus isnt guaranteed until the day of retirement, 
and its entirely dependent on investment conditions at the time.
If a consumer stops paying the premium the insurer will typically scale back all the 
existing guaranteed amounts  including any bonuses already added. I said that wasnt 
inherently unfair as the amount the insurer promised to pay was based on the 
assumption the consumer would continue paying the premium until the retirement date.
The bonuses
Bonuses arent guaranteed and whether to add one to a policy, and how much to add, 
was a commercial decision made by Aviva.
Shortly after the turn of the millennium annual bonuses dropped significantly  often to 
zero. This was due to many factors, including a stock market decline and life expectancy 
increasing at a faster rate than insurers had allowed for when theyd set the level of 
existing guarantees. This typically led to lower growth and restricted the freedom 
insurers had to add further annual bonuses. Many insurers instead decided to pass on a 
consumers fair share of the assets in the fund by adding a final bonus.
Consumers were generally happy with the amount of discretion the insurer had when 
bonuses were being paid; but when there were low (or no) bonuses they were likely to 
want there to be more scrutiny. The regulator recognised this and required all insurers 
from 2004 to publish a Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM) 
document, which explained the steps they took in managing the returns and level of 
guarantees within the fund. The regulator was typically aware of the steps an insurer had explained in its PPFM that it took, through the supervision they conducted of insurers 
with with-profits funds.
In this case, Aviva effectively said that no bonuses were added to Mrs Hs policy 
because the guaranteed benefits already exceeded the value of the premiums shed 
paid. And adding further bonuses would mean the guaranteed benefits would further 
exceed the value of the premiums shed paid  which would be unfair on the other 
policyholders. I highlighted what Aviva had said using a simple illustration:
oMrs H and 99 other people each invested £1 into a with-profits fund (so they each 
started with a 1% share of the fund)
oafter a year the fund hadnt grown  so all things remaining equal the £1 each 
person invested was still worth £1 and each person still had a 1% share of the 
fund
ohowever, unlike the other 99 people Mrs H had guaranteed benefits and she had 
a bonus added to her policy
othe bonus had the effect that the current value of Mrs Hs guaranteed benefits 
was £5; which in turn meant the remaining £95 (or 95%) in the fund had to be 
split between the other 99 investors
oso effectively that meant the £1 Mrs H invested now gave her a 5% share of the 
fund when without the guarantees and bonuses it would only have been a 1% 
share; but the £1 the 99 other people invested now only gave them a 0.96% 
share of the fund (because Mrs Hs extra 4% share had to be absorbed by the 
other 99 investors)
oand if Mrs H received more bonuses going forward, the percentage of the fund 
she held would increase further and the percentage held by the other 99 
investors would reduce further; which wouldnt be fair on those investors.
So although whether to pay a bonus was Avivas commercial decision, it didnt strike me 
as unfair that it didnt pay one from 2004 given what it had said about Mrs Hs policy 
value being more than the asset share she held within the underlying fund. Also, having 
done a quick comparison between the premiums Mrs H paid into the fund and its value 
at the end, the rate of return over the years appeared to have been reasonable.
I next moved onto the crux of the complaint ie the fund value dropping.
Id seen various documents which showed the fund value at various times:
February 2015 £25,674.40
May 2016 £27,025.65
May 2017 £30,272.18
September 2018 £30,977.84
March 2019 £35,384.46
May 2019 £33,997.31
Aviva explained to me that the final bonus in March 2019 was calculated based on a 
completed policy term of 33 years, whereas by May the policy had moved into a 34th 
year. And, at the time, the bonus rate at the end of 33 years was more than it was at the 
start of the 34th year  hence why the value of the fund was slightly reduced. Id 
nevertheless seen from Avivas records that the value of Mrs Hs fund in July 2019 was 
back up to where it was in March.
Despite what Aviva had told us when it sent its file, I thought it was most likely that its 
first response to Mrs H following her complaint was correct ie that what it said in its 2016 letter was wrong. But I could see how Mrs H might have found the information confusing 
and conflicting.
However, I felt the important factor for me in deciding this complaint wasnt so much 
whether the information Aviva provided was incorrect or misleading, but whether it led to 
Mrs H acting differently to her detriment. I wasnt persuaded that it did.
I thought that even if Aviva had provided clear/correct information in 2016 it was most 
likely that Mrs H would still have waited for her retirement date to come in September 
2019 and to start receiving benefits then. I said this because her fund value consistently 
increased from 2016 and 2019 so she wasnt aware of a potential contradiction between 
the fund performance and what shed been told in 2016. So, to all intents and purposes, 
the policy was performing as Mrs H expected it to. I hadnt seen anything to suggest that 
Mrs H contemplated taking her benefits early but chose not to because of what shed 
been told in 2016. Further, the content of the 2016 letter had no bearing on the bonuses 
and guarantees that had already been applied to the policy or on those that would be 
applied in the future. And it had no bearing on what the value of Mrs Hs fund would have 
been when she took the benefits.
Summary
Irrespective of whether the content of Avivas letter in 2016 was incorrect/misleading or 
not, I wasnt persuaded that it had a detrimental impact on Mrs H. This was because I 
didnt think it led to her acting any differently  ie she still would have chosen to receive 
benefits from the policy at the declared retirement date. I therefore concluded that Aviva 
didnt need to do anything to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
I havent received anything further from Aviva.
Mrs H didnt agree with my provisional decision. She repeated some points that shed made 
in response to our investigators opinion (which Ive outlined above); but made some others, 
including:
she had invested in another with profits plan where she was entitled to a share of the 
profits and recalled that profits were shared every year that the plan existed
as Id confirmed that Aviva had agreed its comments about guaranteed growth and 
benefits increasing monthly were correct, and as the value didnt increase every month, 
she was prepared to return the £50 Aviva had offered in order for this to be corrected
my illustration of how this type of policy worked doesnt stand up to scrutiny as no 
financial business would give one investor special terms without them having to pay a 
special premium  she didnt therefore feel it was relevant to the complaint
the policy said that any allocation of profits would take the form of additions to the annual 
amount of the annuity, payable on the same terms and conditions as the annuity  she 
said there was nothing said about bonuses, it was all about profits; so she felt that each 
year that the fund made a profit all policies participating in profits should have been 
allocated a pro-rata share of the profits
she said Aviva could decide that there are other conditions for bonuses, but she has 
never been made aware of how it decides when and how to share profits
my reference to it being the insurers discretion whether or not to add annual bonuses 
isnt supported by the policy schedule or terms and conditionsshe never considered taking benefits early and her plan was always for the policy to 
reach full term  she didnt therefore think her acting differently should be part of my 
considerations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive re-reviewed the complaint in light of Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision; but my 
conclusion remains the same.
The fundamental issue of this complaint is the discrepancy between:
what Aviva said in 2016 about the policy having guaranteed growth and the guaranteed 
benefits increasing each month, and
Mrs Hs pension fund value reducing between March and May 2019.
I dont have the power to fine or punish a financial business just because it did something 
wrong (thats the role of the regulator). I do have the power to require a business to put 
things right if something did go wrong and that had a detrimental effect on the consumer. But 
in order to decide if there was a detrimental effect on the consumer I need to look at what 
would have happened had there been no wrongdoing  because there are times where a 
financial business does something wrong but it has no impact on the consumer.
As an example, an insurer might tell a consumer that their claim for a smashed window 
following a burglary is covered under their home insurance policy, and the consumer then 
arranges for the window to be replaced. The insurer then tells the consumer they made a 
mistake and the window isnt actually covered. I wouldnt automatically make the insurer pay 
for the replacement window just because it incorrectly said the claim was covered. Instead 
Id look at what the consumer would have done if the insurer had correctly told them at the 
outset that the claim wasnt covered. And if they would have replaced the window anyway in 
order to secure their home, then the insurers wrongdoing didnt lead to the consumer acting 
any differently to how they would always have acted  they spent money to replace the 
window, but they would have done that anyway.
In my provisional decision I concluded that irrespective of what Aviva said in 2016 Mrs H 
would most likely have waited for her retirement date to come in September 2019 and to 
start receiving benefits then. Mrs H has now confirmed that my initial conclusion was correct. 
So, applying the above thought process to this case, it remains my view that irrespective of 
whether Avivas letter in 2016 contained wrong or misleading information (although, to be 
clear, my opinion remains that it most likely did), the situation Mrs H found herself in would 
have been the same situation she always would have been in  the policy would have 
reached its full term and Mrs H would have taken her benefits in September 2019; and the 
bonuses added/not added to the policy up to that point would have been the same.
In respect of the point Mrs H makes about monthly growth versus yearly growth, although 
the annual statements Ive seen show growth each year, I dont think this automatically 
means that the fund grew every month. Ultimately this is an investment, and investments 
can grow or reduce. Nevertheless, as I said in my provisional decision, I can see why what 
Aviva said in 2016 could give the impression of monthly growth. But, as above, if what Aviva 
said was misleading or unclear, it remains that I dont think Mrs H was adversely affected.So overall, Im not persuaded that Avivas wrongdoing  in respect of its letter in 2016 
containing incorrect or misleading information  had a detrimental effect on Mrs H that Aviva 
now needs to put right.
Regarding the bonuses, the policy said Any allocation of profits will take the form of 
additions to the annual amount of the Annuity payable. Its not stated in the policy that 
Aviva has to allocate any of the profits or has to make additions to the annual amount of 
annuity payable. Similarly, it doesnt state that if a certain event happens Aviva has to 
allocate some of the profits. All it says is that any allocation of the profits  ie if theyre 
allocated  will be additions to the annuity (the additions effectively being the bonuses Ive 
referred to). In my view, the policy not being specific as to when any allocation of profits has 
to be made gives Aviva the discretion whether or not to allocate them.
I note what Mrs H has said about her not being made aware of how Aviva decided when 
and/or how to share profits. I said in my provisional decision that once it became apparent 
that consumers would likely want more scrutiny over these decisions, the regulator required 
insurers to publish a PPFM document to explain the steps they took in managing the returns 
and level of guarantees within a fund. The PPFM documents should be available to Mrs H if 
she wants more information on how and when Aviva decided to share any profits. I also think 
its worth repeating that through its supervision of insurers the regulator was aware of the 
steps/decisions they had explained in their PPFM documents.
Finally, whilst I accept it doesnt represent a true situation, I think my example of how this 
type of policy works  in the sense of comparing the guaranteed benefits against the value of 
the premiums paid  sufficiently illustrated the point I was making.
Overall, it still doesnt strike me as unfair that Aviva didnt pay a bonus from 2004 given what 
its said about Mrs Hs policy value being more than the asset share she held within the 
underlying fund. And the rate of return over the years appears reasonable given the 
premiums Mrs H paid into the fund and its value at the end.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman