DRN-2615067
The complaint
Mr U complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance, wont refund to him the full deposit that he paid for a car that has been 
rejected.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr U under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in September 2019. He returned the car to the dealer because of 
some issues with it and repairs were attempted. The issues continued so Mr U complained 
to Mercedes-Benz Finance and it accepted, in August 2020, that he could reject the car. It 
said that it would settle any outstanding finance, return £4,022.19 of Mr Us deposit, refund 
15% of six of his monthly payments (totalling £507.34) for any loss of enjoyment he may 
have experienced and pay him an additional £150 for his overall experience. 
Mr U has returned the car but says that he should receive a refund of his full deposit so he 
complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be 
upheld. He recommended that, in addition to the steps that it had already agreed, Mercedes-
Benz Finance should also refund the deposit of £6,033.29 that Mr U paid for the car, with 
interest, pay interest on the refund of the monthly payments and remove any information 
from Mr Us credit file in relation to the agreement. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
has explained in detail why it considers that it shouldnt be required to refund Mr Us deposit 
in full. It says that the deposit is a payment for the usage of the car so a partial refund to 
reflect the use that Mr U has had from the car is appropriate  and that our investigators 
recommendations give a significant benefit to Mr U.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the car that Mercedes-Benz Finance supplied to Mr U was a new car with a price of 
£62,145.50 and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be 
free from even minor defects;
Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr U and that he can reject it;
it said that it would settle any outstanding finance, return £4,022.19 of Mr Us deposit, 
refund 15% of six of his monthly payments (totalling £507.34) for any loss of 
enjoyment he may have experienced and pay him an additional £150 for his overall 
experience;
the invoice for the car shows that Mr U paid an initial deposit of £2,000 for the car 
and then paid a further deposit of £4,033.29 and the agreement shows that he paid a 
deposit of £6,033.29;
our investigator recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should refund that 
deposit in full but Mercedes-Benz Finance says that it shouldnt be required to do so 
as that refunding it in full would give a significant benefit to Mr U;
Ive carefully considered the explanation that Mercedes-Benz Finance has given - but 
in circumstances such as these, its not practicable to put Mr U in the position that he 
would have been in had the agreement been properly performed - so I consider that 
the appropriate remedy is to put him back in the position that he would have been in 
had he not entered into the agreement (with him paying for the use that he had from 
the car) - that includes refunding the deposit that he paid for the car so that, if he 
chooses to do so, he can use it for a deposit on a replacement car; and
Mr U has returned the car and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund Mr Us deposit in full and to take the other actions 
set out below.
Putting things right
Mr U has returned the car and I find that, if it hasnt already done so, Mercedes-Benz 
Finance should end the hire purchase agreement at no cost to him. I find that it should also 
remove any information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Us credit file.
Mr U paid a deposit of £6,033.29 for the car. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mr U that deposit in full, and to pay interest on the 
deposit.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has offered to refund to Mr U 15% of six of his monthly payments 
(totalling £507.34) for any loss of enjoyment of the car that he may have experienced  I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable but I consider that it should also pay interest on the 
refunded amounts. I consider that it can keep the other 85% of those payments, and the 
other monthly payments that hes made under the agreement, as payment for the use that 
hes had from the car. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has also offered to pay £150 to Mr U to compensate him for his 
overall experience. These events will have caused some distress and inconvenience for 
Mr U and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay him 
the £150 that its offered to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement at no cost to Mr U (if it hasnt already done so).
2. Refund to Mr U the full deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr U 15% of the first six monthly payments that he made under the 
agreement for any loss of enjoyment of the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Us credit file.
6. Pay £150 to Mr U to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mr U a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman