DRN-2771250
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered 42,410 
miles.
Within the first two weeks of getting the car, Mr K experienced issues with the wheels 
wobbling and the front brakes grinding. He contacted the supplying dealer who instructed a 
third-party garage to carry out repairs.
When the car was returned to Mr K, the repairs were successful, but he encountered a new 
issue with the gearbox when pulling away. Mr K contacted Advantage and said he wanted to 
reject the car.
Advantage arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspector found that the 
gearbox had fluctuation and surging at low speed but said this was a characteristic of the 
gearbox. The inspector said there was a known fault with this type of gearbox which caused 
a similar issue where the plastic spacers break up. The inspector said that the car was fit for 
purpose at the time of the inspection.
Based on the findings of the report, Advantage rejected the complaint.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He said the report 
wasnt accurate because the inspector hadnt test driven the car for long enough. Hes since 
had an accident in the car and its been write off, leaving a balance due under the finance 
agreement. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the issue with the gearbox made 
the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr K didnt agree. He said his local garage had told him there was a fault with the gearbox 
and that the independent inspector had deleted fault codes after he had inspected the car.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because advantage supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr K  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold 
the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had an inherent fault at the point of 
supply, as opposed to a fault caused by wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the fault was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Ive taken account of everything Mr K has said. Ive also looked at the inspection report. I 
appreciate that Mr K doesnt agree with the report but as an independent third party report I 
need to give it significant evidential weight.
The report notes that the wheel wobble and brake grinding has been successfully repaired. 
So, Ill focus on the gearbox issue. The inspector noticed fluctuation at low speed but said 
this was a characteristic of the gearbox. He identified a possible cause due to wear and tear 
to the plastic spacers.
Ive taken account of what Mr K has said about the inspector deleting fault codes after the 
inspection. I havent seen any evidence to support this and I can see that in the report itself 
the inspector says there werent any fault codes in relation to the gearbox.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded by the inspection report that the issue with the 
gearbox isnt an inherent fault which would make the car of unsatisfactory quality. I think , 
based on the in section report, that the issue is more likely to be caused by wear and tear. 
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
So I wont be asking Advantage to accept Mr Ks request to reject.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman