DRN-1787358
The complaint
Ms E has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably refused to consider her 
claim for vet treatment for her horse under her horse policy. 
References to AXA Insurance UK Plc includes all its agents and affiliates in connection with 
Ms Es policy. 
What happened
Ms E first took out her policy with AXA in February 2017 to cover one horse which I shall call 
L. In May 2019 she wanted to add another horse which I shall call H. So, she contacted AXA 
and paid an extra premium of £350.72 on 21 May 2019 for Hs cover. 
AXA then wrote to her on the same day informing her it needed certain documents 
concerning H and until then coverage was limited. 
Another party gave Ms E this horse H as a gift. The evidence of this gift is dated 4 June 
2019. Unfortunately, H hurt himself in a field on 19 June 2019 and Miss E called AXA to 
initiate a claim. And then sent on the gift certificate too. AXA received this on 25 June 2019. 
AXA said that because it didnt receive this before H hurt himself on 19 June 2019 the 
restrictions as regards the cover for H were still in place so it wouldnt consider Ms Es claim.
Ms E thought this was unfair and complained but AXA wouldnt change its stance. So, she 
brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that her complaint should be 
upheld, and that AXA should now consider Ms Es claim. AXA disagreed so Ms Es 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. First, I would like to 
apologise to Ms E for the delay in dealing with her complaint. Sadly, this service is 
experiencing a high volume of complaints but in addition it took some time to unravel all the 
different entities involved in her insurance policy given initially AXA said it wasnt involved. 
However, its now clear that AXA are the entity ultimately responsible for Ms Es policy. 
As the investigator explained AXA told Ms E on 21 May 2019 following the payment of her 
premium for H that it required the following within 30 days:
Full cover will only be granted effective from the date that the following outstanding
documents/information are received and deemed acceptable-:
A copy of any vetting the client may have done or been given access to
A copy of the purchase receipt
However, AXA didnt receive Ms Es gift certificate in relation to H until 25 June 2019, so it 
didnt lift the policy restrictions until then, which it said meant Hs injury on 19 June 2019 
wasnt covered. Notwithstanding that the gift certificate for H clearly showed ownership for H 
passed to Ms E on the 4 June 2019.
Whilst that might be what the policy strictly says, given its clear Ms E owned her horse from 
4 June 2019 and paid AXA a premium for that horses cover of £350.72 on 21 May 2019, I 
consider its not fair or reasonable that AXA applies its strict policy terms to the detriment of 
Ms E in these circumstances.
The reason for this is what is detailed in Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations to which 
AXA must adhere. As the investigator detailed these say the following:
ICOBs 8.1.2b 
For contracts entered into or variations agreed on or after 1 August 2017, a rejection 
of a policyholders claim for breach of a condition or warranty is unreasonable unless 
the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach.
Clearly the fact her horse injured himself in a field on 19 June 2017 so that Ms E needed to 
make a claim for his treatment has nothing to with the fact Ms E was a little late in providing 
the gift certificate to AXA. I also find it substantially significant that AXA had Ms Es premium 
for this cover from 21 May 2019. This means in contract law that the consideration has 
passed effectively affirming the offer and acceptance of insurance for Ms Es horse called H, 
subject to Ms E confirming from what date she owned her horse, which as we know was 4 
June 2019. 
So, to refuse to consider Ms Es claim falls foul of this specific regulation in OCOBs, which I 
dont consider is satisfactory. I also consider since AXA had payment of the required 
premium for this horse, its simply not fair to use its conditions to refuse to consider her 
claim.  
AXA in its response to the investigators view singularly fails to deal with its duties under 
ICOBs merely referring to the policy conditions and saying this service upheld a similar 
complaint in its favour previously. However, we decide each case on its own merits and its 
own facts so were not bound by previous decisions, if indeed the case AXA referred to (but 
couldnt clearly identify) was actually decided by an ombudsmans decision, rather than the 
outcome being agreed with the investigators input. 
Therefore, I consider AXA must now consider the merits of her claim based on the vet 
treatment for dealing with Hs injury, without reference to these conditions. 
 
My final decision
 So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to consider Ms Es claim for the vet treatment for Hs 
injury sustained on 19 June 2019, subject to the relevant conditions pertaining to vet 
treatment claims and as if the proof of purchase/ownership had been provided prior to 19 
June 2019. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman