DRN-3210529
The complaint
Mrs H complains that the loan she had from Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Mrs H took out a loan with Everyday Loans on 29 January 2020. She borrowed £2,600 and 
was due to repay £212.29 monthly for 30 months, until 2 August 2022.
Mrs H says that Everyday Loans did not carry out adequate affordability checks before 
agreeing to lend to her. She says she struggled to make the repayments and had to borrow 
further to pay for everyday expenses.
Everyday Loans says it verified Mrs Hs job and income, reviewed bank statements, 
obtained a payslip and conducted a credit search. It adds that it used a statistical average to 
estimate her other living expenses and the checks showed the loan was affordable with 
some of the money being used to repay existing credit. It says it believes its checks were 
proportionate and the repayments were sustainable over the term of the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that Everyday 
Loans had enough information to see that Mrs H was already over-committed to credit 
repayments and refinancing some of her debts didnt make the new loan sustainable. She 
recommended that any payments made by Mrs H should be deducted from the principal and 
that Everyday Loans should refund any overpayments plus 8% statutory interest. She also 
said that any adverse information should be removed from her credit file.
Everyday Loans responded to say, in summary, that:
It had used a year-to-date figure for income as her recent salary had been affected 
by Christmas and unpaid leave;
Part of the loan had been used to consolidate existing credit so her repayments 
going forward were lower;
A monthly tax payment was due to end in March 2020;
Adverse information on her credit file was explained by her partner leaving without 
warning and a friend using a mail order account without paying.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs H. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement; or
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Hs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained proof of 
Mrs Hs income, checked her credit file and reviewed her bank statements. So Im satisfied 
that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks which showed:
Mrs H was using the loan for debt consolidation and a new oven;
Her average monthly income was around £1,800, based on year-to-date figures, and 
she paid rent of £330;
After the consolidation of two credit accounts, Mrs H had a monthly credit 
commitment of around £660;
An estimated £567 for living expenses;
The defaulted loan and credit card accounts were due to Mrs Hs partner leaving 
unexpectedly;
A mail order account was in dispute due to it being used by a friend without Mrs Hs 
knowledge.
Everyday Loans calculated Mrs H would have £33 remaining each month after making the 
new loan payments and considered that it was affordable on that basis. I cant agree this 
made the loan sustainable for Mrs H because:
The loan was over a term of 30 months and Everyday Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
oSuch a limited disposable income would have meant Mrs H had no money for 
unforeseen expenses;
Mrs H was committed to using around half of her income for credit repayments going 
forwards  this is a significant proportion of her income and indicated she may 
struggle to manage her money;
The estimate Everyday Loans used for other regular expenditure appears to be 
understated from what Ive seen in her bank statements:
oI could see regular payments of over £470 each month, before food and travel 
were taken into account;
So, whilst Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks I cant agree 
that those checks showed the repayments on the loan were sustainable for its 30-month 
term even though I acknowledge Mrs H was making her repayments on time.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mrs H and Everyday Loans did not make a 
fair lending decision, although I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs H received as a result of having been
given the loan. The repayments Mrs H made should be deducted from this
amount.
oIf this results in Mrs H having paid more than she received, then any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs H;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file regarding
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman