DRN-3552938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc wont refund money they lost, which they 
believe was as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mr and Mrs F, befriended some neighbours, who Ill refer to as Mr and Mrs W. Initially Mrs F 
became friendly with Mrs W, while walking their dog, but Mr and Mrs F were then introduced 
to Mr W. Mr and Mrs F had known the neighbours for a couple of years when they started to 
discuss Mr Ws work as a cryptocurrency trader. Mr and Mrs F were told that Mr W was 
doing well with his trading, and they were curious to find out more.
Mr W shared his details with Mr and Mrs F, and they exchanged some messages, which 
demonstrated how well Mr W was doing and showing the potential returns they could get.  
Mr F has told us that the opportunity to make money was of particular interest to them, as it 
may have enabled him and his wife to help his daughter and her husband, who has a 
medical condition, and he hoped it may help give them some security.
Mr and Mrs F discussed terms with Mr W and agreed to invest. Entering into what they 
believed was a contract of agreement, with Mr W being responsible for any money entering 
and exiting the trading account. Mr and Mrs F were also told that stop losses would be 
placed on trades, with Mr W saying this would mean it was impossible to lose any money. Mr 
and Mrs F have said they did carry out their own research into crypto-currency, and what 
they found was consistent with what Mr W had told them.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs F decided to invest, making payments from the joint Santander 
account they hold. Mr W showed them screenshots of their trading account, which appeared 
to show profits being made on their investments, which persuaded Mr and Mrs F to keep 
investing. From what Ive seen, in total, Mr and Mrs F made payments totalling £57,775 to 
Mr W with the intention of the money going towards investments. The majority of this amount 
was made up of payments from their Santander account. A breakdown of the payments Mr 
and Mrs F made from their Santander account is listed below;
17 January 2021 £4,000
19 January 2021 £10,600
19 March 2021 £15,000
2 June 2021 £10,000
8 June 2021 £3,175
Mr and Mrs F have said they asked Mr W for access to their trading account, so that they 
could view the trades directly, but Mr W never provided them with this. Mr W told Mr and Mrs 
F that they had made substantial profits, but they would need to pay tax of £3,175, in order 
for the profits to be released (which Mr and Mrs F paid on 8 June 2021). Mr and Mrs F 
began to ask Mr W to withdraw funds, and after chasing numerous times, and having been 
given promises of payments, Mr and Mrs F received a payment from Mr W, for £3,175 on   
26 June 2021, which was paid into their Santander account.
Mr and Mrs F started to become suspicious when further promises of lump sum payments 
werent forthcoming, although Mr W did start to make some payments back to Mr and Mrs F. 
From the information Ive seen, between 26 June 2021 and 29 August 2021, £29,675 was 
paid back into their Santander account (over the course of 15 payments).
Mr and Mrs F have said that after speaking to some other neighbours, who had also 
invested with Mr W, but who had not received promised returns, they thought they had been 
scammed.
Mr and Mrs F raised the matter with Santander, who looked into the concerns they had 
raised. It considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code), of which it is a signatory and sent its final response on 27 January 2022, not 
upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. In summary, it considered this to be a civil matter and 
therefore not suitable for consideration under the CRM code.
Mr and Mrs F have told us that they have reported the matter to the police, who are actively 
investigating the case.
Mr and Mrs F then brought their complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked 
into things. Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, as she considered this 
was a dispute between Mr and Mrs F and Mr W. In summary, she didnt think that what shed 
seen were the typical hallmarks of a scam.
Through their representative, Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our Investigators view. In 
summary they maintained they were sure that a fraud had taken place and gave examples of 
comments from Mr W that they considered to be false. Including guaranteeing high returns, 
and that money couldnt be lost. As well as this, they said it wasnt legitimate to be asked to 
pay tax on withdrawals and that this frequently happens with Cryptocurrency scams.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have referred to other decisions issued by our 
service. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, 
each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to 
do, Ive looked at the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Fs complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them, but I dont think I 
can fairly say Santander should reimburse them. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs F, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But not all cases where 
individuals have lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Santander has signed up to and was in force 
at the time Mr and Mrs F made these payments. And outside of the Code, Santander also 
has wider obligations to fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of 
fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the transfer channel 
used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push 
payments, for example it doesnt cover civil disputes and the code defines an APP scam as;
DS1(2) 
(a) APP Scam Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across 
Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in 
accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent 
There are further definitions provided in the Code, but Ive included the section that is 
specifically relevant to Mr and Mrs Fs case.
So, to start, Ive considered whether Mr W was running a scam. Theres a high legal 
threshold for this. It wouldnt necessarily be enough that Mr W was promoting high-risk 
investments using methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.
Its clear the agreement Mr and Mrs F entered into with Mr W didnt go as Mr and Mrs F 
thought it would and I can understand entirely why they feel so strongly about what has 
happened. But having considered everything provided by both Mr and Mrs F and Santander, 
Im not persuaded, from what Ive seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say Mr W set 
out with the intention to defraud.
This means I dont think Santander is responsible for reimbursing Mr and Mrs F under the 
CRM Code or because of any wider obligation it has to protect Mr and Mrs F. I say that as, 
on balance, there are a number of factors, in the circumstances of this case, that arent 
typical of this being a scam;- Mr W has returned payments to Mr and Mrs F, totalling nearly £30,000. This doesnt 
take away from the fact that Mr and Mrs F are still at a loss, but I wouldnt expect a 
fraudster to return anything to them, if he intended to steal their money  let alone 
such a substantial sum. 
- Im mindful Mr and Mrs F feel they were being groomed. But Im not persuaded it is 
usual behaviour for somebody who lives in such close proximity to set out with an 
intent to defraud. I say that as Mr and Mrs F had known Mr W for a number of years, 
considered him to be a friend and were aware of Mr Ws genuine contact details. 
More typically, with scams such as these, the scammers provide false details, so as 
they cannot be traced after defrauding their victims. Here Mr and Mrs F being aware 
of Mr Ws genuine details, would only increase Mr Ws risk of being caught with no 
benefit to them.
- In the circumstances of this case, Mr W continued to communicate with Mr and Mrs F 
by way of messages and through in person conversations. He continued to make 
promises of returning money to Mr and Mrs F, and at least in part did return some 
money. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not, once 
in receipt of a victims money, will not send anything at all and will then no longer be 
contactable. It doesnt seem to be the case here that Mr W hasnt shown an intent to 
send funds back to Mr and Mrs F.
- Its not apparent, from what Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs F were put under pressure to 
invest, which is often the case with investment scams. Rather, Mr and Mrs F became 
interested and curious after hearing, over a period of time, about Mr Ws trading and 
approached him for further information about how he traded and what opportunities it 
may bring. 
- It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to ask for 
funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name, which Ive seen 
happened in this case. From the evidence Ive seen I cant fairly or reasonably say 
the beneficiary account demonstrates the characteristics that there was a clear intent 
to defraud.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs F have said, in that the rates of return being 
offered were high and that being told you cant lose your money, can be an indicator of a 
scam. There may well have been some sharp practice in terms of how Mr W has spoken to 
Mr and Mrs F about the investment opportunities. But this doesnt automatically mean that 
he was willingly and intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately setting out to scam Mr 
and Mrs F at the time. It is sometimes the case that people set out with a genuine belief that 
they can provide, what they promise, but that something goes wrong. Questionable trading 
practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be that Mr W acted 
dishonestly and deceitfully, by taking payments from Mr and Mrs F in circumstances where 
he had no intention of investing for them. 
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, Mr W 
set out with the intent to defraud Mr and Mrs F. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM 
Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask Santander to refund the money Mr and Mrs F have lost, 
as I dont think Santander treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly when it said the payments they 
made were not covered by the CRM Code. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F and I dont underestimate 
how disappointing this will be for them. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund the money Mr and Mrs F have lost.Finally, I am very mindful that there is an ongoing police investigation regarding Mr W. But 
this, in and of itself, isnt enough for me to conclude that a fraud has taken place and I am 
not aware that there have been any charges brought or any convictions. For the reasons Ive 
given, as it stands, there is not enough information for us to say this is a scam. However, 
should new material evidence come to light, the first port of call for Mr and Mrs F would be to 
go back to the Bank for them to see if this new evidence would lead it to reconsidering 
reimbursement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman