DRN-3351534
The complaint
Miss E complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. And Miss E says that 
Morses knew about her mental health issues and she never understood the terms regarding 
the refinance of loans for rebates.
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans for Miss E.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
instalmentsAmount *Highest 
combined 
repayment
1 11/11/2019 16/04/2020 34 £300.00 £15.00
2 30/01/2020 15/09/2020 34 £300.00 £30.00
3 16/04/2020 10/11/2020 34 £300.00 £30.00
4 12/05/2020 10/11/2020 34 £200.00 £40.00
5 10/11/2020 13/04/2021 34 £500.00 £25.00
6 11/01/2021 29/07/2021 34 £500.00 £50.00
7 13/04/2021 - 35 £500.00 £50.00
8 29/07/2021 - 35 £500.00 £50.00
9 07/09/2021 - 35 £300.00 £65.00
*these figures show the weekly repayments for all the loans  combined repayments.
After Miss E had complained, Morses responded with its final response letter (FRL). 
Morses explained that its Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) discussed with Miss Es 
agent the issues Miss E had raised. 
And in that FRL Morses said:
The CRM discussed your complaint with the Agent who confirms they were unaware 
of any problems you encountered regarding your mental health and wellbeing during 
the loan process, they advised they did not have any concerns to suggest you did not 
fully understand the Terms and Conditions of the loan sale.
Morses went on to say it had not done anything wrong but said that as a goodwill gesture, 
Miss Es outstanding balances (around £1,200 being a mixture of capital and interest) would 
be written off. I understood this took place on 13 December 2021.
Miss E was not satisfied and referred it to the Financial Ombudsman.
During the complaint process, Miss E made it clear she also felt that the loans had been lent 
irresponsibly and our adjudicator checked with Morses, and it agreed we could investigate 
both parts: that part relating to Miss Es mental health concerns and her understanding 
together with that part on irresponsible lending.
Our adjudicator did not think he had enough to conclude that the Morses agent was aware of 
any of her mental health concerns or that she could not manage her finances. So, he did not 
uphold that part of her complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Morses should not have lent to Miss E in relation to loans 6 to 9 
and that Morses should put things right for her. Morses agreed and it calculated the redress 
due to Miss E, and that the redress would have led to a refund of around £120.
Miss E was not content with this and did not see why the refund was £120. She was 
expecting the refund to be higher. 
Miss E spoke to our adjudicators several times to explain that the Morses agent knew about 
her mental health issues and her difficulty understanding certain things. She also said that 
the Universal Credit payments she received were for her and her partner and not just for her.
Miss E was adamant that all 9 loans were unaffordable to her. The unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to resolve.
Having reviewed it I asked Miss E for additional information about her financial situation from 
September 2019 to September 2021. Miss E has taken time to send to me all her bank 
account statements for that period and to screenshot all her Universal Credit assessments 
and payments (which includes her partner within the one assessment documents) for the 
same period.
Having received a great deal of additional information I issued a provisional decision and I 
gave both parties two weeks to come back to me with any additional evidence or points 
either wished to make before I issued a further decision on or around the 22 April 2022.
Morses has not replied.
Miss E telephoned our adjudicator who explained some of the parts of the provisional 
decision to her and what that meant for her. I have listened to that recorded call. Since that 
telephone call no additional evidence or comments have been received from Miss E. 
I have duplicated my provisional decision in the next section of this final decision. It is in 
smaller type to make it more noticeable. 
It seems appropriate to issue the final decision now which will be in the same terms as the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss E could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
My provisional decision dated 8 April 2022 
It is duplicated here for ease of reference for both parties. Its in smaller type to make it stand 
out a little. 
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Es complaint.
Undisputed loans  loans 6 to 9As Morses has accepted that it is content to put things right for Miss E for loans 6 to 9 then I do not 
need to reconsider those lending decisions as the complaint in relation to loans 6 to 9 appears 
resolved.
I have noted that Miss E did not understand the redress part and I can answer that here.
Even though Morses offered to write off (and in fact appears to have actually written off) the 
outstanding balance on loans 7, 8 and 9 since then things have changed. One change is that Miss E 
did not think that this was good enough as a resolution, and so her complaint has been referred to us. 
And the second is that our adjudicator upheld Miss Es complaint about loan 6 as well as loans 7, 8 
and 9.
Morses offer in the FRL before Miss E brought her complaint to us, was made without admission of 
liability. And now that it has accepted the outcome from our adjudicator on loans 6 to 9, then the 
amount due back to Miss E would be calculated in line with our normal approach for calculating 
redress after successful complaints.
Loan 6 was repaid in July 2021 and so the refund for that is relatively straightforward  it would be a 
refund of all the interest and any charges Miss E paid for loan 6, plus 8% simple interest added on 
(less tax). The refundable part will be the interest paid on loan 6, together with the interest paid on 
loans 7, 8 and 9 so far.
And Morses is entitled to take back the capital sums that Miss E received in relation to loans 7, 8 and 
9, even though it has written that debt off. And it is entitled to use the refundable part of the loan 6 
redress to do that. As Miss E has had the benefit of those capital sums then its right that Miss E 
repays it.
From the statement of accounts I have been sent by Morses for loans 7, 8 and 9, it looks like Miss E 
last made any payment to those three loans on 23 October 2021. For completeness I have included 
loans 6 to 9 in the last section of this provisional decision under the heading putting things right.
The evidence from Morses
I am disappointed that despite these loans being relatively young, Morses has no additional 
information over and above what it has already sent relating to the applications. By this I mean the 
figures and information it gathered at the point of sale. I have the spread sheet compiled by Morses, 
and I have copies of the agreements which are brief and tell me very little.
Morses has said: 
due to data retention and cleansing, the information we have provided you with is all we 
hold for this account. I understand that to mean that there is no more it can send me and so I 
have reached my provisional decision with that in mind.
I have the credit file from Morses which it carried out in November 2019. In relation to this Morses has 
explained:
we only run a credit score for the first loan, none after. For the other loans, we carry out 
affordability checks and some CRN checks to make sure the loan is affordable and we can 
lend responsibly. However, those are not hard searches and it would not determine how 
much the customer was offered. That depends on their payment performance, time on book, 
etc.
Here is some information taken from that credit search. To make it easier to read I have inserted £ 
where they ought to be and I have completed D to read Default.
Number of all SHARE accounts 24
Number of active SHARE accounts 20Number of accounts with zero balances 3
Total value of active accounts £4522
Total value of settled accounts £0
Worst payment status last 3 months on active accounts Default
Total value of accounts opened in the last 6 months, excluding mortgages £446
Total current balances on active accounts opened more than 12 months 
ago, excluding mortgages£3343
Reviewing the credit search before loan 1 was approved, it tells me that Miss E had outstanding debt 
which is not unusual, but here I can see that out of 24 Share accounts which means accounts of one 
kind or another, Miss E had only 3 at zero balance and she had some of historic debt amounting to 
£3,343.
Another part of the search shows that she had another home credit loan and Morses would have 
known that.
And of the older debt Morses would have known that she had these types of accounts which had 
fallen into default, including a utility account.
Total value of default accounts in sector 3 (Revolving credit and Budget 
Accounts)£224
Total value of default accounts in sector 4 (Telecoms) £1163
Total value of default accounts in sector 5 (Utilities) £896
Total value of default accounts in sector 6 (Home shopping) £801
I have factored these details in to my deliberations.
Evidence from Miss E
Miss E spoke to our adjudicators before and since one of our adjudicators issued his letter of opinion. 
Those calls were recorded and I have listened to each one.
Miss E, more recently, has made some pertinent points relating to her home credit assessments. 
These are that the money received included a PIP and that the Universal Credit assessments covered 
her partner as well.
Miss E has sent to me many screenshots and having reviewed them all I can see that these 
documents do show her own and her partners monthly incomes after tax. And that often this was zero 
for her partner.
It has also been demonstrated to me from this evidence from Miss E that the Universal Credit 
payments each month altered depending on:
ohow much Miss E and her partner earned for the assessment period; and
owhether it included a payment for her rent or whether it listed the sum that was going to be 
paid directly to her landlord (the system changed around November or December 2020); and
oher partner received a carers allowance of around £163; and
oMiss E received a payment described as limited capability for work and work-related activity 
of around £343.63  this may be the reference to a PIP.
The significance of these documents is that Miss Es submission to me that the Universal Credit 
payments were assessed for both together has been made out. So, on current evidence I accept her 
submission, and I have factored this into my deliberations as well. And, together with her bank 
statements I can see what Miss Es financial position was for the lending period with Morses.Miss E has sent to us information and letters from medical professionals showing the diagnoses she 
received together with the assistance afforded to her  both financial and through a support worker. 
I appreciate Miss E has said that she informed her work about these personal developments in 2019 
and she has told our adjudicators that she says she informed her Morses agent of the same thing. 
By contrast, Morses in its FRL has said that the agent who visited Miss E has no recollection of that. 
So, I cannot really take this much further. As an informal dispute resolution service, which is what the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is, its not always possible for me to discover exactly what took place 
especially where this surrounds conversations between individuals in private homes several years 
ago.
And this element of Miss Es complaint I have thought about very carefully and I have given my 
provisional view on this towards the end of this written provisional decision.
My provisional findings
I recognise that Miss E has said that all 9 loans were unaffordable, but I also have heard Miss E say 
to our adjudicator that she felt that the money was ok for the first few loans and it was a bit later in 
time that it started to go wrong.
And loan 1 was for a relatively modest sum for a £300 loan over 34 weeks, and Miss E was a new 
customer to Morses. Overall, giving the benefit of the doubt to Morses, I think that Morses carried out 
proportionate checks and I think its reasonable and proportionate to have lent to Miss E in November 
2019.
I have considered the information Miss Es support worker has sent to me which does tell me that 
Miss E had financial problems, but at that stage I would not have expected Morses to have known 
about this. And, as Miss E has told me, she had a carer and a support worker to assist her and so 
overall I think that loan 1 was alright.
Loan 2 overlapped with loan 1 and indebted Miss E for a further period. I can see that she received no 
Universal Credit in January 2020 (although her rent was paid and I understand she likely received the 
limited capability for work and work-related activity of around £343). I think that the reason she likely 
did not receive a payment from Universal Credit was because Miss E was earning enough. And at 
that stage of the lending relationship I would not have been expecting Morses to be reviewing bank 
statements.
So, I am planning not to uphold Loans 1 and 2.
I am planning to uphold Miss Es complaint from loan 3. Using all this information and evidence 
available to me, then I think that Morses had enough reasons to recognise that additional enquiries 
and additional checks ought to have been carried out when Miss E approached it for £900 soon after 
having loan 2 approved.
I have been sent Morses account notes which show that in April 2020, just after the national lockdown 
to address the Covid 19 pandemic had commenced, Miss E was furloughed.
Miss E approached Morses for a loan. This would have been when she was asking for loan 3 on 16 
April 2020 and the Morses account note says: 
[Miss E] has been furloughed [sic] from work but with her univesal [sic] credit and partners 
money has plenty of income
That note plus the explanation and evidence from Morses about the checks it carried out before 
lending suggests to me that it relied on Miss Es assertion that she had plenty of income. This seems 
hardly enough considering that it knew Miss E had been furloughed and considering the national 
Covid 19 lockdown position.
From the Morses statements of account I have seen that around £126 of loan 1 was paid off using 
what appears to have been the capital sums of loan 3. And so, Miss E would have received around £174 in her hand after loan 3 was approved (the loan was for £300) and would still have been 
repaying loans 2 and 3 together. That further indebted Miss E for another 34 weeks on loan 3 and her 
payments would have been around £30 a week for loans 2 and 3 for a further 5 months until loan 2 
was going to come to an end.
Miss E was on a low wage anyway and having been subject to the furlough provisions surrounding 
her employment then the Universal Credit assessments for that period would have been particularly 
relevant. And I think that had Morses carried that out properly it would have seen that Miss E and her 
partner together were being assessed for those payments.
As a household they were on a low income and following the onset of the lockdown plus Miss E being 
furloughed then additional enquires and verification checks ought to have been carried out. And 
I have seen from Morses explanations to us that it did not do that. Despite this Morses lent again.
Loan 4 was approved when loans 2 and 3 remained outstanding and increased Miss Es payments to 
£40 a week, and indebted Miss E for a further 34 weeks. Without additional financial enquiries to 
know the full nature of Miss Es finances I do not consider this to have been responsibly lent.
Loan 5 approved on 10 November 2020 was a £500 loan of which she would have received around 
£364 in her hand as the capital was used to repay loans 3 and 4 first. Although this may have 
reduced her weekly repayment figure it was for a larger sum and as Miss E has said  she did not 
fully understand the concept of refinancing loans into fresh loans. But, further than the issue 
surrounding Miss Es understanding, I think that by loan 5, the full and more comprehensive financial 
assessment which I think ought to have commenced at loan 3 certainly ought to have been carried 
out for a £500 loan after a year of being constantly in debt. I do not think Morses did that.
And for each of the loans 3 to 5 Morses had the original credit search which, although for the earlier 
loans may have been just about acceptable to it, I think it knew enough that after being furloughed in 
April 2020, and after asking for larger and /or overlapping loans it ought to have got the to the bottom 
of Miss Es situation. And I dont think it did.
Having reviewed Miss Es evidence of Universal Credit assessment documents, the payments she 
received and that they were for her and her partner, combined with the fact Ive been able to review 
Miss Es bank statements, then I do not think Miss E was able to afford loans 3 to 5 and I am planning 
to uphold Miss Es complaint in relation to those loans.
Loan 6 onwards I have addressed at the beginning of the provisional decision  these are undisputed 
and for completeness I have included them in the later section about putting things right.
Morses agents knowledge of Miss Es mental health issues
Morses has sent to me its Vulnerable Customers Policy document which I have reviewed. And as a 
regulated lender it must comply with the FCA CONC Guidelines chapter 2.10  Mental Capacity 
Guidance.
Miss E says that she told her Morses agent about her diagnoses and mental health issues. Miss E 
says she was not able to understand those parts of the loans relating to the refinancing of the loans.
A lender when granting a consumer credit agreement should consider the customer's individual 
circumstances.
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states that:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be 
made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or 
reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may lead to 
the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form of mental 
capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list.Miss E says she told the agent and Morses has spoken to that agent as part of the investigation 
around the complaint and says he did not know. As I said earlier, this resolution procedure is not the 
forum to determine who said what to whom. So, I have looked at the overall situation and what 
Morses was expected to have done. And it does not appear to have breached the FCA CONC 
provisions here.
And even if Morses did have any grounds to suspect that Miss E may have some mental capacity 
limitation, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not necessarily mean that the customer does not 
have the mental capacity to make an informed borrowing decision.
And I dont think Miss E is saying she could not understand any of the loan procedure or what having 
a loan meant. My understanding is that Miss E is saying she did not understand one part  that 
relating to the refinancing of loans.
The first refinance was when Miss Es third loan was used to repay loan 1. And I have provisionally 
decided to uphold loan 3 (and the loans after that) on affordability grounds. And so, I point this out so 
that Miss E knows the whole picture presented by this provisional decision.
On this part of the complaint I do not feel I have enough to conclude that Morses knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known that Miss E lacked understanding about the refinancing of loans. There are 
no records on the Morses account notes with which I have been provided which refer to that. And as 
I have said earlier, on Miss Es own explanations, she had a support worker and she had a carer who 
were on hand to be able to assist her. So even if she had needed additional assistance to understand 
the refinancing of the loans, I think its likely she had the support around her to be able to ask.
Overall, I am provisionally deciding not to uphold this part of Miss Es complaint.
My final decision findings 
Morses has not replied. 
Miss E has spoken to our adjudicator about the provisional decision and did not have 
anything else to add and has not sent to us anything further.
In the circumstances I have decided that I uphold Miss Es complaint in part. I uphold the 
complaint about loans 3 to 9. 
I do not uphold that part relating to Morses agents knowledge of Miss Es mental health 
issues as I have explained in the provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss E from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss E may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss E in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
I direct that Morses should do as follows
My decision is that Morses shouldnt have given Miss E loans 3 to 9. Morses has already 
conceded in relation to loans 6 to 9.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss E towards interest, 
fees, and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss E 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees, and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.
If this results in Miss E having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans, including any capital sums 
for loans 7 to 9 that has already been written off by Morses.
If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss E. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss E.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Es credit file in relation 
to loans 3 to 5.
The reason for the uphold by our adjudicator for loans 6 to 9 was that the overall pattern of 
lending. Miss Es borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Es credit file.
Morses does not have to remove loans 7 to 9 from Miss Es credit file until they have been 
repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss E a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club 
PLC does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman