DRN-2359132
The complaint
Mr R complains Lifesearch Partners Limited didnt pass on disclosures he made when he 
applied for life and critical illness cover and income protection.
What happened
In 2019 Mr R spoke to broker Lifesearch, as he and his wife wanted life and critical illness 
cover as well as income protection. Lifesearch asked Mr R questions about his health, and 
Mr R told it hed recently had changes in his bowel habits which hed been referred to a 
gastroenterologist for. Life, critical illness and income protection cover was arranged for 
Mr R, with separate cover arranged for his wife. 
Mr R says that when he received paperwork from the insurers that provided his policies, he 
realised Lifesearch hadnt passed on what hed told it about his symptoms and referral to a 
gastroenterologist. And that when he told his insurers about his symptoms and 
investigations, they cancelled his policies and refunded his premiums. Sadly, at around this 
time Mr R was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. 
Mr R complained to Lifesearch, as he was unhappy it hadnt included his disclosure in his 
applications for cover. In its final response, Lifesearch accepted it hadnt passed on Mr Rs 
disclosures but said that even if it had passed them on, Mr Rs applications would have been 
postponed and none of the insurers it worked with would have offered him cover in the 
circumstances. But it recognised its errors had caused Mr R distress. It apologised for this 
and offered Mr R £300 compensation. 
Mr R brought his complaint to our service, as he didnt think £300 was enough compensation 
for the distress Lifesearch caused him. He said it looked like hed lied on his applications, 
that his cover was set up based on false information and that while he was being 
investigated and treated for cancer, he was under a false assurance that he was protected. 
And finding out he wasnt protected made an already devastating time for him and his family 
worse. 
After looking into Mr Rs complaint, our investigator said it wasnt in dispute that Lifesearch 
had caused the non-disclosure but even if it hadnt, Mr Rs investigations meant he wouldnt 
have got cover elsewhere. However, our investigator accepted Mr R was distressed to find 
he didnt have the cover hed thought he had and thought Lifesearchs offer of £300 
compensation for this was fair.
Mr R asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, saying his circumstances 
were uniquely distressing and warranted more than the moderate £300 compensation 
suggested so far. Therefore, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am to hear of Mr Rs diagnosis, and I realise this must 
be a very upsetting and difficult time for him and his family. However, Im not asking 
Lifesearch to do anything further here. Ill explain why.
Lifesearch accepts its adviser didnt include in Mr Rs applications what Mr R had told it 
about his symptoms and referral to a gastroenterologist. As its not in dispute that Lifesearch 
made that error, I dont need to consider that further. However, what I do need to consider is 
what would be a fair and reasonable way to put that error right. 
Lifesearch has said if it hadnt made that error, and had included in the applications what 
Mr R had told it about his symptoms and referral, Mr Rs ongoing investigations mean he 
wouldnt have been offered cover by other insurers. And its provided evidence from its 
system to support this. So Im satisfied that Mr R unfortunately wouldnt have got the cover 
he wanted. However, Lifesearchs error did cause Mr R to think he had cover when in fact 
that wouldnt have been the case. So Lifesearch caused Mr R a loss of expectation.
Mr R says the £300 compensation suggested so far is more in line with an error that caused 
moderate upset and some inconvenience. And that Lifesearchs error caused him much 
more upset than this. I think Mr R is referring here to the examples of compensation awards 
given on our services website. But when deciding how much compensation to award for 
distress and upset, our approach is to consider the specific circumstances of the complaint 
and the particular impact an error had on the consumer. 
In this case, Mr R had received a cancer diagnosis and was undergoing treatment. That 
would of course be very distressing in and of itself, so it wouldnt be fair to ask Lifesearch to 
compensate Mr R for that distress. But Lifesearch did cause Mr R further upset at this 
already very difficult time, because its error had led Mr R to think he had life, critical illness 
and income protection cover. And Mr R was very upset to discover this wasnt in fact the 
case. But I think the £300 Lifesearch has already offered Mr R is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress it was specifically responsible for causing him. So Im not 
asking it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. However, Im aware Lifesearch 
Partners Limited has itself offered Mr R £300 compensation for the distress it caused him, so 
it should pay this to Mr R if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman