DRN-3241029
The complaint
Mr H complained that Santander UK plc didnt provide information which a court abroad had 
ordered.
What happened
In 2018, Mr H found out that in 2009, his then wife had transferred £9,000 from their joint 
account to her personal account. He said this had been money hed inherited from his 
mother.
Mr H contacted Santander. On 12 February 2018, one of its specialist investigation  teams 
wrote to him, confirming that on 26 October 2009, £9,000 had been transferred to an 
account in his ex-wifes name. The recipient account details were provided and the letter 
said If you should have any further questions in relation to this matter please dont hesitate 
to contact us.  
Mr H used this in a claim to a court abroad, where his ex-wife was then living. Mr H said that 
in June 2019, the court abroad asked Santander to confirm the transaction directly to the 
court. He said Santander did so, but gave the wrong IBAN number (an international banking 
identifier).
On 14 November 2019, the court abroad issued an order, asking Santander UK:
- who had paid in £10,000 to the account on 26 October 2009 and for what purpose;
- who had withdrawn £9,000 the same day, and to which account was the money 
transferred; and 
- If the money had been transferred into an account in the sole name of Mr Hs ex-wife, 
confirmation of the date of the transfer.
Its not clear what happened next, but Santander didnt reply to the court.
On 4 November 2020, Santander wrote to Mr H, saying it couldnt provide the information 
which had been archived. Mr H asked why Santander hadnt dealt with the court order for 12 
months, and why had it now replied to him and not to the court. 
Mr H said that Santander then told him that the court order hadnt shown a reply address. Mr 
H complained, saying that the court address was on the first page. 
Santander wrote to Mr H in December 2020, saying that:
- the order wasnt enforceable in the UK until the processes prescribed by EU 
regulations for the mutual recognition and enforcement of foreign orders have been 
followed;
- in any event, the order required the defendant, Mr Hs ex-wife, to reply, not 
Santander; and 
- it no longer had the information requested by the order.
 
Mr H didnt receive this letter, and went to a branch to chase for a reply in January 2021. 
Santander sent hm a copy of the December 2020 letter in February 2021.
In its final response to Mr Hs complaint, Santander said it hadnt received the court order 
until 30 October 2020, and that it had then replied in its 4 November letter. Santander 
repeated what it had said in the December letter about the court order not being enforceable, 
that it was for the defendant to answer, and that Santander no longer held the information.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that what he wanted as an 
outcome was for Santander to provide the information the court had ordered.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said Santander had said the EU court 
order wasnt enforceable in the UK, but she hadnt looked into this because she thought that 
if Santander had had the information, Mr H could have requested it himself and supplied it to 
the court abroad. The investigator said she was satisfied that the main reason Santander 
hadnt provided the information was the time that had elapsed since the transaction. She 
said that Santander currently only had information going back to 30 December 2011, so she 
couldnt recommend that it should do more. 
Mr H didnt agree. He pointed out that:
- no court would just accept paperwork which a complainant put forward without 
backup from the bank;
- Santander had provided the information to the court  but giving the wrong IBAN 
number, which had been spotted by the defence in court, which was why the court 
order had been made for Santander to provide the information;
- The court order had contained the address for a reply, and it fully complied with EU 
legislation;
- Mr H agreed that Santanders courts division probably hadnt received the court order 
until November 2020. But he said it had arrived with Santanders investigation team 
in the UK in November 2019;
- The information had been available in 2018, and copies of the correspondence 
should have been added to Mr Hs account. So why was it no longer available? Mr H 
said that Santander had failed miserably to keep a proper and cohesive trail of the 
actions taken and information supplied.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is a quick and informal alternative to the legal process in terms of disputes with 
financial businesses, and so its not for us to comment on the court action here, or the legal 
process that Mr H has referred to. Its clear that he is already pursuing that aspect of things 
legally and its not for this service to become involved with that.
Instead, what I have considered is the service that Santander has provided Mr H as one of 
its customers in terms dealing with this situation.
Timescales
I have no evidence about what happened in the year gap between the 14 November 2019 
date of the court order, and when there started to be correspondence about the court order in November 2020. But this service often faces situations where evidence is missing or 
incomplete, and when that happens I take my decision on what I think is more likely to have 
happened, in all the circumstances of the case.
Looking at the court order itself, I can see it has a Received date stamp from the 
Santander UK mailroom named on the order, on 30 October 2020, and another stamp from 
another Santander mailroom on 3 November 2020. This ties in with what Santander said in 
its final response  that it only received the order with its English translation on 30 October 
2020.
Ive considered whether this is likely, and whether its likely that the years delay happened 
elsewhere. First, I can see that the address on the court order, although addressed to the 
correct postal address, doesnt include UK. I consider its likely that this may have caused 
delay. Some time would also have been taken up by the court order being translated into 
English. I dont know where that would have been done, but Santanders evidence is that it 
received it with the translation. So its likely the translation would have been done abroad, 
which would also have taken an unknown length of time. 
Ive also borne in mind that Ive seen no evidence that Mr H chased Santander for a 
response to the court order in the year between November 2019 and November 2020. A 
year is a long time, even in the circumstances of the covid pandemic starting in early 2020, 
so I think its likely Mr H would have chased Santander if he knew the court had sent it out 
significantly before late 2020.
Taking these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Santander didnt 
receive the court order until 30 October 2020, and that it wasnt responsible for the years 
delay since the date on the court order.
Customer service after Santander received the court order
In late 2020, Santander gave Mr H a number of different reasons for not providing the 
information:
- that the order wasnt enforceable in the UK;
- that it was for the defendant to answer not Santander;
- that there was no covering letter with the order; and
- that the information had been archived. 
 
It wasnt helpful, and wouldnt have inspired confidence, to give such a range of reasons. 
This was especially so when, for instance, the order is clearly addressed to Santander not to 
the defendant. 
As Ive set out above, its not for this service to determine whether or not there was any legal 
obligation for Santander to respond to the order. But looked at just in practical terms, its 
correct that banks dont have to keep records indefinitely. So its unlikely that by November 
2019 Santander would still have had the detailed technical records of the 2009 online 
transactions in question. In February 2018 it had provided Mr H with basics of the disputed 
£9,000 transaction  the amount, the account name (Mr Hs ex-wife) and account number to 
which it was transferred. So this information might still have been available by November 
2019. But, for whatever reason, that information hadnt sufficed for the court abroad when it 
was first sent, so its unlikely that this would have been what Mr H would have needed in 
November 2019.
So  looking purely at customer service and not at the legalities of the court order - I 
consider its most likely that Santander only received the court order on 30 October 2020, 
and wasnt responsible for the long delay. Certainly there were some aspects of Santanders customer service, such as conflicting reasons for not providing the information, which would 
have been frustrating. But these arent matters for which this service would compensate Mr 
H, where I cant fairly say that they have caused an impact that warrants a financial award. 
Ultimately what Mr H seems to want here is for Santander to provide the information in line 
with the court order. But that is a matter thats better addressed by the legal proceedings Mr 
H has told us about. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman