DRN-2407672
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and then closed her bank account. And 
wont return money she says belongs to her. 
What happened
Miss B had a current account with HSBC. In February 2020, a payment of just over £8,000 
was made into her account. On the same day, Miss B moved the money out of her account 
by making several transfers to another account she held with a different bank.
HSBC took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how Miss B was operating 
her account. And blocked her account whilst it did that. Following this, HSBC received a 
notification from another bank saying their customer had been the victim of fraud  in short 
money had been transferred from their customers account to Miss Bs without their 
authorisation. HSBC asked Miss Bs other bank to return the money Miss B had transferred, 
so that it could return it to the remitting bank.
After initially having trouble getting in touch with Miss B, to speak to her about the credit, she 
told HSBC that she wasnt expecting the payment and didnt know anything about it. 
HSBC completed its review in June 2020 and decided to close Miss Bs account. Miss B 
complained to the bank. She said it had taken too long to review her account, she wasnt 
able to access her wages, which had been paid into her account and she wants the money 
which was returned from her other bank account to HSBC.
HSBC accepted it should have provided Miss B with better service and offered her £300 
compensation. Unhappy with this response, Miss B brought her complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into things.
The investigator said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Miss Bs account 
and hadnt returned the funds to Miss B  she said Miss B hadnt been able to show she was 
entitled to the money. The investigator said HSBC should have done things quicker and 
allowed Miss B access to her wages sooner. But she thought the banks offer was fair. And 
didnt ask the bank to do anything more. 
Miss B didnt accept the investigators view. She said the credit paid into her account in 
February 2020, was her student loan. So, she wants HSBC to give her back the money sent 
back by her other bank, which was just under £2,000. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied first of all that the payment of just over £8,000 
paid into Miss Bs account was fraudulent  in the sense that the holder of the account from 
which it was made either didnt authorise it or was tricked into making the payment. Their 
own bank wouldve investigated the payment before reaching that conclusion and contacting 
HSBC. Of course, that in itself doesnt mean Miss B was involved or knew about the 
payment. It is possible to make payments to someones bank account with just the sort code 
and account number. But having looked at all the evidence here, I think thats unlikely.
Miss B told HSBC she doesnt know anything about the money paid into her account in 
February 2020. Shes also told the investigator that the money was her student loan and 
should be returned to her. Ive thought carefully about what shes said. And Ive looked at the 
activity on her account. Having done so, I can see that Miss B had already spent her student 
loan, before the £8,000 payment credited her account. 
I can also see that Miss B immediately transferred the money out of her account to another 
account she held with a different bank, which I consider significant, considering she told the 
bank and the investigator, she didnt know anything about the payment. So, despite what 
Miss B has told us and the bank, I think it more likely than not she knew rather more about 
the payment than shes told the bank or this service. And Im not going to ask HSBC to 
return the funds to Miss B because based on the evidence, shes not entitled to the money. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Bs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
HSBC closed Miss Bs account with immediate notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns the bank had about how Miss B was operating her account. So, Im 
satisfied HSBC treated Miss B fairly in reaching its decision to close the account.
HSBC accepts it shouldve provided Miss B with better service  it should have allowed 
Miss B access to her wages and took too long to complete its review, which meant Miss Bs 
account was blocked for longer than it should have been. So, I can see why Miss B was 
upset. And, Im satisfied she suffered unnecessary upset because of HSBC delays. The 
bank has accepted it should have dealt with things better. It apologised and offered 
Miss B £300 compensation. I know Miss B wont agree, but I think HSBC has done enough 
to put things right. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Miss B when HSBC blocked and closed 
her account. And didnt release funds to her. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my 
decision. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont believe HSBC acted unreasonably or 
treated Miss B unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman