DRN-3241436
The complaint
Miss D and Mr O have complained about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) dealt with their claim.
What happened
Miss D and Mr O had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre. 
They travelled abroad on holiday on 14 March 2020 and were due to return on 28 March 
2020. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they had to cut their trip short and returned home 
on 20 March 2020. 
Miss D submitted a claim to Mapfre for their unused and additional costs. Miss D says she 
submitted her documents a number of times but Mapfre kept asking her to provide them 
again. So she complained and referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Mapfre had unreasonably delayed 
in dealing with the claim. Mapfre offered £150 compensation for delays which our 
investigator thought was reasonable. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to 
request evidence of additional costs such as taxi fares.
Miss D and Mr O disagreed that £150 was sufficient compensation.  
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The investigator has set out a detailed account of what happened in his view and so I wont 
repeat all the facts again. Instead, I will summarise the key points.
The policy says Mapfre can request documents to deal with the claim. This would include 
invoices and receipts. Miss D says she provided everything Mapfre had asked for but there 
was a delay in Mapfre receiving the documents as its offices were closed during the 
pandemic. And any post which was sent wasnt being opened straight away. Mapfre made 
Miss D aware of this in May 2020 and told her she could email documents instead.
Ive seen several emails from Miss D confirming she had already posted her documents. 
Mapfre reiterated that Miss D could email her documents and also asked her to email her 
policy certificate as it wasnt able to locate it. Miss D sent her policy number to Mapfre and in 
August 2020, re-sent her documents by email. Mapfre replied to ask for further information 
about taxi fares amongst other things. Miss D asked for an update in mid-August and in 
September 2020, she made a formal complaint. 
In October 2020, Mapfre asked Miss D for further details including her bank account details. 
In November, it said it wasnt able to respond to the complaint in time and referred Miss D to 
this Service. 
In January 2021, Mapfre acknowledged receipt of the documents Miss D had posted but 
said it didnt have taxi receipts and asked for these to validate the claim. It also asked Miss D 
for her bank details. 
During our investigation, Mapfre offered Miss D £150 compensation for the delays in dealing 
with the claim. And it confirmed it needed Miss Ds bank details to partially pay the claim 
based on the documents it had. Miss D doesnt think £150 compensation is sufficient. And 
she explained she hadnt been able to obtain taxi receipts from the driver abroad due to a 
language barrier.
Based on what Ive set out above, I think £150 compensation is appropriate taking into 
consideration that Mapfre explained its offices were closed due to the pandemic and so any 
documents posted to its office, wouldnt be opened straight away. But it did explain 
documents could be emailed. So I think it tried to mitigate the impact of its office closure by 
offering an alternative. In addition, it didnt respond to the complaint within 8 weeks but did 
refer Miss D to our service. So Miss D has been able to have her complaint investigated.
In relation to the claim, Mapfre has indicated that it needs receipts for the taxi fares being 
claimed. I dont think this is an unreasonable request. I appreciate Miss D says she doesnt 
have the receipts. But Mapfre does not have to pay a claim without reasonable evidence of 
costs. So if Miss D doesnt have receipts for the taxi fares, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Mapfre to refuse to pay those costs. It has said it will pay other elements of the claim and 
has asked Miss D to provide her bank details to enable it to do this. I think that is 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I agree that Mapfre delayed in dealing with the claim but I 
think its offer of £150 compensation is reasonable.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman