DRN-3465139
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited and its agents provided poor 
service and caused delays after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S told us he had huge problems initially getting through to Haven to report an accident in 
which his car was damaged. He was able to speak to an advisor on Friday 23 July 2021, but 
no-one contacted him after that as promised, so the following week he had to call Haven 
again. He told us he had more difficulty getting through to it and that he didnt get a 
replacement car until a week after hed reported the accident. As Mr S is self-employed and 
needs a car in order to work, he said that had caused him financial loss.
The car was sent to a non-dealership garage for repair through Havens agent (firm W) and 
was returned to him in September 2021. He says it was in a worse condition than before, 
and soon afterwards, the steering (which had been repaired) failed on a motorway. Havens 
garage (garage P) inspected it and said it should go to a dealership garage (garage B) for 
assessment. Haven paid for the rectification work garage B said was needed on the steering 
in October 2021. As Mr S said the car still didnt drive properly, firm W then instructed an 
independent assessor, who couldnt find anything wrong with it. 
Haven said it didnt think it had caused any undue delays in dealing with the claim. It 
apologised for the car having to go back for rectification, but it didnt agree with Mr S that it 
should pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience. One of our investigators then 
reviewed Mr Ss complaint. He thought the delay in instructing a repairer was one working 
day. He didnt think there was any basis for Haven to have to pay Mr S for loss of earnings. 
The investigator thought Haven had ensured the poor repair was put right. And he noted that 
Mr S hadnt provided any evidence of further problems with the car.
 
Mr S queried why the investigator thought it was appropriate for the car to be returned to him 
in a dangerous condition. He said Haven hadnt assisted him at all. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss initial complaint
I havent seen anything on Havens business file (or any evidence from Mr S) to show that 
he complained to it about the trouble he had in reporting the claim initially. It seems he got 
through to its out of hours service on the evening of 22 July 2021 and spoke to Havens 
advisor the next day, when he agreed to the car being sent to a non-dealership garage. 
 
Haven didnt contact Mr S on Monday 26 July 2021 (the next working day) with an update, 
but he spoke to an advisor the following day. Havens advisor told him Haven had asked firm 
W to instruct a garage to deal with the repairs. Later that day, it emerged that the first 
instruction had been sent elsewhere in error - but the repair work was assigned to garage P 
the same day. Mr S then argued about the type of courtesy car he wanted. He was only 
entitled to a standard car under the policy  and the business file shows that he had a 
replacement car by Wednesday 28 July 2021. 
It seems Mr S thought the repairs should be allocated to a garage and a courtesy car 
provided when he first spoke to Haven, or by the next working day at the latest. Whilst that 
situation would have been ideal for him, Haven was dealing with numerous other claims. It  
isnt always possible for an insurer to act immediately, and its not unusual for a replacement 
car not to be provided straight away. I think the issue is whether Haven acted within a 
reasonable time. I dont think there was undue delay in it instructing firm W - or in firm W 
contacting garage P and sorting out a replacement car for Mr S. Mr S told us he was away 
on holiday on Monday 26 July 2021, so he had no loss of earnings that day. And he wouldnt 
have been able to take a courtesy car locally, had one been made available then.
Repairs
I dont think it was acceptable at all for garage P not to complete the repairs to a good 
standard. I can see why Mr S was so upset by that, especially as the fault with the steering 
could have had very serious consequences. Fortunately, it didnt, and were only able to deal 
with what actually happened, not what might have done. 
Haven accepted that garage P had provided poor service and later apologised for that. I 
think it was reasonable for Haven to say the car should be returned to garage P for 
rectification. Its standard industry practice for garages to be given the chance to put matters 
right. As garage P said it wasnt able to do so, I think Haven acted reasonably in then 
authorising garage B to inspect the car and to carry out any necessary work. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Haven to rely on the quality of the work carried out by a 
dealership garage. I also think it was reasonable for it to assume that garage B would have 
pointed out any additional faults it noted, either when using its diagnostic tools or when 
completing the repairs and signing them off in October 2021.
As Mr B still thought there were issues with the car, I think Haven acted reasonably at that 
point by asking an independent engineer to assess it - and by relying on his opinion. Mr S 
says another dealership garage found further faults with the car, but he hasnt provided 
evidence of those findings. If Mr S had problems getting a report from that garage, he could 
have asked an independent engineer to assess whether there were any remaining accident 
or repair-related faults. 
Our investigator advised Mr S of that option, as wed expect Haven to consider evidence 
from an independent engineer. Unless it could reasonably be discounted, wed expect it to 
pay for the engineers report and for any further accident or repair-related repairs. But Mr S 
hasnt provided any independent evidence of further issues with the car. Given the 
conclusions reached by garage B and by Havens independent assessor, I think it was 
reasonable for Haven to decide that it didnt need to take any further action. 
In summary
I can only base my opinion on the available evidence. From what Ive seen, Haven acted 
reasonably and without undue delay in dealing with Mr Ss claim initially. I think the evidence 
shows it had a sound basis to conclude in October 2021 that it had dealt with the faults caused by the accident and by garage Ps poor repairs. Despite that, it instructed an 
independent engineer. In the absence of any evidence from Mr S that garage B and the 
engineer were both wrong, I dont think Haven could be expected to do anything further. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think Haven did anything 
substantially wrong, Im not able to uphold his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman