DRN-1542608
The complaint
Mr L complained that Saga Services Limited wouldnt refund premiums under his motorcycle 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a policy with Saga in May 2018. He told Saga that he had a non-fault accident 
claim from March 2018 when he was with his previous insurer. However Saga discovered 
that the claim had not been settled but remained open. This meant that it was listed on the 
insurance claims database as a fault claim in the meantime. Because of this Saga increased 
Mr Ls premium by £227.23 for that year.
He was unhappy about this. But he said that Saga told him several times that once he 
provided proof that the claim had been settled as non-fault, they would amend the claim 
information and refund him the increased premium amount. And so on that basis, he 
renewed his policy with them in May 2019.
In about September 2019 his previous insurer did settle the claim as non-fault. After Mr L 
sent Saga proof of that, they amended his renewed policy to show the claim as non-fault. 
But they said they couldnt amend the previous years policy because it had to reflect the 
true factual position at that time, which was that the claim remained open and so was a fault 
claim. They also wouldnt refund the premium increase as they said the premium was correct 
based on the claims status in that policy year.
Mr L felt that they had changed their minds, and this was unfair. In the final response letter, 
Saga apologised for their agent in September 2019 having given him the incorrect 
information that they would refund his premiums. But they said that they had given him the 
correct information in January 2019. They had told him then that they could only recalculate 
the previous years policy premium and make the refund if the claim was settled as not his 
fault before that years policy expired. As it wasnt, they couldnt change that previous years 
policy information or refund the increased premium. They suggested that he recover the 
increased premium amount from the third-partys insurers as an uninsured loss. They also 
said that his no claims discount (NCD) wasnt adversely affected.
  
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Saga 
hadnt acted fairly or reasonably and so they should refund the increased premium.
Saga didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saga said that the premium they charged in 2018 was correct given that there was an open 
fault claim at the time. Theyve sent us the file records on the case, but I do not find them 
clear as to who they told what or when. Saga agree that they gave Mr L mixed information. 
They also accept that they did wrongly advise him that they would be able to refund the 
policy premium for the previous year. They apologised for this and said that theyd given 
feedback to their agent about that. 
But although they said they gave that wrong advice in September 2019, that was after the 
policy renewal date. They accept that Mr L also phoned them in April 2019, before the policy 
renewal date, and they then reconfirmed that they would be able to refund the premium if the 
claim was settled as non-fault. But their records dont show that they warned him in the April 
call that any premium refund was dependent on the claim being settled as non-fault before 
the imminent policy renewal date. And so I think they gave him incorrect information then 
too, and that was the basis on which renewed the policy. He did so on the reasonable 
expectation, given what Saga had told him, that they would refund the previous years 
premium increase. And so I think that if they had given him the correct information then, he 
wouldnt have renewed his policy with them but would more likely have chosen an alternative 
insurer.
Putting things right
I recognise that Saga cant make any amendment to the previous years policy information, 
because it was factually correct about the claims status at that time. But I think their 
communication with Mr L was poor and contradictory and I dont think that this was fair or 
reasonable. And so I think that they should pay him the sum of £227.23 plus interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Saga Services Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr L £227.23 plus interest at 8% a year simple from the date he paid Saga that 
until the date Saga refund it to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
If Saga consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from interest, they should tell Mr L how much they have taken off. They should also give Mr 
L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
