DRN-4397242
The complaint
Mr B complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans he couldnt afford to repay. Mr B says that in order 
to repay the loans he had to borrow money from other loan providers.
What happened
Mr B was granted five loans by MoneyBoat, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 06/06/2018 28/01/2019 6 £147.42
2 £1,000.00 07/02/2019 28/06/2019 5 £321.69
3 £500.00 02/07/2019 01/10/2019 4 £192.40
4 £400.00 02/10/2019 28/11/2019 6 £121.09
5 £1,000.00 02/12/2019 30/07/2020 6 £296.17
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who partly upheld it. She didnt think
MoneyBoat had done anything wrong when loan one was granted. But she upheld the rest of 
the loans. 
She could see that Mr B had encountered some problems repaying loan one and so when 
he returned for loan two  which was for twice the amount than further checks
ought to have been carried out. Had these additional checks been made, MoneyBoat 
wouldve likely discovered Mr B had other outstanding payday loans and betting 
transactions.
Finally, by the time of loan five she thought the lending was now harmful for Mr B and so the
lending was unsustainable for him at this point in time.
MoneyBoat didnt fully agree with the outcome. It explained that loan one was repaid late but
this was due to an issue with Mr Bs card rather than signs he was having difficulties, and
then the loans decreased in value. So MoneyBoat didnt think it should put things right for
loans two, three and four. But it did accept loan five may not have been sustainable for Mr B.
The adjudicator made some further enquires with MoneyBoat about the missed payment for
loan one. But even then, her view about the complaint didnt change.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part as 
the adjudicator recommended but I provided some further reasoning. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event, no later than 18 October 2023. 
Mr B confirmed he had received the provisional decision, agreed with the proposed outcome 
and he had nothing further to submit. 
MoneyBoat also confirmed it had received the provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator though it had
reached this point in the lending relationship by loan five.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings that she made, which included not
upholding loan one and MoneyBoat has now accepted that loan five ought to not have been
granted either. In my view these loans are no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a
finding about them. But I have included, what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things
right for Mr B for loan five at the end of the decision.
Loans 2  4
The adjudicator upheld this loan due to problems repaying loan one  Mr B was in effect a
month late with settling the loan. And in some situations that could be solely a sign that the
loan wasnt actually affordable. MoneyBoat, in response to the adjudicator provided copy of
contact notes between itself and Mr B.
These notes show that it was the payment due in July 2018  the second one that Mr B was
due to make for loan one where there was an issue. An email was sent to Mr B from
MoneyBoat after it was alerted the bank details werent correct and it wanted Mr B to contact
it to update them.
MoneyBoat then says it made at least 10 attempts to speak to Mr B, however it wasnt until
28 August 2018 that a payment was received  but Mr B paid only around half what he
shouldve done. However, after this August 2018 payment Mr B then made his payments as
expected.
Ive thought about this, and the missed payment is I think something MoneyBoat needed to
consider. I accept it was early on in the lending relationship, but when Mr B did then make
contact he didnt fully make up his repayment  which considering his declared income and
expenditure ought to have alerted MoneyBoat that maybe there was something else going
on.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr B for details of his income, which he
declared as being the same as when loan one was advanced - £3,700 per month.
MoneyBoat says the income figure was checked through a third-party report but a copy of
this report hasnt been provided.
Mr B also declared monthly outgoings of £1,200. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used
information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) and from the
Common Finance Statement to adjust the declared expenditure Mr B had provided. As a
result, of this check, Mr Bs monthly expenditure was increased by £760.
Just from the income and expenditure checks, MoneyBoat wouldve been confident that
Mr B wouldve likely been able to afford his loan.
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that
although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do
one, let alone one to a specific standard.
The credit results showed that there were 10 defaults on Mr Bs credit file but the majority of
them had been recorded in 2016 into the start of 2017. Mr B must have had financial
difficulties at this time due to the number of defaults which were recorded. At least two of the
defaults were still being repaid through some sort of repayment plan, while the remaining
defaults had been settled / satisfied.
So, while, Mr B had a number of defaults, these were historic in nature, and I dont think
MoneyBoat wouldve been too concerned considering their status by the time of the loanapplications. Although its worth saying that, on one of the bank accounts Mr B had some
adverse credit file data being reported around 10 months before this loan was approved 
which needed considering.
In terms of open accounts when loan two was advanced, Mr B had two current accounts,
one with an overdraft but Mr B was within its limit. There was also one credit card, again Mr
B was within his limit and there hadnt been any adverse payment information. Finally, there
was one outstanding loan, that Mr B had taken in October 2018, and he was contracted to
pay £153 per month. These payments had been made without any apparent difficulty.
However, there is one account that was being marked as being in delinquency  and was
updating each month as being 6 months in arrears  although the account hadnt yet
defaulted. Mr B ought to have been paying £186 per month towards this loan but the
payment history suggests that wasnt happening. But the account had been in delinquency
for some time. Again, this ought to have prompted some further concern by MoneyBoat
given the other credit file data, the issues with repaying loan one and then he quick returned
for significantly more borrowing.
So, I do think, like the adjudicator that MoneyBoat ought to have done further, more in-depth
checks before it approved loan two  and all future loans. Given firstly with what happened
with the repayment for loan one but secondly, due to the other information MoneyBoat had
to hand.
These further checks couldve been done a number of ways, it couldve asked for evidence
of Mr Bs income or it couldve asked to see copy bills or copy bank statements.
Ive been able to locate copy bank statements that were provide to the
Financial Ombudsman on another complaint, and so I think its entirely reasonable to
consider these statements in order to see what MoneyBoat may have discovered had it
made better checks.
Had better checks been made, MoneyBoat wouldve discovered that Mr B was making full
use of a revolving credit facility  which was costing him around £1,300 per month. On top of
this, the statements showed a significant amount of gambling transactions  which in the last
week of January 20219 alone was more than Mr B received in income. So further checks on
loan two wouldve showed MoneyBoat that Mr B couldnt afford his repayments.
A similar position wouldve been discovered had MoneyBoat carried out proportionate
checks for the other loans  which wouldve been similar to the ones carried out at the time
of loan two. It wouldve discovered Mr B was still spending more than his income each
month on gambling transactions and therefore it wouldve concluded that loans three and
four were also not affordable.
It therefore follows that I am intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans these loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr B and MoneyBoat have agreed with the provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from those findings here. And I still dont think MoneyBoat ought to have advanced 
loans two, three, four and five to Mr B for the same reasons that I gave in the provisional 
decision. I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for Mr B. Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan two, as Im satisfied it ought
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I am satisfied that MoneyBoat shouldnt have granted loans two, three, four or five to Mr B 
and if it hasnt already done so, it needs to do the following to put things right. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything that has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans two, three and four. The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for loan 
five means any information recorded about it is adverse, so MoneyBoat should 
remove this loan entirely from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint in part. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr B as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman