DRN-2433964
The complaint
Dr A has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc incorrectly applied a default to her credit 
card account.
What happened
Dr A says in November 2018 she was advised she needed to repay the outstanding amount 
on her credit card, so she contacted Sainsburys to find out how much she had to repay. She 
says she was told in order to settle the remaining balance she needed to pay £4,064.12. So, 
she did this and was under the impression there was nothing remaining on her credit card. 
In January 2020 Dr A applied for loan, but unfortunately she was unsuccessful. Because of 
this she checked her credit file and saw that Sainsburys had applied a default and there was 
an outstanding balance of £78 on her credit card.
On 15 January 2020 Dr A says she contacted Sainsburys and was told that the £78 was a 
result of charges and interest. She says she was offered a refund of £78 and was told the 
default would be removed from her account. But in March 2020 the default was still showing 
on her credit file. Sainsburys apologised to Dr A, removed the default and offered £50 
compensation. Dr A remained unhappy, so she raised a formal complaint. 
Sainsburys looked into Dr As complaint and explained that although Dr A had repaid the 
balance on the account, trailing interest was applied in December 2018 and this resulted in 
payment due on her account in January 2019. As no payment was made, charges and 
interest continued to be applied to the account. 
Sainsburys said the default shouldnt have been applied as the account balance was made 
up of charges and interest. So, it agreed to remove the default. It also recognised that the 
service it had provided wasnt of a satisfactory standard so agreed to refund all charges and 
interest applied to the account after November 2018. It also paid Dr A £50 compensation. 
Dr A remined unhappy, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
originally upheld the complaint, but after further investigation she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. To summarise, she said she was pleased to see the default had been removed and 
chares and interest which were applied after 26 November 2018 had been refunded. But she 
explained that the fees and interest were charged correctly as interest accrued on the 
balance up to the point of payment in November 2018 and was charged to the account in the 
next statement. She went on to explain that Sainsburys made Dr A aware that the fees were 
owed as they issued statements and a pre-default letter to show payments were due. So, 
while the fees and charges from November 2018 were refunded, she felt they were charged 
correctly. As such the missed payment entries reflect accurately what happened on the 
account.
Dr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said she doesnt recall receiving 
correspondence on the outstanding balance and wasnt aware that charges and interest 
were accruing. She said it was clear from her actions she intended to repay the debt in full. 
So, she asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Missed Payments 
I appreciate Dr A has said she asked Sainsburys to confirm the outstanding balance on the 
account and then paid the exact amount Sainsburys said she owed, so she doesnt see how 
the fees and interested accrued. Having reviewed the file I can see that Sainsburys 
continued to send statements and a pre-default letter to show payments were due. I have 
checked Sainsburys contact notes and I am satisfied these letters were sent. I have 
reviewed the address on the statements and pre-default letter, and I am satisfied it matches 
the address we hold on file for Dr A. Dr A says she doesnt recall receiving these letters, and 
while I dont dispute her recollection of events, I am satisfied Sainsburys sent them and so I 
cant hold it responsible for errors made by the postal service.
In any event I can also see that Dr A opened the account in August 2017. Having reviewed 
the statements Dr A received when she was using the account from August 2017 to 
November 2018 the statements listed what interest was due the following month (trailing 
interest). So, with that in mind, I think its reasonable to suggest Dr A was aware how the 
fees and interests were applied to the account. And while the balance was cleared on Dr As 
account, it is was her duty to ensure no trailing interest and fees had accumulated.
Having reviewed the statements, I am satisfied the fees were charged correctly. Interest 
accrued on the balance up until Dr A paid the final balance in November 2018 and was 
charged to the account the following month.  Dr A didnt pay the remaining further interest 
and fees that were applied so these continued to accumulate. However, I can see that 
Sainsburys has now refunded all fees and interest from November 2018 onwards as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Given the above, Im satisfied the charges and interest were applied correctly and Dr A was - 
or ought to have known that interest was accruing. So, I cant fairly ask Sainsburys to 
remove the missed payments from Dr As credit file. I say this because Sainsburys has a 
duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies.
The default 
Sainsburys has said the default shouldnt have been applied to Dr As account, as the 
account balance was made up of charges and interest. I am pleased to see the default has 
been removed form Dr As account and that Sainsburys have compensated Dr A £50 the 
trouble and upset it caused. I feel the compensation Sainsbury offered was fair and 
reasonable. I say this because, while I accept there was a delay in removing the default, 
having reviewed further information, I dont think this entry alone affected Dr A obtaining 
credit. So, I am satisfied the award made by Sainsburys reflects the trouble and upset Dr A 
experienced from its error. With this is mind, I wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything 
further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman