DRN-3285378
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) following the return of his car.
What happened
On 29 June 2016, Mr G was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £500, and the agreement was for £22,475.70, with 
48 monthly payments of £393.96, and a final optional payment of £9,996.38 if Mr G wanted 
to purchase the car. The agreement permitted 10,000 miles a year, with any excess mileage 
being charged at 7.2 pence a mile.
On 2 September 2019, Mr G contacted VWFS and asked to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement. The car was collected on 4 November 2019 and VWFS charged Mr G £508.36 
for exceeding the allowed mileage, and £461.26 for damage to the car that fell outside of 
reasonable wear and tear.
Mr G complained to VWFS about the delay in the car being collected and the charges. 
VWFS acknowledged the delay in collecting the car, which caused arrears to be registered 
against Mr Gs account in error. VWFS offered Mr G £160 compensation for this. They also 
removed the arrears from Mr Gs credit file and offered to cover his car insurance premiums 
(up to £100) upon receipt of proof of the premiums hed paid.
Mr G wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. While the complaint was being investigated, VWFS also agreed to waive the 
excess mileage charges.
Our investigator said that, under the agreement Mr G signed, VWFS are entitled to charge 
for damage to the car that falls outside of fair wear and tear. He said that the fair wear and 
tear guidelines are issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
and, from what hed seen, the damage to the car fell outside of these guidelines. So, the 
investigator thought VWFS had acted fairly by charging Mr G for the damage. 
The investigator also thought that, even though Mr G said that some of the damage to the 
car occurred while he was waiting for VWFS to collect it, because the car was in Mr Gs 
possession at the time, he remained responsible for the damage. So, he said that VWFS 
didnt need to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that VWFS didnt appreciate the effect that 
recording adverse information on his credit file had on him, as hes subject to regular credit 
checks because of his employment. But Mr G acknowledged that the adverse information is 
no longer recorded against him.
Mr G was also unhappy with the damage charges, especially those relating to the tyre. Hes 
said that, because the inspector drove away with the car, he felt the tyre mustve been in a 
roadworthy condition. And he felt that a fair resolution would be for VWFS to waive all the 
damage charges.
Because Mr G didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr G was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr G signed on 29 June 2016. This clearly says that Mr G 
was required to keep the vehicle in good repair and condition, commensurate with its age 
and mileage. It also said that Mr G would be responsible for any damage to or deterioration 
of the Vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the vehicle. So, Im satisfied that Mr G wouldve been reasonably aware of his 
obligations under the agreement.
Ive also seen inspection report dated 4 November 2019, when the car was collected from 
Mr G. This report details scratches to the front bumper, a dent to the right-hand front wing, 
and a gouge the left-hand rear tyre. And there is photographic evidence that clearly shows 
this damage. Ive reviewed the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear and, for the same 
reasons the investigator detailed in his view, Im satisfied that the damage falls outside of 
these guidelines.
While the gouge in the tyre falls outside of BVRLA guidelines, its clear from the photographs 
that the damage is mainly to detailing that stands proud of the tyre, and theres limited 
damage to the tyre wall itself. Mr G has said that the tyre mustve been road worthy, 
because the inspector drove the car away. While I dont dispute this was the case, there was 
still damage to the tyre that fell outside of the BVRLA guidelines. So, Im satisfied that VWFS 
acted reasonably by charging Mr G for the damage to the car. And I wont be asking them to 
reduce or waive the damage charges.
It's not disputed that there was a delay in VWFS collecting the car. And, during this delay, 
VWFS classed the payments that wouldve normally fallen due under the agreement as 
arrears. But Ive seen that VWFS apologised for this, offered Mr G £100 for the delays, and 
an additional £60 for any inconvenience caused by what was reported on Mr Gs credit file.
The first payment that was missed was the payment that wouldve been due on 29 
September 2019. So, any arrears wouldve been recorded from October 2019 onwards. And 
VWFS corrected Mr Gs credit file in early December 2019. So, any incorrect information on 
Mr Gs credit file was present for a period of no more than 10 weeks.
Mr G has said that, because of his employment, he could be subject to credit checks. And 
any adverse information may have an impact on him. And, from what Mr G has declared, I 
dont doubt that this was the case.However, Ive not seen anything to show me that a credit check was carried out in this 10-
week period and, if one was, that this had any adverse impact on Mr G. And, in his 
complaints to VWFS in September and November 2019, Mr G didnt raise any issue of him 
being impacted by VWFS recording arrears in error. Whats more, I havent seen anything to 
show me that VWFS didnt remove the adverse information from Mr Gs credit file in early 
December 2019, or that they recorded incorrect information about his account after that 
date. Because of this, Im satisfied that any impact on Mr G as a result of this was limited.
Given the above, Im satisfied VWFSs apology and offer of £160 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking them to increase this. If this hasnt 
already been paid to Mr G, its now for him to decide whether to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman