DRN-3185822
The complaint
Miss C complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim for cutting short 
her holiday under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Miss C held an annual multi-trip insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy was
purchased in February 2020.
Miss C travelled to a country which Ill call J on 13 March 2020. She was due to remain
there until 21 March 2020. However, on 14 March 2020, Miss C was told that her onward
tour booking had been cancelled and that all flights in and out of J would be stopped from 16
March 2020 due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Miss C says she tried to contact both her airline and Great Lakes, before booking a new
flight with a different airline to return to the UK on 16 March 2020. Miss C made a claim
under her policy with Great Lakes for £1,121.06, the cost of her new flight.
Great Lakes paid Miss C £500 under the Catastrophe section of her policy. Miss C was left
with a shortfall of the monies shed claimed for and complained to Great Lakes. Great Lakes
said the circumstances she found herself in werent covered under the terms and conditions
of her policy, but that it had paid her £500 as a gesture of goodwill.
As Miss C remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said, although Miss Cs claim wasnt
covered under the terms and conditions of her policy, he thought it would be fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to re-assess her claim regardless. This is because he said Miss
C wouldnt have had any cover under her policy if shed remained abroad, but also had no
cover if she cut her trip short and he didnt think this was clear from Miss Cs policy
documentation.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Miss Cs complaint was referred 
to me. I made my provisional decision about the complaint in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand the situation which Miss C found herself in was completely unprecedented and
outside of her control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers
are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for
a policy. Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Miss C are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Miss Cs policy, at page 15 under the heading Cutting Short Your Trip provides for Great
Lakes to pay certain costs if a policyholders trip is cut short due to one of the following
listed, insured reasons:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion
or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or
advisory capacity).
c) complications of pregnancy of you or a travelling companion.
d) you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary due to
loss or theft of your passport, or that of a travelling companion.
e) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable,
due to fire, lightening, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees,
riot or civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police
requesting your presence following a burglary or attempted burglary.
Miss Cs trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons. This means her claim isnt
covered under the Cutting Short Your Trip section of her policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Miss Cs insurance policy, but I dont think she
held any cover that would pay a benefit in the circumstances she found herself in. Section
16 Catastrophe of Miss Cs policy provides for a benefit of up to £500 to be paid to allow a
policyholder to continue with their holiday if their accommodation is affected by, amongst
other things, an infectious disease. Miss C didnt continue with her holiday  she returned
home  but Great Lakes has paid her £500 as a gesture of goodwill under this section of
cover, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss C has referred to Section 3 of her policy providing cover for repatriation expenses.
However, this only applies in the event of the policyholder suffering a medical emergency
which necessitates repatriation while abroad, which isnt what happened here.
Our investigator pointed out that Miss Cs policy wouldnt have provided cover if shed
remained abroad against Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advice and he thought this left Miss C in an
unfair position.
The FCDO wasnt advising against travel to J at the date of Miss Cs departure, and the
FCDO didnt advise all British travellers abroad to return to the UK until 23 March 2020
(which was after Miss C was due to return to the UK).
If I accept that Miss Cs policy may not have provided cover if she had remained abroad after
16 March 2020, there may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to
claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for remaining abroad when FCDO advice
changed, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a
strict application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to do so here.
This is because Miss Cs policy, at page 17, says:What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2 
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country
Miss Cs trip was cut short because the government in J announced that commercial flights
in and out of the country would be stopped and all land and sea borders would be closed.
So, not only is the reason why Miss Cs trip was cut short not covered as a listed, insured
event under her policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the
circumstances of her claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C. I understand she, effectively, had no choice but to leave J
when she did. But I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and conditions of the
policy she holds with Great Lakes, and I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining her claim.
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Miss C responded expressing her dissatisfaction but didnt make any comment on the 
reasoning or findings set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence nor made any additional submissions about 
the merits of this complaint, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman