DRN-3208789
The complaint
Mr Ws complained about advice to switch his pension monies into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and to invest the transferred monies into unregulated holdings. Mr W says 
this advice was provided by a representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
(Quilter).
What happened
At the date of advice, Quilter was known as Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd 
(Positive Solutions) and so, for ease of reference, Ill simply refer to Positive Solutions 
throughout this decision.
Mr P of Regent Wealth Management (Regent) was a Registered Individual (RI) of Positive 
Solutions. Ill explain more about the term RI later in the decision, but for now its sufficient to 
say that Mr P was an agent of Positive Solutions and authorised to give advice on its behalf. 
Mr P ceased to be an RI of Positive Solutions altogether in 2011.
As I understand it, both parties accept that Mr P carried out a Fact Find with Mr W on 10 
October 2008. And then advised on the transfer of a Skandia pension plan to a Hartford 
pension plan. To be clear, that transfer advice isnt a part of the complaint Im deciding.
It was noted, amongst other things, in the Fact Find that Mr W:
Was 62 years old and had a retirement age of 75.
Had an income of £65,000.
Had a little over £250,000 in a pension plan with Skandia.
Was very concerned by a fall in value of his Skandia pension plan, and he was 
aggrieved that action hadnt been taken sooner to protect the value of his funds.
Was aiming to protect his accumulated pension assets whilst looking to maximise 
capital growth.
Had an overall risk profile of medium.
Mr W says that, as a result of additional advice he received from Mr P in October 2008, he 
switched his pension plan with Norwich Union to a SIPP with MC Trustees. Transferred 
monies were used to invest in the Curzon Capital PCC Limiteds (Curzons) Romanian 
Geared Growth Fund (the Romanian Fund) and the EEA Life Settlements Fund (the EEA 
Life Fund). These investments havent performed well.
Mr W says the advice he received from Mr P was unsuitable. Mr W initially complained to 
Mr P, and later referred his complaint to us to be considered against Positive Solutions. 
Mr W says the pension switch to MC Trustees and the investments in the Romanian Fund 
and the EEA Life Fund were effected on the advice of Mr P. Mr W says that he was a 
moderate risk investor and that the advised investments were too high risk for him, he also 
says that the pension switch was unnecessary.
Theres no suitability report or recommendation letter for the advice. But weve been 
provided with some evidence from the date of the transactions complained about. Emails Ive 
mentioned as being from Mr P below, were sent from his Regent email address and said that 
Regent was a trading style of Positive Solutions in the emails footer section.
On 13 September 2008, Mr W signed a transfer of servicing request for the Norwich Union 
pension plan on Positive Solutions headed paper. Mr P was the named adviser and the form 
asked that future correspondence be sent to Regent.
Mr P sent Norwich Union a fax from Regent on 13 October 2008, he included the transfer of 
servicing request and questions about Mr Ws Norwich Union plan. The fax explained that 
Regent was a trading style of Positive Solutions. Norwich Union replied on 18 October 2008, 
enclosing transfer out documentation with its response to the information Mr P had 
requested. Amongst other things, Norwich Union said that Mr W was invested 100% in its 
Property Fund.
Mr W then signed a Norwich Union transfer payment instruction form on 21 October 2008 for 
a transfer to MC Trustees. And Norwich Union subsequently wrote to Mr P and Mr W on 30 
October 2008, confirming the transfer had been effected.
MC Trustees emailed Mr P about the MC Trustees  [Mr Ws surname] Family SIPP on 17 
October 2008. It asked if the original documentation and correct money laundering in order 
to open an MCT SIPP was on its way. It said it was including an IVC form which needed 
completed for each client and that a letter would be needed from investors about the 
Romanian Fund. Mr P replied to confirm that the original documentation and IVC forms had 
been sent in the post that day. Mr P sent another email to MC Trustees later the same day 
and said hed have a word with the Romanian Fund directors as it had been agreed that the 
subscriptions can be lower than the minimum.
Mr P sent MC Trustees a covering note saying Mr W documents, this is date stamped as 
having been received on 27 October 2008. Weve been provided with the Transfer In Form 
MC Trustees received, this was signed by Mr W on 16 October 2008 and included the 
details of the Norwich Union plan to be transferred in.
MC Trustees also gave us a form it received for the Romanian Fund investment, this records 
£38,000 as the investment amount. Regents and Mr Ps details, along with the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) number 184591 (which was Positive Solutions FSA number), are 
set out in the Financial Adviser Authorisation section. These details are also repeated in a 
Prevention of Money Laundering Certificate page, and this follows on from a declaration to 
confirm that Mr P was an approved person in accordance with the Financial Services and 
Markets Act (FSMA) 2000 to advise on unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) 
and that hed verified the identity of Mr W.
MC Trustees emailed Mr P on 5 November 2008, it had received a little over £39,000 from 
Norwich Union and asked Mr P what should be done about the Curzon investment.
Mr P emailed Mr W on 24 November 2008 and said, amongst other things, that:
Hed managed to secure 50,000 shares in the Romanian Fund at the previous 
closing price of £1.067 each, equating to £53,350 worth of shares.
Some of the shares were for other investors but the balance of the shares, worth 
£21,073, would be taken up by Mr W.
Mr W would then have a further £17,245 available which he wanted to use to 
subscribe for further shares on the next subscription date.
Mr P emailed MC Trustees on 26 November 2008 and said that hed managed to secure 
50,000 shares in the Romanian Fund at £1.067 per share. Mr P then instructed MC Trustees 
to purchase:£20,473 worth of shares on behalf of [Mr W].
[Mr W] should have a balance of £17,845 in his SIPP after this transaction, can you 
please arrange for the purchase of more shares in the fund at the next subscription 
date.
Curzon Capital will undertake a stock transfer, once the funds have been 
transferred.
MC Trustees submitted a stock transfer form for the investment in the Romanian Fund and 
received a contract note from Curzon confirming the transfer of 19,187.44 shares in the 
Romanian Fund to Mr Ws SIPP on 8 December 2008.
MC Trustees later received a note from Mr P at Regent dated 1 June 2009, this said that:
Further to my conversation this weekregarding [Mr Ws] desire to invest £17,000 
into the EEA Life Settlements Fund.
I have enclosed an application for the form duly signed by [Mr W]; please note that 
he wishes to invest into the C class shares.
The EEA Life Fund application form is for an investment of £17,000. Regents and Mr Ps 
details, along with the FSA number 184591 are recorded in the Introducing Agent section of 
the form. This section includes a box for Agent Special Instruction into which Initial fee to 
be 4.5%, trail to be .5% has been written.
Mr P subsequently emailed MC Trustees in September 2009 to say his laptop had been 
stolen and that all the EEA documents were on the hard disk, i.e. my firms adviser 
agreement with EEA and associated paperwork, and all application forms, money laundering 
etc etc. Mr P asked for copies for compliance purposes and MC Trustees replied with a 
copy of the purchase contract note. This shows Mr Ws £17,000 EEA Life Fund investment 
and a settlement date of 3 August 2009.
Mr Ws MC Trustees SIPP statements/transaction history shows that:
About £39,000 was transferred in from Norwich Union on 4 November 2008.
About £20,500 was invested in the Romanian Fund on 27 November 2008.
£17,000 was invested in the EEA Life Fund on 17 July 2009.
Member contributions were paid into the plan in October 2010 (£358.34 net - 
subsequently grossed up to £447.93) and November 2011 (£717.60 gross). These 
monies just went into the cash account.
The remaining SIPP balance of about £750 was transferred to an I.P.M SIPP on 15 
May 2012.
As I understand it, the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund holdings were transferred in 
specie (meaning the investments themselves were moved, rather than being sold and the 
cash value being moved) to a SIPP with I.P.M in December 2010.
Positive Solutions says that Mr W brought his complaint too late to be considered by us. It 
says the complaint was raised more than six years after the event complained about and 
more than three years after Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for 
concern. Its said that:The investment in the Romanian Fund was made more than six years before the 
complaint was made.
The Romanian Fund was suspended on 29 June 2011 and investors were informed 
of the suspension at that time.
The Net Asset Value of the Fund had decreased from £0.7175 per unit in August 
2009 to £0.3925 per unit by the end of December 2010.
When these events happened, Mr W had sufficient reason to complain that the 
investment was unsuitable.
If Mr W didnt appreciate the risks the investment brought to his capital at the point of 
sale, he shouldve been aware that there was cause for concern on receipt of the 
information outlined above.
Mr Ws complaint was received by it in February 2015.
Positive Solutions has also said, amongst other things, that:
At a meeting in October 2008 Mr P completed a Fact Find with Mr W.
It doesnt have any details of Positive Solutions recommending the Romanian Fund 
and EEA Life Fund investments. It didnt authorise Mr P in relation to these 
investments, it didnt process this business and it didnt receive any commission.
It has no record of Positive Solutions giving Mr W advice on the MC Trustees SIPP.
Until he left in early 2011, Mr P was authorised to act as an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) with Positive Solutions.
Mr P was contracted to Positive Solutions as a self-employed IFA on a 'contract for 
services' basis and he was free to enter into contracts and agencies outside of his 
contract with Positive Solutions.
Mr P says that he informed Mr W that Positive Solutions didnt offer advice on 
unregulated investments.
Mr P says he only introduced Mr W to Curzon, and Curzon then dealt with Mr W 
directly in respect of the Romanian Fund.
Mr P says that, prior to investment, Mr W completed and signed certificates with 
Curzon to confirm he was a self-certified sophisticated investor.
It has no records of any agreement to provide an ongoing service to Mr W, and its 
asked us to consider the Terms of Business (ToB) Mr P provided to Mr W.
Mr W hasnt agreed that he was a self-certified sophisticated investor, or that Mr P only 
introduced him to Curzon. He says that he had no information from Positive Solutions or 
Regent to suggest investments were unregulated, and that the advice this complaint 
concerns was all part of the pension discussions and advice he was receiving at the time. As 
far as Mr W was aware, this was all done under the Positive Solutions banner.
More than one investigator was involved with reviewing Mr Ws complaint. Most recently our 
investigators found that:
Mr W had complained to Mr P by 14 October 2014 at the very latest.
Norwich Union didnt respond to the information requested from Mr P until 18 
October 2008, so the advice to transfer away from Norwich Union mustve been 
given after this.
Mr P also couldnt have advised on the Romanian Fund investment until after 18 
October 2008, as the pension switch and subsequent investment advice were 
inextricably linked. So, Mr P wouldnt have been able to give full advice until after the 
information had been received from Norwich Union.
The complaints about the switch into the MC Trustees SIPP and the investments 
made following that transfer were made in time.Mr W shouldnt have been advised to switch into the MC Trustees SIPP or to invest 
in the Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund.
Positive Solutions didnt agree with the investigator about the complaint being made in time. 
It said that advice can be provided without having all the information and prior to an 
application being completed. It noted that Mr W had signed a transfer of servicing request in 
September 2008 and contended that the initial advice was given in September 2008. 
Positive Solutions also highlighted that Mr P had refuted receiving Mr Ws complaint by 14 
October 2014, and had said hed first seen the complaint in November 2014.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review. I issued a 
provisional decision in this matter on 16 November 2021. In summary, I said that the
complaint was one we could consider, that Positive Solutions was responsible for the 
complaint and that the complaint should be upheld. 
I asked both parties to make any further submissions theyd like me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. In response to my provisional decision, Positive Solutions has said 
that:
We disagree fundamentally with the Ombudsmans provisional decision for the 
reasons already stated in our many and varied submissions over the last 6 years. 
We would ask that the Ombudsman specifically look at the alleged advice received 
after the advice (sic) left us in early 2011 and confirm that the advice received isnt 
our liability and he has taken this into account in any redress he is proposing to 
award.
And Mr Ws representative said, amongst other things, that:
It should be made clear to Positive Solutions that the notional calculation should 
begin on the date the Norwich Union plan was switched to the MC Trustees SIPP, 
and that the starting value is the full value before any fees were deducted.
The Romanian Fund was closed without any value.
Mr W is now 75 years old and compensation should be paid into his bank account.
Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement is 20%.
Its now 13 years since the advice complained about was given. The ombudsman 
should consider whether a fairer notional calculation would be based on 100% FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. One-year fixed-rate bonds have had 
an annual return of less than 1% for several years. Its unlikely Mr W wouldve 
invested 50% of his Norwich Union plan monies into such an index for at least part of 
the past 13 years.
Ive considered the further submissions both parties have made, and reviewed all the 
available evidence and arguments again. Having done so, my findings remain those I arrived 
at in my provisional decision. For completeness Ive set out my findings on this complaint in 
full below.
 
What Ive decided  and why
jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint.As a preliminary point, I should explain that although Mr W set out his concerns to us in one 
letter, and Positive Solutions issued one response, the expression of dissatisfaction referred 
to this service by Mr W comprised more than one complaint. And, in this decision, Im only 
looking into Mr Ws complaint about the advice and arrangements to switch his Norwich 
Union pension to the MC Trustees SIPP and then to invest the transferred monies into the 
Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund.
There are two principal issues that need to be addressed, has the complaint been brought in 
time and is Positive Solutions responsible for the acts complained about?
Has the complaint been brought in time?
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) chapter of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
Handbook sets out the rules and guidance we use to decide whether we can look at a 
complaint. It explains that there are time limits for making complaints, DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2R or DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
The event being complained about is the advice and arrangements to switch Mr Ws pension 
from Norwich Union to the MC Trustees SIPP and then to invest the transferred monies into 
the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund.
Positive Solutions has said it first received the complaint in February 2015, this followed on 
from us receiving Mr Ws complaint in December 2014.
Theres no suitability report or recommendation letter for the advice. So, Ive got to consider 
the wider context to establish when its most likely to have happened.
With regards to the EEA Life Fund investment; from the evidence I think its most likely from 
Mr Ps correspondence with MC Trustees that the advice process concluded in May 2009. 
And Im also satisfied that Mr P was integral to the arrangements to complete the EEA Life 
Fund investment; he corresponded with MC Trustees about the transaction, he sent a 
completed application form for the investment into MC Trustees on 1 June 2009 and he 
verified Mr Ws identity for the transaction.
May 2009 was within six years of both us and Positive Solutions receiving this complaint. So, 
Im satisfied the portion of this complaint which relates to advice and arrangements to invest in the EEA Life Fund was raised within six years of the event complained about. Therefore, 
my finding is this portion of the complaint isnt time barred.
Regarding the pension switch and the Romanian Fund investment advice; in order to invest 
in the Romanian Fund, Mr W first had to transfer his Norwich Union plan. By 16 October 
2008 it looks as if the advice process had started, but Im satisfied that process wasnt 
concluded until some days later for the pension switch.
The evidence shows that Mr W signed a transfer of servicing request on 13 September 
2008. And Mr P then faxed this to Norwich Union, along with a request for information on 13 
October 2008. The information Mr P requested from Norwich Union about the plan included 
details of any guaranteed annuity rates, fund values, investments, death benefits and a 
projection of fund values based on several growth rates.
Mr W signed a MC Trustees Transfer In Form on 16 October 2008, but this doesnt appear 
to have been received by MC Trustees until 27 October 2008. And there were also some 
discussions between Mr P and MC Trustees about the Romanian Fund, but Ive not seen 
any which relate to Mr W specifically from before 17 October 2008.
An advised pension switch is a complex process in which advisers generally compare the 
existing policy with a proposed policy before advising whether a switch should be effected. 
Advisers also generally obtain information about the existing policy before finalising their 
advice, and Im satisfied thats the process Mr P followed here. I say that because Mr P 
didnt just ask Norwich Union for the transfer documentation when he sent the 13 October 
2008 fax. Instead, he sought specific information about Mr Ws plan, including details about 
benefits and future projections. I think its most likely that this information then formed part of 
Mr Ps final advice. Norwich Union didnt send the information requested to Mr P until 18 
October 2008. So, Im satisfied Mr Ps pension switching advice most likely hadnt been 
finalised before that date.
For the investment in the Romanian Fund then it looks like the advice process continued 
fairly late into November 2008, with Mr P still corresponding with Mr W about the amount he 
could invest in the Fund with shares secured at a previous closing price.
Further, the pension switch and investment in the Romanian Fund didnt complete until 
November 2008 and December 2008 respectively. And Im satisfied that Mr P was integral to 
the arrangements to complete these transactions. He corresponded with MC Trustees and 
Curzon, he sent completed documents for Mr W into MC Trustees and he verified Mr Ws 
identity. As Ive said above, I think these arrangements all form part of the matter that Mr W 
is complaining about.
So, I think the events Mr Ws complained about all occurred after 18 October 2008.
Mr W first sent his complaint to Mr P/Regent on 2 October 2014, and he later sent a copy of 
his letter to Mr P by recorded delivery on 13 October 2014. Mr Ws complaint letters were 
correctly addressed, and the 13 October 2014 recorded delivery letter was signed for the 
following day by someone with Mr Ps surname. I dont think its plausible that neither of 
Mr Ws letters were received by Mr P. So, I think Mr W had referred his complaint to Mr P 
within six years of all the events hes complaining about here. After acknowledging receipt of 
Mr Ws complaint in November 2008, Mr P doesnt appear to have sent the complaint on to 
Positive Solutions, or to have responded to it.
Im satisfied the 13 October 2014 letter, at least, was received and that the record of the 
recorded delivery could constitute a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received on 14 October 2014. However, by October 2014, Mr P was no longer an RI of Positive Solutions and Positive Solutions only found out about the 
complaint in February 2015 after it was contacted by us.
So, I dont think Mr W can be said to have referred the portion of this complaint that relates 
to the pension switch and the Romanian Fund investment to Positive Solutions within six 
years of the events complained about.
I also dont think the three-year part of the rule gives Mr W more time. Positive Solutions has 
highlighted that the Romanian Fund was suspended in June 2011 and that the value of the 
investment had fallen significantly by December 2010. And in MC Trustees August 2010 
SIPP valuation for Mr W the value of the Romanian Fund had already fallen to about £9,000. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr W was aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he 
had cause for complaint about the Romanian Fund more than three years before he 
complained. I also think that in this case the pension switch and the Romanian Fund advice 
were inextricably linked, such that Mr W ought reasonably to have become aware that he 
had cause for complaint about the pension switch at the same time.
However, our rules allow us to still consider a complaint if exceptional circumstances apply 
and, in my view, the failure to comply with the time limits in this case was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances. 
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mr W referred his complaint to Mr P within six years of 
the events complained about. Mr W then referred his complaint on to us around eight weeks 
after the 13 October 2014 letter to Mr P had been signed for on receipt.
I think Mr Ws initial referral of his complaint to Mr P was an entirely natural thing for Mr W to 
do. Mr P was the individual who had advised Mr W, and he was the person Mr W had direct 
contact with about the events being complained about. I dont think Mr W wouldve had any 
reason to believe that he couldnt send his complaint to Mr P or that if he did so it wouldnt 
then be handled in accordance with Positive Solutions complaints process.
And I think its reasonable to expect Mr P to have dealt with the complaint on receipt in the 
appropriate way, either by forwarding the complaint on to Positive Solutions promptly or by 
expressly (and promptly) informing Mr W that he would need to resend his complaint letter 
directly to Positive Solutions. Neither of those things happened  but this wasnt the fault of 
Mr W.
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr W should be penalised for the fact that his complaint 
wasnt referred to Positive Solutions or us until shortly after the expiration of the usual time 
limits. So, my finding is that no portion of this complaint is time barred as exceptional 
circumstances apply.
Is there any other reason I cant look at the complaint?
The basis of our compulsory jurisdiction is set out in the DISP section of the FCA Handbook. 
In general terms the DISP rules lead to a number of jurisdiction tests all of which must be 
satisfied. Those tests, in broad terms, require a complaint to be brought against a regulated 
business, for the acts or omissions the complaint relates to be related to a regulated activity 
carried out by that business, made by an eligible complainant within certain time limits and to 
be within our territorial jurisdiction.DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility)."
Positive Solutions hasnt got any record of advice being given on the switch from Norwich 
Union or the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund investments.
Mr W contends that Mr P advised on and arranged these investments. Positive Solutions 
seems to disagree, and it certainly says it didnt authorise Mr P to give the disputed advice or 
arrange those investments.
Positive Solutions says that Mr P explained to Mr W that Positive Solutions didnt offer 
advice on unregulated investments. And that Mr P merely introduced Mr W to Curzon.
Theres no written record of the advice that Mr W says he was given in this complaint by Mr 
P. There are, however, a number of points that support Mr Ws submission that the pension 
switch and subsequent investments in the Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund were 
undertaken as a result of [Mr Ps] recommendations and advice as my IFA.
We know that in October 2008 Mr P was advising Mr W on another pension plan he had. 
And, from the correspondence set out above, Im satisfied that Mr P was also in contact with 
Mr W regarding the transactions this complaint concerns.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I dont think Mr Ps comments that he only 
introduced Mr W to Curzon are credible. Mr Ps details were in the investment application 
documents submitted to MC Trustees, and it was Mr P who provided completed forms on 
behalf of Mr W to MC Trustees for the pension switch and investments. As Ive set out 
above, Mr P also appears to have been integrally involved in gathering information from 
Norwich Union and making the arrangements for the switch and subsequent investments in 
the Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund.
The Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund were UCISs. Advising on the merits of investing in 
such investments is a regulated activity our service has jurisdiction to look at. So too is 
advising someone to switch their pension rights from an existing personal pension to a SIPP. 
And so is advice on how to invest the funds in the new SIPP including any advice to invest 
those funds in a UCIS. Arranging such investments is also a regulated activity. And, on 
balance, I consider that its more likely than not that Mr P both advised on, and made 
arrangements for, the pension switch from Norwich Union and subsequent investments in 
the Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund.
As such, the next question to address is whether the acts or omissions this complaint relates 
to are the acts or omissions of Positive Solutions. To consider this complaint I need to be 
satisfied that, when carrying out the acts or omissions this complaint relates to, Mr P was 
acting as an agent of Positive Solutions, and that those acts or omissions are in respect of 
activities for which Positive Solutions accepted responsibility.Mr P wasnt an employee of Positive Solutions, he was its agent and he had an agency 
agreement with it to be one of its RIs. This meant that Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to 
carry out certain regulated acts on its behalf.
The agency agreement was non-exclusive, it didnt prevent Mr P acting independently or for 
another firm at the same time. But I dont think thats what happened here. And Im satisfied 
that in giving the advice and making the arrangements this complaint concerns that Mr P 
was acting as an agent of Positive Solutions. I say that because:
Mr W was asked to sign a transfer of servicing request form on Positive Solutions 
headed paper.
Mr P wrote to and received correspondence from Norwich Union relating to Mr Ws 
ceding scheme as an agent of Positive Solutions.
Mr Ps details with Positive Solutions authorisation number appears on the 
investment application forms.
The emails from Mr P referred to above were sent from a Regent email address and 
said that Regent was a trading style of Positive Solutions in the emails footer 
section.
Mr P was advising Mr W as an agent of Positive Solutions about other pension 
arrangements in 2008.
So, I now need to go on to decide whether the advice and arrangements given and made by 
Mr P are acts for which Positive Solutions accepted responsibility. If not, then we wont have 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint against Positive Solutions.
Did Positive Solutions accept responsibility for the advice?
The law recognises more than one type of agency. Agency is where one party (the principal 
- here Positive Solutions) allows another party (the agent  here Mr P) to act on its behalf in 
such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. An agent may have actual 
authority, where the principal has expressly or impliedly given its assent to the agent that it 
may act on its behalf. Or the agent may have apparent authority, where the principal has 
made a representation to a third party that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and 
the third party has relied on this representation.
Theres an express agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr P. The agreement sets 
out that Mr P must account to Positive Solutions for all business and only advise on 
investments that it had pre-approved. Theres also a general point in agency of this type that 
the agent is required to act in the principals best interests.
As I understand it, none of MC Trustees SIPP, the Romanian Fund or the EEA Life Fund 
were approved investments, and Mr P doesnt appear to have notified Positive Solutions 
about what he was doing. So, it doesnt appear as if Mr P was acting in accordance with the 
actual authority hed been given. And I cant conclude that Positive Solutions accepted 
responsibility for acts complained about by Mr W by way of actual authority.
That is not however the end of the matter, because theres also agency based on apparent 
or ostensible authority. It arises when the principal represents to third parties through words 
or conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably 
relies upon that representation. The essence of apparent authority isnt concerned with what 
was actually agreed between the parties (for example by way of the agency agreement), but 
rather, how the relationship between those parties appeared to third parties. In this 
complaint, Im concerned with how the relationship appeared to Mr W.The case law makes it clear that whether a claimant has relied on a representation is 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So here, I must consider whether, on 
the facts of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr W that Mr P had Positive Solutions 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about; 
and
Mr W reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he 
now complains about.
I need to decide whether Positive Solutions placed Mr W in a position which would 
objectively generally be regarded as carrying its authority to enter into transactions. Such as 
the setting up of the SIPP to switch Mr Ws existing Norwich Union plan to it in order to 
invest in the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund and/or to make direct investments into such 
investment schemes. Put another way, did Positive Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly 
lead Mr W to believe that Mr P was authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type 
(namely, advising and arranging investments) that he wasnt in fact authorised to conduct? If 
I find that it did, I also need to decide whether Mr W reasonably relied on any representation 
Positive Solutions made.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mr W that Mr P had the relevant authority?
I think Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would objectively generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr W complains about. I say this for the 
following reasons.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an IFA firm that gave advice and offered products from 
the whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information was provided to 
clients or potential clients about the agent being authorised in relation to approved products 
only.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to give investment advice on its behalf and Mr P was held 
out by it as authorised to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged 
for Mr P to appear on the regulators register in respect of Positive Solutions. And Mr P was 
approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to use Positive Solutions stationery, such as the transfer 
of servicing request form Mr W completed.
Positive Solutions accepts Mr W was given its ToB by Mr P. This showed that Mr P could 
advise on and arrange investments and set up SIPPs for Positive Solutions customers. 
None of these activities would be unexpected for an IFA firm. Theyre all the type of activity 
that IFAs are usually authorised to do.
Any restrictions on the authority to give advice on transferring existing pensions, setting up a 
SIPP or using only certain investments wouldnt have been visible to Mr W. So, for example, 
he wouldnt know that an adviser should only recommend approved investments, should 
obtain clearance from Positive Solutions before giving certain types of advice and should 
present the advice in certain ways.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr W, to understand that 
it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. Im satisfied that 
Positive Solutions intended Mr W to act on its representation that Mr P was its financial 
adviser. I say this because, the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive 
Solutions business. It said in its terms of business that its Partners would give impartial, independent financial advice. I dont see how Positive Solutions couldve carried out its 
business activities at all if the general public hadnt treated registered individuals like Mr P as 
having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr W complains about.
So I think that all of these points taken together mean that Positive Solutions did represent to 
Mr W that Mr P was authorised to give the advice he gave to Mr W and make the 
arrangements he did.
Did Mr W reasonably rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Positive Solutions has said that Mr P recollects telling Mr W that Positive Solutions didnt 
offer advice on unregulated investments. But I dont think Mr Ps recollections about this are 
consistent with the correspondence available from the point of sale. As Ive explained above, 
I think this correspondence makes it clear that Mr P was purporting to act as an agent of 
Positive Solutions in these matters.
Mr Ws also said he understood Mr P to be acting as a Positive Solutions adviser when he 
gave the advice and made the arrangements that this complaint concerns. And I havent 
seen any evidence to show that Mr W knew or should reasonably have known that Mr P was 
acting in any capacity other than a Positive Solutions adviser.
In my view, on balance, the evidence does indicate that Mr W proceeded on the basis that 
Mr P was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from 
Positive Solutions so to act. In other words, Mr W reasonably relied on Positive Solutions 
representation that Mr P was authorised to give the investment advice he gave to Mr W.
Its therefore my finding that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mr W complains 
about and that we can consider his complaint.
merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to address every 
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund both appear to have been UCISs. And, as such, 
were subject to the scheme promotion restriction (s.238 FSMA). Adviser firms had a choice 
between two different sets of exemptions from the s.238 restrictions under the Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001 SI 1060 (as amended) and under 
FSA rules exempting the promotion of UCIS under certain circumstances. Relevant 
exemptions included:
Certified high net worth individuals.
Certified sophisticated investors.
Self-certified sophisticated investors
Ive seen no evidence that Mr W was certified by Positive Solutions as a high net worth 
individual or as a sophisticated investor. And in any case, as explained in my provisional 
decision and as Ive set out again below, I think the advice to invest in the Romanian Fund 
and the EEA Life Fund was unsuitable for Mr W.
With regards to the third category, self-certified sophisticated investors, Positive Solutions 
says that Mr P recollects Mr W completing and signing certificates with Curzon to confirm he 
was a self-certified sophisticated investor. Mr W hasnt agreed with Mr Ps recollection about 
this, and weve seen no evidence of the certificates Mr Ps mentioned. Mr Ws said that:
There is again no documentation to supportthe certificates referred to, to 
entertaining the notion that any of us could possibly consider ourselves, or be 
allowed to consider ourselves as sophisticated investors, self-certified or otherwise.
As Ive mentioned above, Mr Ps recollection about only having introduced Mr W to Curzon, 
isnt consistent with the documentary evidence from the point of sale. And, in my opinion, 
that lack of consistency does make Mr Ps recollections about a different aspect of the same 
transaction, and from the same general period, less credible.
On balance, and from all the evidence Ive seen to date, I dont think its most likely that Mr 
W was a sophisticated investor. And I also dont think its most likely Mr W wouldve signed 
something to say that he was.
UCISs couldve been promoted to Mr W by Mr P if hed assessed them as being suitable 
investments for Mr W. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the Romanian Fund or the EEA 
Life Fund were suitable for Mr W.
In advising Mr W, Mr P ought to have made a recommendation that was consistent with
Mr Ws circumstances, objectives, attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss. And Mr P 
ought to have explained in writing the reasons he thought the switch and subsequent UCIS 
investments were appropriate for Mr W, including an explanation of the risks associated with 
the advice, but this doesnt appear to have happened.
As I understand it, the Romanian Fund was a specialist fund intending to buy property for the 
residential property market in Romania. This suggests a focus on one specific part of the 
property sector in one overseas market. I think this investment would generally be 
considered a higher risk investment.
The EEA Life Fund invested in traded life assurance policies. This type of investment carried 
a number of inherent risks. These include illiquidity and longevity of policy due to an ageing 
population and advances in medical science. As the policies making up the fund were based overseas, there was also a currency risk. The fund also depended on the financial stability of 
the underlying insurance companies. Overall, Im satisfied that the EEA Life Fund exposed 
the invested monies to a significant risk of capital loss.
These two UCISs were unusual holdings, operating in very specific ways. And they might 
reasonably be described as sophisticated and/or complex investments; and could suffer 
significant losses, the nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the outset. I 
consider the holdings exposed investors to significant risks such as: opaque corporate 
structures; illiquidity; and risks inherent in unregulated investments. These investments 
werent subject to regulation in the same way as regulated funds. And investors potentially 
didnt have recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme or this service.
These factors were, or shouldve been, apparent to Mr P at the time of advice and shouldve 
been taken carefully into account in assessing the suitability of these investments for Mr W.
The investments in these two UCISs were, in my view, non-standard and specialist. I take 
the view Mr P ought to have been aware of the fact that such specialist holdings were 
unlikely to be suitable for Mr W. Its important for advisers to take these matters into account 
when assessing the suitability of the products for an individual investor. And for potential 
investors to understand that such investments presented a significant risk to the monies 
being invested. And, from what Ive seen to date, the risks involved in investing in these two 
holdings werent adequately explained to Mr W by Mr P.
The sums invested in the Romanian Fund and the EEA Life Fund only made up a relatively 
moderate portion of Mr Ws total pension provisions. But, in my view, these investments 
werent suitable holdings for any portion of the pension provisions of a medium risk retail 
client in Mr Ws circumstances and with his capacity for loss.
So, I think the recommendation that Mr P gave Mr W, to switch his monies from the Norwich 
Union plan into the SIPP so as to invest in unregulated holdings, was unsuitable. And I think 
that Mr W should be compensated for any losses that hes suffered as a result of this.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr W has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he 
received, I think that the loss of a not insignificant portion of his pension provision has 
caused him distress, and I think that its fair for Positive Solutions to compensate him for this 
as well.
Responses to my provisional decision
Positive Solutions asked that I look at any alleged advice that was given after Mr P ceased 
to be an RI of Positive Solutions in 2011. Positive Solutions asked that I confirm that such 
advice wasnt its responsibility, and that Id taken this into account in any redress Im 
awarding.
My findings in this decision concern Mr Ws complaint about the advice he received to switch 
his Norwich Union pension plan to a MC Trustees SIPP, and then to invest the transferred 
monies into unregulated holdings. That advice was all given before 2011.
 
Ive already acknowledged in my provisional decision that Mr P ceased to be an RI of 
Positive Solutions in 2011, and that when later advice was given to Mr W in 2012 that 
Positive Solutions wasnt responsible for that advice. I stated that (bold my emphasis):
I think its fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to redress Mr W for all losses 
which have been caused by monies being unsuitably switched to MC Trustees and 
then invested in the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund.Further changes were made to Mr Ws pension provisions when monies in his MC 
Trustees SIPP were transferred to I.P.M. The Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund 
holdings were transferred in specie in December 2010, and the remaining SIPP 
balance of about £750 was transferred in May 2012. Mr P was no longer an RI of 
Positive Solutions when the May 2012 transfer was effected, so it wasnt 
responsible for that advice.
And Ive repeated these same findings later on in this final decision. 
The redress steps I set out in the provisional decision were very deliberately, and carefully, 
drafted so as to ensure that Positive Solutions is only redressing Mr W for those losses that 
Im satisfied arose as a result of advice and/or arrangements for which Positive Solutions is 
responsible. And I remain satisfied that the redress steps I originally set out in the provisional 
decision are the appropriate method of calculating redress in this complaint.
Mr Ws representatives comments in response to my provisional decision included that:
It should be made clear to Positive Solutions that the notional calculation should 
begin on the date the Norwich Union plan was switched to the MC Trustees SIPP, 
and that the starting value is the full value before any fees were deducted.
The Romanian Fund closed without any value.
Its now 13 years since the advice complained about was given. The ombudsman 
should consider whether a fairer notional calculation would be based on 100% FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. One-year fixed-rate bonds have had 
an annual return of less than 1% for several years, its unlikely Mr W wouldve 
invested 50% of his Norwich Union plan monies into such an index for at least part of 
the past 13 years.
The redress wording set out in my provisional decision directs, amongst other things, 
Positive Solutions to calculate what the monies transferred away from Mr Ws Norwich 
Union plan would be worth assuming theyd achieved a notional return from the date of 
transfer to the date of this decision and with allowances being made for specific notional 
withdrawals and contributions.
So, the redress wording that appeared in the provisional decision already specified the 
starting value  its the value of the monies transferred away from the Norwich Union plan 
(and this can be readily determined as a matter of fact by way of approaching the 
transferring provider and asking it to confirm the sum transferred away). And the start date  
its the date of transfer away from the Norwich Union plan (and again, this can be readily 
determined as a matter of fact by way of approaching the transferring provider and asking it 
to confirm the date of transfer). And those notional contributions and notional withdrawals 
that must be allowed for in the calculation.
 
One of the notional withdrawals allowed for in the calculation, is any monies that were 
realised (and to be clear this includes returns) from the Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund 
holdings after they were transferred away from MC Trustees. So, Ive noted what Mr Ws 
said about the Romanian Fund, but Positive Solutions might wish to seek confirmation from 
Mr Ws subsequent (after MC Trustees) pension provider(s) about whether any monies were 
eventually realised from the Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund holdings. And its important 
that Mr W understands that hell be expected to co-operate fully with Positive Solutions, so 
as to assist it with obtaining this information from his pension provider(s) in a timely fashion. 
As Ive explained below, Im satisfied Mr Ws investment objectives for the monies this 
complaint concerns were capital growth with a small risk to capital. I consider that the average rate for the fixed rate bonds is a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risk to his capital. And that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
total return index is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. Im satisfied that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. Im satisfied that the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. This doesnt mean that Mr 
W wouldve invested 50% of his money in fixed rate bonds and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this to be a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr W couldve obtained from investments suited to his objectives 
and risk attitude over the period in question. 
Putting things right
I think its most likely that Mr Ws objectives in respect of the pension provisions mentioned 
in the October 2008 Fact Find were also his objectives for his pension monies with Norwich 
Union. So, I think its most likely that in October 2008 Mr W was looking for capital growth 
and to reduce the risk to which his pension provisions were exposed.
My aim is to return Mr W to the position he would now be in if suitable advice had been 
given. I think an appropriate option for Mr W could likely have been found through his 
existing Norwich Union plan. So, I think if suitable advice had been given that Mr Ws monies 
wouldve been retained in the Norwich Union plan, and wouldve been invested in a range of 
holdings that were appropriate for Mr W allowing for his circumstances, attitude to risk and 
investment objectives.
Ive no way of determining definitively into what holdings, and in what proportions, the 
monies in question wouldve been invested had suitable advice been given. So, I think its 
fair and reasonable to ask Positive Solutions to perform a notional redress calculation, and 
using a benchmark with the qualities of investments of the type Mr W would likely have 
made.
I think its fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to redress Mr W for all losses which 
have been caused by monies being unsuitably switched to MC Trustees and then invested in 
the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund.
Further changes were made to Mr Ws pension provisions when monies in his MC Trustees 
SIPP were transferred to I.P.M. The Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund holdings were 
transferred in specie in December 2010, and the remaining SIPP balance of about £750 
was transferred in May 2012. Mr P was no longer an RI of Positive Solutions when the May 
2012 transfer was effected, so it wasnt responsible for that advice.
To be fair, any redress calculation needs to allow for any monies that were realised from the 
Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund after they were transferred away from MC Trustees. And, 
after carefully considering all the options, I consider the fairest approach is to treat the 
balance of the MC Trustees SIPP switched to I.P.M in May 2012, and also any sums that 
were realised from the Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund after they were transferred away 
from MC Trustees, as notional withdrawals. And with these withdrawals being treated as 
occurring on the date on which the event they relate to actually occurred.
By this I mean that the notional withdrawal for the balance transfer from MC Trustees to 
I.P.M would be on 15 May 2012. And the deduction for any sums realised from the 
Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund following their transfer from MC Trustees, would be on the 
date the proceeds were either paid to Mr W or credited to one of his pension policies. The 
sums allowed for as notional withdrawals will then cease to accrue any return in the notional 
calculation from the date that theyre notionally withdrawn. As mentioned, there were also member contributions paid into the MC Trustees SIPP in 
October 2010 and November 2011. The remaining cash balance of the MC Trustees SIPP 
was very low before these contributions were made. And I think its most likely these 
contributions were made to ensure ongoing SIPP fees could be met. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable to allow for these monies in the redress calculation; I dont think these additional 
contributions wouldve been made but for the earlier unsuitable advice to switch monies into 
the MC Trustees SIPP and invest in the Romanian Fund and EEA Life Fund.
The full member contributions paid into the MC Trustees SIPP in 2010 and 2011 should be 
treated as notional contributions and be added into the notional redress calculation from the 
point in time when they were actually credited to the MC Trustees SIPP. These sums will 
then start to accrue a return in the notional calculation from that date.
So, in summary, I think Mr W wouldve invested differently and its not possible to say 
precisely what he wouldve done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must do all of the following:
1) If Mr W has any residual holdings in the Romanian Fund or the EEA Life Fund as at 
the date of this decision, then Quilter should take ownership of these.
Quilter should do this by paying a commercial value acceptable to Mr Ws pension 
provider to purchase any residual holdings Mr W has in the Romanian Fund or the 
EEA Life Fund. As explained in step 2) below, the purchase price Quilter pays for 
such holdings may then be treated as a notional withdrawal from the calculation in 
step 2).
Alternatively, if Quilter is unable or unwilling to take ownership of any residual 
holdings Mr W has in the Romanian Fund or the EEA Life Fund, theres another 
option available to it. If it wishes, Quilter may require that Mr W provides an 
undertaking to pay it any further amounts he may receive from the Romanian Fund or 
EEA Life Fund investments in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. If 
Quilter chooses to take such an undertaking, it must be effected before payment of 
compensation is made. Quilter would need to meet any costs in drawing up such an 
undertaking.
2) Calculate what the monies transferred away from Mr Ws Norwich Union plan would 
be worth, as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return from the date of 
transfer equivalent to:
For half the investment the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index.
For the other half of the investment the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each 
month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should 
be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
As part of this notional calculation then Quilter must make an allowance for the 
following notional withdrawals:The balance transferred from the MC Trustees SIPP to I.P.M on 15 May 
2012.
Any monies which were realised (including returns) from the Romanian Fund 
or EEA Life Fund holdings after they were transferred away from MC 
Trustees, and using the date on which the proceeds were either paid to Mr W 
or credited to one of Mr Ws pension policies.
The purchase price Quilter pays to take ownership of any residual holdings in 
the Romanian Fund or the EEA Life Fund, and using the date of this decision 
as the notional withdrawal date for this.
Quilter must also make an allowance for the following notional contributions:
The full member contributions (including any tax relief) credited to the MC 
Trustees SIPP in 2010 and 2011, and using the date on which those sums 
were actually credited to the SIPP.
3) Interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to the final sum calculated 
in step 2) from the date of this decision to the date of settlement if compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance of this decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr 
W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
4) The final redress sum calculated in step 2) plus any interest payable under step 3) 
should be paid into one of Mr W's current pension plans to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, or if doing so 
would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if 
Mr W wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
5)Pay Mr W directly £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr Ws been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the 
loss of a not insignificant portion of his pension provisions, I think that a payment of 
£300 is fair to compensate him for that upset.
6)Quilter should also provide Mr W with a copy of its calculation, showing its calculation 
of the compensation due in a simple and easy to follow format.Further, Quilter may require, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr W of any claim he may 
have against third parties in relation to the Romanian Fund or EEA Life Fund investments. If 
Quilter chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of 
compensation is made. Quilter would need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
assignment/s.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr W 
wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W couldve obtained from investments suited to 
his objectives and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation that isnt paid 
within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance of the decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above its my final decision that we can consider Mr Ws complaint, 
that the complaint should be upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
must pay fair redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman