DRN-3833289
The complaint
Mr O complains about the settlement amount given to him by Great Lakes Insurance SE 
following a claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Mr O holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Great Lakes. After his car was stolen, 
he made a claim to Great Lakes which it accepted and paid. Mr Os car was purchased on 
finance, so, to settle the claim, Great Lakes paid the finance company the remaining 
balance.
Mr O didnt think this was fair. He said he paid a large deposit  roughly £10,000  toward 
the finance company. And hes said the finance agreement allowed him to own the car at the 
end if he paid a final balloon payment. He also said that not receiving anything following his 
claim meant he wasnt able to purchase another car, so he had to rent one. And hes said 
this was more expensive than a finance deal.
Great Lakes didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. it said it had paid out what the policy required it 
to. So, Mr O brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He thought that while there was a term 
in the policy limiting Great Lakes liability when the insured vehicle was funded by a finance 
agreement, he didnt think applying that term in this case was fair. He also didnt think Great 
Lakes had fairly valued Mr Os car. He recommended Great Lakes pay Mr O the difference 
between the market value of the car and the remaining balance on the finance, the 
difference between his rental costs and what he would have paid toward the finance 
agreement during that time and £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr O agreed with our investigators assessment. Great Lakes didnt and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Os policy with Great Lakes does have a term limiting the amount Great Lakes 
need pay when the vehicle is on finance. It says: If the Market Value We place upon 
the Insured Vehicle is greater than the amount owed to the lease / hire company, We 
will pay them only the amount of the outstanding finance, which will settle the claim in 
full. But this term relates to finance agreements where there is no legal right to the 
title of the vehicle, e.g. a hire agreement or a lease. Mr Os finance agreement was a 
PCP agreement, giving him the option to purchase the vehicle at the end of the 
agreement. So, I dont find this term applies here.
I think the relevant term in the policy sits just above the one just quoted. It says: If 
the Market Value We place upon the Insured Vehicle is equal to or greater than the 
amount owed to the finance company: We will pay the finance company first and 
then settle the balance with the legal owner of the Insured Vehicle.. So, I think the 
fair and reasonable thing to do would have been for Great Lakes to have settled the 
finance on the vehicle, then paid the remaining balance to Mr O, as he would have 
become the legal owner of the vehicle once all the finance was paid. So, I agree with 
our investigator that Great Lakes should pay Mr O the difference between the market 
value of the vehicle and the total amount outstanding on the finance agreement 
(including any balloon payment).
The policy says Great Lakes will pay the market value of the vehicle, not the trade 
value as it originally did. Using the trade guides, I think a fair market value would be 
£31,285, the average of the available guides as this follows our usual approach and 
Ive not been provided anything to persuade me that following it would be unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mr Os car is a taxi, he needed it to work. So, I think its reasonable he hired another 
one rather than go without work. Without a large sum of money up front to purchase 
an alternative taxi outright or put toward a deposit on another vehicle, I think this was 
a reasonable course of action. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes should pay Mr O the 
difference between the rental invoices, and the amount hed have paid toward the 
finance for the same time period. This is because had Great Lakes settled the claim 
fairly initially, I find it likely Mr O would have used the deposit to purchase another 
vehicle and find the monthly payments would likely be less than the rental payments.
Not being paid a fair amount to settle the claim, and having to be in hire for a long 
period would have been distressing and inconvenient to Mr O. Great Lakes should 
pay him £400 to compensate for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Great 
Lakes to:
Pay Mr O the difference between the market value of the car and the total amount 
outstanding on the finance agreement. The market value of the car should be taken 
as £31,285. 
Pay Mr O the difference between what he would have paid toward the finance 
agreement and what he paid in hire car costs. This payment should be calculated 
from the date Great Lakes settled the claim with the finance company to the date it 
pays Mr O, subject to him providing invoices. This payment should include 8% simple 
interest. Interest should be calculated from the date Great Lakes settled the claim 
with the finance company, to the date it makes this payment to Mr O.
Pay Mr O £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Joe ThornleyOmbudsman