DRN-3867521
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her home 
insurance policy for an underground pipe problem.
Mrs B has been represented at times but, for simplicity, reference to her includes anything 
said by her representative.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs B discovered a problem with the underground pipes at her home when she 
noticed the foul drains backing up.
She got in touch with a drainage company, R, who found tree roots in the pipe. 
These were removed and the blockage was cleared. R also found a displaced joint in 
the pipe, which it recommended be repaired. Mrs B paid around £1,500 for the 
blockage to be removed and associated work. She asked for Aviva to meet this cost 
and carry out the work required to repair the displaced joint.
Prior to agreeing for the blockage to be cleared, Mrs B spoke to Aviva. She says it 
agreed for her to proceed with the work and it said it would appoint its own 
contractor, G, who would contact her.
G said if it had carried out the work, it would have cost around £850. It offered £750 
to settle the claim, after deducting the £100 excess.
Mrs B complained about the way the claim had been handled. Amongst other things, 
she said shed had to wait nearly two months for contact with G  and that only 
happened because she chased Aviva.
Aviva accepted there had been missteps, including an initial complaint response 
based on incorrect information. But it thought Gs offer was correct as it represented 
the amount it would have cost G to carry out the work. It said it hadnt authorised the 
work during the initial call. It accepted there had been delays and miscommunication 
during the claim and offered £200 compensation.
Our investigator thought the offer for the claim was in line with the policy terms. She 
didnt think the displaced pipe was covered under the policy as it hadnt been linked 
to the blockage. And she thought £200 was reasonable for the poor claim handling.
Mrs B didnt think this was a fair outcome. She said it was necessary to have the 
blockage removed immediately, as it was causing waste water to back up. And given 
G didnt get in touch with her promptly, it wouldnt have been viable for her to wait for 
G before having the blockage cleared.
More recently, Mrs B got in touch with Aviva as the drain had become blocked again. 
G were again appointed and this time it cleared the blockage. But it didnt agree to 
repair the pipe. Mrs B noted there had recently been a subsidence claim at her 
property, caused by a tree close to the drains. She questioned whether the same tree 
that caused subsidence had also damaged the drains by causing the displacement.
Aviva considered what Mrs B had said, but it didnt agree to pay to repair the pipe. It 
said there was no evidence to suggest the pipe had been damaged accidentally, as 
defined by the policy, and/or by tree roots.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers the cost of breaking into and repairing an underground pipe in 
order to clear a blockage, up to £1,000.
In some situations where a policyholder has work carried out and then contacts the 
insurer to make the claim, it may be fair for the insurer to settle based on what it 
would have cost if it had been given the chance to carry out the work itself.
But I dont think this is one of those situations. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to Mrs Bs initial call with Aviva. After she explained the circumstances, 
Aviva said it was something it would look to consider and it would refer the matter to 
its contractor, G, who would contact Mrs B later that evening or the next day. So I 
dont think Aviva agreed to meet the costs of Rs work or committed to anything other 
than appointing G to promptly consider things further.
However, G didnt contact Mrs B. I understand a system problem between Aviva and 
G was the cause of this, but I dont think that matters. Ultimately Mrs B was told to 
expect a call the same day or the next. And it was only after she chased Aviva that 
she heard from G  nearly two months later.
Mrs B was faced with foul drains backing up, risking waste water entering her home. 
Im satisfied in these circumstances it would have been reasonable for her to have 
the blockage removed promptly. And if she had waited for G, its likely the problem 
would have worsened, increasing the distress and inconvenience to her and the cost 
to Aviva. So, whilst Aviva didnt agree to meet the costs of the work during the call, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to limit the costs to what G would have 
charged in these circumstances.
The policy covers up to £1,000 for clearing a blockage. Mrs B paid more than this, so 
I think it would be fair for Aviva to pay up to the limit. If Aviva has already paid Mrs B 
its earlier offer, it need only pay the remainder to make up £1,000 in total.
Mrs B would also like Aviva to carry out repairs to the pipe as suggested by R. Both 
parties have agreed to expand the scope of this complaint to include the recent 
investigations carried out by G.
G initially questioned whether the damage to the pipe amounts to a displaced joint 
under sewer condition classification. R carried out a CCTV survey and used that to report a displaced joint. I understand G hadnt visited or carried out a survey of its 
own initially. More recently it has done, and it described a slight lip in the pipework. 
So I think its now agreed by all parties that there is displacement or misalignment in 
the pipework. Avivas offer to settle the claim doesnt include an allowance for these 
repairs.
The policy covers accidental damage to underground pipes. That damage doesnt 
need to be related to a blockage in order to be covered. But it does need to meet the 
definition of accidental damage, which is:
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force
Ive considered the evidence about the damage to decide whether it meets this 
definition.
R identified the displacement problem in its report and recommended how to put it 
right, but it didnt offer an opinion about how the problem was caused. It noted the 
presence of roots in the pipe but didnt comment on whether the roots had caused 
any damage to the pipe.
Initially, G didnt offer an opinion about the cause of damage either. More recently it 
carried out a CCTV survey of its own and said a defective connection had caused the 
slight lip  and that in turn was causing blockages. It said the defect was a result of 
poor installation, but it hasnt provided any further comment or evidence to support 
this finding.
Overall, theres little evidence about the cause of the displacement damage. The 
onus is on Mrs B to show it was likely caused in a way that meets the definition 
above. I note her point that the tree roots may have caused the problem, but theres 
no expert evidence to support that. The pressure of tree roots and/or ground 
movement may have caused the displacement. But its also possible the roots 
entered the pipe through an existing misalignment  which may be the result of poor 
installation as Aviva suggests.
Whilst it remains possible the damage meets the definition, Im not persuaded the 
evidence available to me shows it likely was. For that reason, Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Aviva to decline to deal with the displacement damage on the strength 
of available evidence.
Mrs B is entitled to seek further information about the cause of the damage if she 
wishes.
Its agreed by both parties that Aviva has provided a poor service to Mrs B. There 
have been significant delays, poor communication, and a complaint response based 
on incorrect information. And Aviva didnt give a clear answer about the pipe 
displacement problem until Mrs B called them back some time later. All of this has 
contributed to unnecessary distress and inconvenience for Mrs B during the first part 
of the claim.
Im pleased to see Aviva has recognised this by offering £200 compensation. But Im 
not satisfied that goes far enough to put things right. I think £300 would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. If Aviva has already paid the £200 it offered, it 
need only pay £100 more.I know Mrs B feels strongly that Aviva has treated her unfairly in the second part of 
the claim too. But Im not satisfied thats the case. It sent G to unblock the pipe and 
then carried out a survey to check the condition of the pipe. I think its findings are 
reasonable based on the available evidence. So I dont intend to ask Aviva to pay 
compensation for the way it handled the second part of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. She also said she hadnt 
been paid anything by Aviva up to this point, so she would like to receive a full settlement.
Aviva acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but didnt provide a response to it.
As Mrs B has accepted my findings and Aviva hasnt challenged them, I see no reason to 
change them or comment further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay a total of £1,000 for dealing with the blockage
Pay a total of £300 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman