DRN-2981191
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Mr L is Cs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C banked with HSBC and approached the bank for a loan under the Coronavirus Business 
Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme shortly after it was launched by the government in March 
2020. The company was looking to borrow £5,000,000.
Mr L had some preliminary discussions about the loan application with a relationship 
manager in May, before the application was passed over to a second relationship manager 
to take forward later that month. They requested some further information about the 
company over the weeks that followed, which Mr L duly provided.
HSBC wrote to Mr L on 31 July to advise that it had declined Cs application. The bank said 
that based on the information provided, it had concluded that:
The purpose of the loan wasnt an eligible purpose under the CBIL Scheme;
The company hadnt been trading profitably in the period prior to 31 December 2019; 
and
The company couldnt demonstrate that it had sufficient cash flow prior to 31 
December 2019 to demonstrate that it could afford the loan repayments in normal 
trading conditions.
Mr L complained to HSBC about its decision, but it remained unchanged. So Mr L referred 
the matter to us. He didnt think the banks rationale for declining Cs application was justified 
or borne out by the companys performance. He also highlighted that the relationship 
manager he spoke with originally had confirmed the company to be both profitable and 
eligible under the CBIL Scheme, and been positive about the application more broadly.
One of our investigators reviewed Cs complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said:
While the CBIL Scheme was backed by the government, the decision to lend still 
rested with the lender. There were certain criteria that had to be met, including that 
the proposal was one that a lender would consider viable were it not for the 
pandemic. So HSBC had been entitled and expected to consider the viability of Cs 
proposal. 
She didnt think the banks decision to decline the application was unreasonable, 
given the conclusions it reached after assessing the financial information that D had 
provided.
Shed not been able to obtain a recording of Mr Ls conversations with the first 
relationship manager. But even accepting what hed said about the positive 
indications hed received, she didnt think there was any guarantee that the 
application would be successful until the agreement was entered into and funds were 
drawn down.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. While accepting that the decision to lend rested 
with HSBC, he said it still needed to be based on objective, clearly-defined criteria and 
remained concerned about the rationale behind the decision to decline Cs request. He also 
thought it irregular that the bank hadnt retained recordings of the calls hed had with the 
relationship manager, given their relevance to its due diligence checks. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. I should point out that in doing so, I wont address each and 
every point that Mr L has raised over the course of his correspondence with us and the bank, 
which I hope he wont see as discourteous. Rather, Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
There were certain criteria that all lenders were expected to apply when considering 
applications for borrowing under the CBIL Scheme. At the same time, there remained an 
element of discretion and subjectivity  as with any other type of lending, it would be 
impossible to create an exhaustive set of criteria against which any and every application 
could be assessed, bearing in mind the variation of proposals that could be made.
The minimum criteria set by the rules of the CBIL Scheme required that the amount 
borrowed be no more than:
Double the applicants 2019 wage bill; or
25% of the applicants 2019 turnover; or 
The applicants liquidity needs for the next 18 months (for small or medium-sized 
enterprises, like C).
Lenders had some discretion under the rules of the Scheme to choose which of these 
parameters it wished to apply.
From what Ive seen, I think Cs application couldve been declined on the basis that it didnt 
fall within any of these limits. It was looking to borrow £5,000,000, which certainly exceeded 
both its wage bill and turnover figures for 2019. It would be harder to assess its liquidity 
needs  but I think it would be difficult to justify a liquidity need of £5,000,000 from what Ive 
seen of the companys financial information. In any event, HSBC didnt decline Cs application on these grounds. So Ive considered 
whether it was fair for the bank to decline the application for the reasons it gave.
On top of the minimum criteria Ive set out above, borrowing under the CBIL Scheme was 
subject to the lender being satisfied that the borrower had a viable business proposition. 
Applications were still subject to affordability and creditworthiness assessments in a similar 
way to conventional loans, with lenders retaining the discretion to consider requests in line 
with their usual underwriting policies. And while lenders could disregard concerns over an 
applicants short-to-medium term performance, this wasnt something that lenders were 
obliged to do altogether (rather, allowance was made for the uncertainty and impact of the 
coronavirus pandemic). 
A key reason for HSBCs decision to decline Cs application was that it didnt consider the 
proposition to be viable. Based on the financial information C provided and what it knew of 
the companys performance  and even setting aside the impact of the pandemic  the bank 
had concerns over the companys ability to service the debt over the loan term. It also 
perceived a level of risk in Cs intention to use a large proportion of the loan funds for 
investment in technology, which it wasnt willing to support with the level of funding 
requested. I think these concerns were justified on the basis of the information at the banks 
disposal and reasonably led HSBC to exercise its discretion to decline Cs application.
I know Mr L feels very strongly that the banks decision was unreasonable and failed to 
factor in various aspects of both its historic performance and pipeline of transactions. Its not 
my role to decide whether the application ought to have succeeded or failed, but rather to 
see whether the banks decision was reasonable. And even taking into account what hes 
told us, I think HSBC exercised its discretion to decline the application reasonably for the 
reasons given. 
There was some dispute as to whether it wouldve been permitted, under the rules of the 
Scheme, to use the loan for the purposes as C intended. HSBC took the view that it wasnt, 
although Ive not seen anything that explicitly confirms that to have been the case. In any 
event, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome  as HSBCs concerns around the 
viability of the proposal meant that it was always going to decline the application. 
I also think HSBC shared sufficient information about the reasons for its decision with Mr L. 
And while I can appreciate why he wouldve wanted the bank to work with him to find a 
solution, it wasnt required to do so. Bearing in mind the level of applications that the bank 
wouldve been dealing with for borrowing under the government-backed loan schemes  
while dealing with the broader impact of the pandemic  I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Mr L remained free to reapply with a revised proposal or seek funding elsewhere.
Ive also considered what Mr L has said about the conversations he had with the first 
relationship manager he dealt with. Its regrettable that recordings of these conversations 
arent available, especially given the importance that Mr L attaches to them. I dont think its 
particularly unusual or unreasonable though  HSBC has explained that the calls were made 
from mobile numbers and therefore not on a recorded line. In any event, I see no reason to 
doubt his recollections and  as the application proceeded  accept that there wouldve been 
a certain level of positivity about its prospects of success at this stage. But it wouldve been 
evident, by virtue of being an application, that it was still subject to a level of assessment and 
ultimately approval by another party. So even accepting what Mr L says about these 
conversations, I dont think they render HSBCs decision unfair or unreasonable.Taking all of the above into account, I dont think HSBC dealt with Cs CBIL application 
incorrectly or unfairly  so Im not requiring that it take any action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman