DRN-4373748
The complaint
Mr H complains that EUI Limited (EUI) unfairly recorded claims that have increased his 
premiums, and recorded incorrect account information, under his home buildings insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mr H says hes made claims under his policy that were never processed by EUI. He says 
these claims should be removed from his record. In addition, he says EUI had the wrong 
payee details, which differs to the account holder on his policy. Because of this Mr H says 
EUI should reimburse the premiums hes paid since 2019 in line with the direct debit 
guarantee scheme.
Mr H says because EUI refused one of his claims this has meant living without electricity. 
In its complaint response dated 31 July 2023 EUI says Mr H had a successful claim in June 
2022 for the theft of a pedal cycle for which it paid out £200. It says he reported two further 
incidents in October 2022 and June 2023. The first was for damage to a garage floor due to 
an oil spillage. The second related to a power breakdown. EUI says it considered the claims, 
but they werent covered under Mr Hs policy. 
In its subsequent complaint response dated 7 September 2023 EUI acknowledged the 
incorrect payee was recorded on Mr Hs policy documents. It apologised for this error and 
sent a cheque for £40 as compensation. 
Mr H didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the records show the claims were 
investigated. Those that were declined were done so in line with Mr Hs policy terms. Our 
investigator says Mr H benefitted from insurance cover from 2019. He didnt think there was 
reason for EUI to refund his premiums. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain. 
Mr H doesnt dispute that he made a claim relating to a pedal cycle in 2022. He confirms that 
he was required to pay his policy excess. EUI says it paid Mr H £200 in relation to this claim. 
Based on this information I cant see that the business did anything wrong. Where a claim 
results in a cost for an insurer it will record this against its insureds policy. It should ensure 
this is recorded accurately. But I havent seen anything that shows it wasnt recorded 
accurately in Mr Hs case. 
I note Mr Hs comments that his claim in October 2022 was for damage to his driveway and 
not his garage floor. Ive looked at the records EUI provided about this incident. It says Mr H 
had no accidental damage cover in place at the time, so it declined the claim for this reason. 
Ive read Mr Hs policy terms and conditions. This says accidental damage cover is optional 
and this will be shown on the policy schedule if selected. Ive read Mr Hs policy schedule. 
He didnt have accidental damage cover selected. Based on this evidence I dont think Mr 
Hs shown that EUI treated him unfairly when declining this claim or for recording it as it did. 
I can see that EUI arranged for an inspection of the damage for Mr Hs claim in June 2023. 
This was for damage to his electrics. The assessor found a flat roof had started to 
breakdown allowing moisture to enter the property affecting the electrics. The report says 
this is the result of a natural breakdown of materials and isnt associated with an insured 
cause. 
The assessor reported an unknown defect for the electrical problem for the areas internally 
that werent identified to be damp. The report says an electrician is required to ascertain the 
cause of the damage. But the assessor concluded there was no cover in place under Mr Hs 
policy to pay for repairs.
I can see from the claim records that Mr H was told he would need to obtain his own 
electricians report.  
Ive looked at the information Mr H received from the electrician he employed. This is limited 
to an invoice for work completed in August 2023 that cost £78. Theres no further detail to 
show what the work entailed or what the cause of the problem was. I think EUI acted 
reasonably when sending an assessor to inspect the damage. But Mr H hasnt provided an 
electricians report that shows he suffered an insured loss. Based on this evidence I dont 
think EUI treated him unfairly when declining his claim. 
EUI has shown that the first claim was recorded with a cost of £200. The second claim was 
recorded as an incident only. No cost was recorded against this claim. The third claim was 
recorded as claim declined with a cost of £149.40 for the inspection report. Based on what 
Ive read this information is recorded correctly. 
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments that EUI should reimburse all his premiums dating back 
to 2019. This is because of an incorrect payee that was recorded on his insurance 
documents. 
I cant see that Mr H has suffered a financial loss as a result of this error. He contacted EUI 
and it made the correction. This caused him some inconvenience, which the business 
acknowledged by apologising and paying him £40. I think this was fair.
Mr H refers to the direct debit guarantee scheme in his complaint. But I cant see why this 
would require EUI to refund his premiums back to 2019. The guarantee ensures a consumer 
can receive an immediate refund where a payment is taken in error or as a result of fraud. I 
cant see that this applies here. Mr H benefitted from the insurance cover EUI provided. Hes 
required to pay his premiums as per his agreement with the business.
Having considered all of this, I dont think EUI treated Mr H unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms to decline two of his claims and settle the other in the way it did. I think its fair that it 
paid £40 compensation for its clerical error. But Mr H hasnt shown why he should receive a 
refund of his premiums, so I cant reasonably ask EUI to do anymore.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman