DRN-3015995
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance policy. Mr S is also unhappy that the insurer cancelled his policy following the 
claim. References to U K Insurance Limited include its agents.
What happened
Mr S had a burst pipe in his bathroom and made a claim on his home insurance policy. He 
said the leak had also caused damage in the kitchen and flooring below. But after a number 
of visits from a loss adjuster his claim was declined by UKI. His insurer said Mr S hadnt 
been honest about the claim. And itd cancelled his policy without refund. 
Mr S said he has memory and health problems and hed explained to the loss adjuster that 
he wasnt in the right state of mind to answer questions. Mr S has a supporting letter from his 
GP regarding the situation. So he wants UKI to honour his claim and reinstate his home 
insurance policy.
UKI said Mr S had reported an escape of water in June 2020 thatd affected his bathroom 
and caused damage in the rooms below. The leak had been repaired so UKI appointed a 
loss adjuster to review the claim. UKI said there didnt appear to be any current damage to 
the kitchen and the only damage Mr S could identify in that area was to the flooring.
UKI said it had some concerns over the information Mr S had provided to its representative 
in August 2020. So it made further inquiries and looked at photos from a previous claim in 
2017. It noted some of the damage Mr S was claiming for in 2020, particularly the kitchen 
flooring, looked like damage that had been at the heart of an earlier claim, and for which a 
settlement had been made.
UKI felt Mr S had deliberately provided inaccurate information in making the 2020 claim and 
had breached the fraud condition of his home insurance policy. So it questioned Mr S again 
in October 2020. Mr S said the flooring was new and had been laid professionally. Hed 
confirmed there hadnt been any pre-existing damage before the bathroom leak. 
But UKI said, given the photos it had seen from 2017, the floor damage couldnt have 
occurred as a result of the recent water leak. It felt Mr S wouldve been aware that the 
damage already existed before the recent leak took place. As a result it declined the claim 
under the fraud condition and cancelled the policy, without refund, from the date the claim 
had been registered.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at all of the evidence provided by Mr S and 
UKI. But she felt UKI had acted reasonably in declining the claim and cancelling the policy 
as Mr S hadnt been able to show the kitchen flooring had been replaced after the 2017 
claim.
Mr S didnt accept her findings. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He said 
hed made a valid claim and the only mistake had been the kitchen flooring. Mr S said hed 
provided information about his condition and the claim should be partly paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr S. Hed suffered damage to his home 
from an escape of water, but his insurer has declined the claim because it felt hed breached 
the fraud conditions of the home insurance policy.
As our investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to decide if a fraud has 
taken place. Our role is to see if UKI has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can see our investigator has provided as comprehensive timeline of the various issues 
relating to the claim. So I wont repeat all of that here. But Ive looked at all of the evidence 
and Ill refer to the points that I think are most relevant to my decision.
UKI has declined the claim and cancelled Mr S policy due to fraud concerns. So Ive looked 
in particular at the general conditions section relating to fraud. The policy asks the 
policyholder to be honest in their dealings with UKI at all times. And the policy states that a 
claim will not be paid if it has in any way been fraudulent, false or exaggerated. UKIs policy, 
like most Ive aware of, allows it to keep the premium paid in the event a fraud occurs.
But fraud is a serious allegation with significant consequences for the policyholder. As such 
this service expects an insurer, in alleging fraud, to support that with strong evidence. For 
example, UKI has noted a number of concerns and discrepancies in Mr S account. But that 
wouldnt usually be enough for this service to accept the insurer has acted reasonably in 
relying on a breach of the fraud condition in the policy to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy. But UKIs general concerns aside, I do note what it has said about the kitchen flooring 
and photos from 2017. I think photos like that are strong evidence, but I also note what Mr S 
has said about his memory. So my findings will focus on this issue.
When Mr S was questioned about the damage reported in the kitchen and to the kitchen 
flooring he was only able to show that the flooring had separated slightly in the middle of the 
room. Mr S had previously stated that both the kitchen and flooring were new and had been 
professionally fitted. He also confirmed no damage had existed to the flooring before the 
escape of water in June 2020. 
After asking Mr S to again confirm the flooring was new and previously undamaged, which 
Mr S did, the loss adjuster showed Mr S photos of the 2017 claim which showed flooring with 
the same damage. After seeing the photos from the previous claim Mr S said he wasnt sure 
if the flooring had been replaced as itd been a few years ago.
I appreciate Mr S says he was going through a difficult personal time and it may have 
affected his memory and the answers he gave to the loss adjuster. He said he was asked 
the same questions repeatedly and it added to his stress. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the loss adjuster to ask Mr S to confirm some of the details  especially 
given the concerns raised about repair work following earlier claims.Ive listened to a recording of the conversation between Mr S and the loss adjuster. Mr S 
doesnt seem to be suffering from stress, for example neither his tone of voice or the way he 
speaks suggest that. 
Further, Mr S seems clear in the answers he provided and only became unsure when 
presented with evidence which contradicted his claim that the floor had been damaged by 
the recent escape of water.
If the flooring had been repaired after the 2017 claim its unlikely the exact same pattern of 
damage would reoccur after another leak. If the flooring hadnt been repaired I think Mr S 
wouldve been aware of the ongoing damaged state of the flooring. And he shouldve known 
not to submit a claim for damage that wouldve been evident to him for some three years. 
Mr S says he had a genuine leak and the only wrong information was about the kitchen 
flooring. And Ive carefully considered the letter from Mr S doctor in relation to his memory 
issues and state of health. But I think its more likely than not that Mr S claimed for damage 
which he wouldve been aware wasnt caused by the recent leak. 
I also note that UKI said itd received an estimate of over £35000 from Mr S for the 2020 
claim for reinstatement of the bathroom, kitchen and hallway decoration. But UKIs 
inspection reports suggest there was little or no water damage to the bathroom or kitchen 
area. Based on everything Ive seen I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude 
that Mr S provided inaccurate information in making the 2020 claim to it, and by doing so 
breached the fraud condition of the policy.
Its my decision that UKI acted fairly in relying on the fraud conditions of the home insurance 
policy in declining Mr S claim following the escape of water in June 2020. I think UKI acted 
reasonably in deciding he had no legitimate reason for including the flooring damage in his 
claim. I also find UKI acted fairly in cancelling the policy without refund of premiums already 
paid in line with the terms and conditions.
Some damage may have occurred to Mr S property as a result of the leak in 2020. So I can 
understand why he thinks some of his claim should be paid. However, this service accepts 
that any act of fraud taints the whole claim as well as the relationship between the insurer 
and policyholder. And Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in making the 
decision it has regarding fraud. So I cant fairly and reasonably ask UKI to consider 
reinstating Mr S policy and settling the remainder of his claim. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman