DRN-3018863
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Allianz Insurance Plc handled a claim she made under her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G had a pet insurance policy that was underwritten by Allianz. In October 2020 her dog 
went to the vet to have a scale and polish of its teeth. During the procedure the vet found 
several of the teeth were wobbly and, after consulting Mrs G, the vet extracted them. Mrs G 
made a claim on her pet insurance policy but Allianz declined the claim. It said Mrs Gs dog 
had some teeth extracted in September 2018 and her policy only covered her for extractions 
for 12 months from that date. It said extractions had been specifically excluded from her 
policy from September 2019.
Mrs G spoke to Allianz. She said she knew extractions werent covered by her policy but she 
said that when shed spoken to Allianz earlier that year (when she renewed her policy), shed 
been led to believe a dental scale and polish would be covered. During the call Mrs G 
became upset and angry when the call handler said the vet had contacted Allianz during the 
procedure to see if Mrs G was covered for the treatment. She complained.
Allianz upheld Mrs Gs complaint. It said the claim had been correctly declined in line with 
the terms of her policy. But the customer service could have been better. It said it was 
disappointed the call handler Mrs G had spoken to had misinformed her the vet had called 
Allianz during the procedure. It also acknowledged it should have raised a complaint and 
responded sooner. It paid Mrs G £100 by way of an apology. It later offered to raise that to 
£150. But Mrs G wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Allianz needed to do any more. She thought it had declined the 
claim fairly. She said she couldnt comment on the way Allianz had handled the complaint 
but said it had acknowledged and apologised for the poor service it had given. And she 
thought the £150 it had offered her was fair. 
Mrs G remains unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs pet insurance policy says that each injury or illness is 
only covered for 12 months, starting from the date the injury happened or the clinical signs of 
the illness were first noticed. It then says that after this time all cover for the injury or illness 
will stop. When Mrs G renewed her policy in March 2020, the renewal documents set out 
what was excluded from the cover and says Excluding claims resulting from or connected to 
Tooth Extraction from 06/09/19. This exclusion was added after Mrs Gs dog had teeth 
extracted in 2018. And so she was only covered for extractions for 12 months from that date. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied Allianz made Mrs G aware of the exclusion in her policy.
On the claim form Mrs G sent to Allianz following the treatment in 2020, the vet recorded the 
illness or injury as Dental extractions. Allianz then asked the vet for more information about 
the 2018 and 2020 extractions, and whether the underlying cause was the same. In reply, 
the vet said the teeth had been extracted due to marked periodontal disease and that was 
likely to have been the same reason as in 2018. So, it was likely the teeth were extracted in 
2020 due to the same underlying condition that was present in 2018. As such, I think it was 
fair for Allianz to decline the claim on the basis that it resulted from or was connected to 
tooth extraction.
Mrs G says she was misled by Allianz when she called to renew her policy in early 2020. 
She said she specifically asked if dental treatment other than extractions would be covered 
and said she was led to believe they would be. So, she assumed shed be covered for the 
scale and polish her dog was scheduled to have in 2020. While that may be the case, the 
treatment her dog had in 2020 escalated from a scale and polish to an extraction of several 
teeth. Her policy had a specific exclusion for claims that resulted from or were connected to 
tooth extraction and so Im satisfied it was fair for Allianz to decline the claim on that basis. 
Mrs G was also upset by the service she received from Allianz. As our investigator said, this 
service cant investigate issues solely relating to complaint handling as its not a regulated 
activity thats within the scope of our jurisdiction. So, I cant comment on Allianzs delay in 
responding to Mrs Gs complaint. But I can comment on the other aspects of the service 
provided by Allianz. And theres no doubt Mrs G didnt get the standard of service she should 
have done. She was very upset the call handler told her the vet had contacted Allianz during 
the procedure. She says she was shocked and angry at the time, particularly when she 
found out it wasnt true. She says she suffers from anxiety and she had a panic attack, felt 
sick and couldnt sleep for a couple of days because of what the call handler had told her. 
Allianz has acknowledged and apologised for the poor service it provided. It said it would 
provide feedback and extra coaching to the individual concerned. It also offered Mrs G £150 
by way of an apology. Mrs G doesnt think that amount goes far enough to reflect the 
distress and upset caused. Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs G experienced and I 
respect her strong feelings on the matter. Allianz made a mistake and provided poor service. 
But its recognised that and has taken action to put things right. And, on balance, I think the 
amount of compensation its offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs G has said Allianz has paid her £100 but not the further £50 it offered. As I think £150 is 
a fair and reasonable offer, Allianz should pay Mrs G another £50 if its not already done so. 
My final decision
Allianz has offered to pay Mrs G £150 to settle the complaint and I think that amount is fair in 
all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Mrs G if it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman