DRN-4374620
The complaint
Mr S complains about the sale of his private medical insurance policy by Saga Services 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr S took out a private medical insurance policy through Saga, which included extended 
cancer cover. He made a claim to the insurer after sadly being diagnosed with cancer, and 
the insurer refused the claim. I understand that was because the two medications he needed 
werent licensed to be used in combination. 
Mr S complained to Saga about the sale of the policy. He said hed been led to believe that 
the extended cancer cover included cover for experimental treatment. 
Saga didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it hadnt led him to believe at the time of sale 
that unlicensed drugs would be covered. Unhappy with Sagas response, Mr S brought his 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Saga hadnt made it clear to Mr S how the 
extended cancer cover worked. He recommended Saga pay Mr S £300 compensation. 
Saga accepted our investigators recommendations, but Mr S didnt. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the policy terms and conditions. The policy covers conventional treatment and 
sets out what that means (amongst other things, it should be established as best medical 
practice and practised widely in the UK). The policy also says it will cover unproven 
treatment (which includes treatments which are not considered to be conventional), so long 
as the insurer agrees that it is a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment.  
Under the cover for cancer, the policy says that the insurer covers drug treatment of cancer 
where the drug has been licensed for use by the European Medicines Agency or the 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and is used according to that 
licence. 
Under the extended cancer cover, the policy says the above about drug treatment for 
cancer. It also says there is no cover for unproven drugs or drugs that are being used 
outside of their licence. However, if the insured has been invited to be a participant in a 
randomised clinical trial which has been approved by the appropriate ethics committee, they 
would be eligible to claim the NHS cash benefit (which is £100 a night spent in an NHS 
hospital). 
So, the insurer will consider unproven treatment under the general terms of the policy, 
however, cover for unproven drugs or drugs used outside their licence isnt available for 
cancer treatment. Though under the extended cancer cover, NHS cash benefit could be paid 
if the insured is on an approved clinical trial (which presumably might include trialling 
unproven drugs or drugs used outside their licence). 
Ive listened to the sales call to see what Mr S was told by Saga when the policy was sold. In 
selling the policy, Saga was required to make sure the information it provided to Mr S was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr S explained he had cover through his company scheme, but was leaving his employer 
and wanted a quote for individual cover. Hed already obtained a quote online through Saga. 
The adviser went through the various options. In terms of the cancer cover, the adviser 
explained there was either the standard cancer cover (which Mr S had opted for online) or 
the extended cancer cover. The adviser said the extended cover included experimental 
treatment. Mr S agreed to take out the extended cancer cover. 
I agree with our investigator that Saga didnt make it clear what the extended cancer cover 
provided. Sagas adviser wrongly led Mr S to think that only the extended cancer cover 
included experimental treatment - even though unproven treatment was potentially covered 
under the general terms of the policy. And the adviser didnt clarify that experimental drugs 
wouldnt be covered for cancer treatment. So I find that this aspect of the cover was mis-
sold. 
Ive also looked at the information Saga provided on its website at the time about extended 
cancer cover. This correctly said that drug treatments were subject to the terms of licence. 
However, it also said that there was cover for experimental cancer treatment (as long as the 
treatment was part of an ethically approved trial). This wasnt correct as the policy doesnt 
cover experimental cancer treatment as part of a trial, and only provides NHS cash benefit. I 
see this incorrect statement has since been removed from Sagas website.
As Ive found that the extended cancer cover was mis-sold, Ive thought about what Mr S 
would have done if Saga had given him the correct information about the cover. 
I dont think Mr Ss main reason for taking out the policy was for the extended cancer cover. 
There was no suggestion that this was particularly important to him and noticeably the quote 
hed obtained himself online didnt include the cover. So Im satisfied, on balance, that if 
Mr S had been told what the extended cancer cover provided, he would have still gone 
ahead with the main policy. However, he may not have paid extra for the extended cancer 
cover. 
When a financial business does something wrong, the aim of this Service is to place the 
consumer back in the position they would have been if not for the error (as far as possible). 
As our investigator has explained, that means wed usually require Saga to arrange for the 
extended cancer cover to be removed, and then refund the additional premium Mr S paid for 
this, plus interest. However, Mr S understandably doesnt want this cover removed, as hes 
since been diagnosed with cancer and may want to use it.
We can also consider the upset that Mr S was caused by the matter. Mr S has been going 
through a really difficult time, and I think the mis-sale caused him distress as he was 
expecting his claim to be covered. I also understand that when Mr S told Saga his claim had 
been turned down, he was initially led to believe that Saga thought he was right to appeal, 
but it then said it agreed with the insurer. Mr S has explained how upset he was by this. I think the compensation should be slightly higher than that recommended by our 
investigator. I therefore require Saga Services Limited to pay Mr S £400 compensation to 
recognise the loss of expectation he experienced as a result of the mis-sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Saga Services Limited to pay Mr S 
£400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman