DRN-3851332
The complaint
Mr J complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) refused to 
allow him to access its services by telephone. He complains that, as a result, he was unable 
to receive any financial advice on his investments.
What happened
Mr J says he has been a customer of HLAM for over 25 years. However in April 2021, 
following two warnings about the use of inappropriate language and threatening behaviour, 
HLAM informed Mr J that it would be limiting him to written contact only. It told him that he 
could provide instructions regarding his investments either via a secure message sent 
through its online servicing portal, or by sending a letter in the post.
In late July 2022 Mr J asked HLAM for its advice to construct an income generating portfolio 
from his pension investments. Although HLAM initially accepted that request, a few days 
later it told Mr J that it would be unable to proceed with providing advice due to its restriction 
on his telephone contact. It said that telephone communications were an essential part of its 
advice process.
Mr J complained to HLAM about its decision to restrict his telephone contact. But HLAM 
informed him that it still considered the ban to be appropriate, although it agreed to review 
the matter in a further six months. Mr J then made HLAM aware that he had been diagnosed 
with a medical condition that might make communication more challenging. HLAM 
considered what Mr J had said but told him that it still considered that telephone contact 
would be inappropriate. It reiterated its offer to review the situation in six months time.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Around the same time HLAM conducted a further review of 
his situation and sought assistance from its Vulnerable Clients Team. As a result of that 
review HLAM informed Mr J that, due to his medical condition, it would be prepared to 
reinstate telephone contact with him once it had put in place arrangements to better 
understand his communication needs. Mr J didnt accept that offer.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that it had 
been reasonable for HLAM to suspend its telephone contact with Mr J. And she thought that 
HLAM had acted fairly once it had been made aware of Mr Js medical condition. So she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr J and by HLAM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Generally it is reasonable for a business to decide to who, and on what basis, it is willing to 
offer its services. Here HLAM was offering an execution only service to Mr J for the 
management of his ISA and pension investments. It had no ongoing responsibility to provide 
Mr J with advice, or support, regarding those investments. But HLAM did offer an advice 
service that Mr J was able to request the use of and, I would assume, pay the required fee 
for its use.
HLAM has provided us with recordings of the telephone conversations its advisors had with 
Mr J in September 2020 and April 2021. HLAM concluded that Mr Js language and 
behaviour on those calls was unacceptable, and it wrote to him shortly after each call to 
request that he modified his behaviour on future calls. On each occasion Mr J responded by 
dismissing those requests. So HLAM informed Mr J that it was no longer willing to offer him 
telephone contact on his accounts.
It isnt for me to set the approach that HLAM should take when dealing with customers 
whose behaviour it considers to be inappropriate. But I share HLAMs concerns about Mr Js 
language and behaviour and I dont think the actions it took, in raising the matter with Mr J 
and later suspending telephone contact, were unreasonable. HLAM has a duty to its staff to 
ensure that they are protected from abusive and offensive language.
I appreciate the problems that Mr Js medical condition might present in dealing with difficult 
situations. And I have considered his testimony that HLAMs customer service was so poor 
that even the most placid of people would have shown their frustration. But I dont think that 
means HLAMs decision was unreasonable. HLAMs staff showed great patience and 
courtesy in dealing with Mr J. And, at the time the calls were made, HLAM wasnt aware of, 
and so couldnt make any reasonable adjustments for, Mr Js medical condition.
HLAM told Mr J that, since it wasnt able to deal with him by telephone, it couldnt offer him 
any advice on the investment of his pension savings. As Ive explained earlier, Mr J wasnt 
already paying for that service, for example though a regular charge taken from his pension 
investments, so HLAM was entirely free to decline Mr Js request for advice. But, as HLAM 
explained to Mr J, he could have sought advice from another financial advisor whilst still 
retaining his investments with HLAM.Since it became aware of Mr Js medical condition HLAM has further reviewed its 
relationship with Mr J. And it has told him that it is willing to make adjustments to its 
processes to allow him to resume telephone contact and, if still required, make use of its 
advice service. But HLAM quite reasonably wants to ensure that its staff remain protected 
from abusive behaviour so reserves the right to reimpose restrictions on Mr Js contact if it 
becomes necessary. I think that offer strikes a fair balance between HLAMs obligations to 
make reasonable adjustments for Mr J, and its need to provide its staff with a safe working 
environment.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr J. But I dont think that HLAM 
did anything wrong when it removed his ability to contact the firm by telephone. And I think 
that, once it became aware of Mr Js medical condition, HLAM has offered him a reasonable 
adjustment by agreeing to reinstate the telephone service. So I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman