DRN-4133153
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the price charged by Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds Bank) to renew their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B received a quote to renew their policy which they say was much higher than 
what theyd paid the previous year. Mr B says he called Lloyds Bank and, while they reduced 
his premium, this was at the expense of a higher excess. Mr B and Mrs B didnt feel this was 
fair, so they complained. Lloyds Bank responded and explained the price Mr B and Mrs B 
received in the recent renewal reflected changes theyd made following rules introduced by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They explained this meant existing customers 
couldnt be charged more than new customers. They explained they regularly update their 
view of changes in claims trends across different areas and different types of property. They 
said, in the case of Mr B and Mrs Bs policy, one of the main reasons for the price increase 
was that Lloyds Bank updated their view of the likelihood that their property could suffer 
damage from leaking water and fire. They also explained, Mr B and Mrs Bs buildings and 
contents insurance were previously sold as separate policies, but theyd then been migrated 
to a combined policy. Lloyds Bank explained they no longer sell the separate policies and so 
all customers had been migrated to a new policy. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs B. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt 
treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B and Mrs B will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr B and Mrs Bs premium for their 2021 renewal was £392.17. They were then 
quoted £657.72 which was reduced down to £466.05 after Mr B called Lloyds Bank. Mr B 
says this price was only offered on the basis he agreed to accept a higher excess. So, I do 
understand why Mr B and Mrs B are concerned about the increase in the premium. Lloyds 
Bank have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr B 
and Mrs Bs premiums were calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premium theyve 
been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
Lloyds Bank customers in Mr B and Mrs Bs position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
I acknowledge Mr B and Mrs B want a more detailed breakdown showing the reason for the 
increased premium. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Lloyds Banks 
risk model, but I can see one factor relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only 
and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The 
rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr B and Mrs B were offered their renewal 
by Lloyds Bank in 2022, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
I can see, when Mr B raised a query about the price, this led to a reduced price being 
offered. A business shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied Lloyds 
Bank havent done that here. The renewal invite for 2022 asks Mr B and Mrs B to get in 
contact if they have concerns as Lloyds Bank might be able to offer a discount. So, Im 
satisfied the price they offered here wasnt to correct a mistake theyd made with the original 
quote but was as a result of changing the excess.  
Lloyds Bank have also told us that Mr B and Mrs B paid below their target price and theyve 
told us how their target pricing model applies to Mr B and Mrs Bs policy. The target pricing 
model demonstrates whether Lloyds Bank treated Mr B and Mrs B fairly. It allows us to see 
whether what they were charged was in line with how theyve said they treated all of their 
policyholders  regardless of whether they engaged with them. Im afraid I cant share the 
detail of their model with Mr B and Mrs B as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds Banks 
business. But I hope it reassures Mr B and Mrs B to know Ive checked Lloyds Banks target 
price and what they quoted in 2022. And Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank didnt charge Mr B 
and Mrs B more than their target price for 2022. 
In addition to this, Ive seen the renewal letter sent to Mr B and Mrs B in 2022 and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did remind Mr B and Mrs B that they could shop around to see if they could get 
a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr B and Mrs B fairly, I think 
theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I note Mr B and Mrs B say, while Lloyds Bank offered a discount down to £466.05, this 
wasnt a like for like policy when compared to the previous year. They say the original quote 
for £657.72 provided the same excess so this is a like for like policy  and this is around 
68% higher than the previous year. Mr B and Mrs B say they havent made any claims in the 
previous year, and they question the basis on which Lloyds Bank claim their property is more 
likely to suffer damage from leaking water and fire. I do acknowledge Mr B and Mrs Bs points but, as mentioned above, it isnt our role to 
determine a price for the policy. I accept the initial quote is significantly higher than the price 
Mr B and Mrs B paid the previous year. Lloyds Bank say they no longer offer separate 
policies for buildings and contents  and instead they migrated all customers to combined 
policies. Theyve also explained, and demonstrated, how their risk ratings changed. I 
acknowledge Mr B and Mrs B may feel the price increase is unfair, but Lloyds Bank, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this, together with the ENBP, was a change across all 
their policies as they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers 
the same with the change and Mr B and Mrs B havent been treated differently or unfairly 
when they chose to change their approach.   
I understand Mr B and Mrs B will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the 2022 
renewal price led them to complain. But I hope my reasoning provides them with 
reassurance that they havent been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the 
same circumstances. I wish to reassure Mr B and Mrs B Ive read and considered everything 
theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman