DRN-3837489
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Estate Capital Financial 
Management Limited (Estate Capital) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan (PPP).
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her
assessment which she provided to both the Representative and Estate Capital. I dont intend 
to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr H, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Hs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 6 years and 4 months qualifying service between November 2010 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £5,768.05. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£9,640 or a reduced pension of £6,389 plus tax-free cash of £42,594;
In the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £7,894 or a reduced pension of £6,072 
plus tax-free cash of £40,535.
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £132,863.55. 
Mr H contacted Estate Capital for advice. He initially met one of its advisers in August 2017. 
A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the 
following information about Mr H:
He was aged 43 and in good health. His wife was aged 38 and in good health. They 
had two financially dependent children aged between 12 and 15;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£38,000. His wife was employed by the local council and paid gross annual income 
of about £12,000;
Their assets comprised their marital home valued at £210,000. Between them they 
had cash deposits of about £9,500 and Mr H had a portfolio bond valued at about 
£15,000;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £55,000 on their marital home 
which was due to be repaid in 2034. They didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary. His wife was a 
member of the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) and expected to 
receive an annal pension of about £10,000 from age 65. It was noted that Mr H also 
had a DB pension with a different employer which was estimated to provide an 
annual pension of £3,301 from age 60;
On a scale of 1 to 10 with 1 as No Risk and 10 as Highly Speculative he was 
initially categorised as a 5 but, following a discussion, this was upgraded to 6, or 
Balanced risk, because Mr H wanted to be more speculative with this sum of 
money ; and
He didnt have any plans for early retirement.In November 2017, Estate Capital issued its suitability report to Mr H recommending that he 
transfer the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a PPP and invest the value into 
its Estate Capital Balanced Alpha Portfolio to align with his Balanced risk profile. The 
costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as follows:
Initial charge
2% based on the transfer value paid to the PPP 
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
The ongoing charge was expected to be about 1.84%, broken down as follows:
0.75% ongoing adviser charge
0.35% platform charge
0.74% investment management charge (this was a weighted average based on 
investment across a number of underlying funds and would vary over time between 
0.5% and 2%)
Mr H accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed.
This complaint
During 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr H, complained to Estate Capital about the 
suitability of its pension transfer advice. In summary, the Representative stated that the 
pension transfer wasnt clearly demonstrated to be in Mr Hs best interests and had led to 
him losing valuable guarantees and secure income without good reason.
Estate Capital didnt uphold this complaint. It noted that the complaint received from the 
Representative was generic and provided no clear reasons why Mr H was complaining, and 
so in its final response letter it instead provided a general overview of the advice provided 
and why it believed it was suitable.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because she thought that Estate Capitals recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Hs best interests. She noted that the critical yield figures attached 
to the transaction indicated that there was limited potential for Mr H to be better off by 
transferring. She reasoned that Mr H didnt plan to retire earlier than age 65 and so, with an 
investment time horizon of over 20 years, there wasnt any urgency to transfer at that time, 
particularly since there was a lack of clarity about what his circumstances and retirement 
income needs would be so far into the future. She wasnt persuaded that it was suitable for 
Mr H to relinquish guaranteed income and instead take on the investment risks associated 
with the pension transfer to the PPP for what she considered to be generic objectives. She 
thought Mr H shouldve been advised to transfer to the BSPS2.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Estate Capital carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr H opted for the 
BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended 
that Estate Capital pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of H, accepted our investigators assessment. It provided 
some comments expressing its view about how the loss assessment calculation should be carried out.
Estate Capital disagreed with our investigators view and stated that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. It provided substantial comments in response, summarised as follows:
This Service was acting unfairly by encouraging former members of the BSPS to 
complain. It said our uphold rate for complaints about BSPS pension transfers was 
significantly higher than the FCAs findings of unsuitable advice in its thematic 
reviews on pension transfer advice  and so there is a disparity in approach between 
this Service and the FCA which it finds concerning;
This Service issues boiler plate decisions which dont reflect the actual 
circumstances of the complaint  so its concerned Mr Hs complaint hasnt been 
considered fairly on its own merits with the outcome already pre-determined;
In the case of the BSPS, members were forced to make a decision. This was an 
important point that the investigator had failed to properly consider. It thought that our 
investigator had also failed to properly consider the evidence including Mr Hs 
handwritten notes setting out his feelings and motivations for the pension transfer;
Our investigator had misinterpreted the relevance of the critical yield since there 
wasnt an option to retain benefits in the BSPS (which was the basis upon which the 
critical yield had been calculated). In any event, it didnt think the Transfer Value 
Analysis System (TVAS) and critical yield was a reliable benchmark for assessing 
suitability because it had since been replaced by the Appropriate Pension Transfer 
Analysis (APTA). It considered the discount rate of 4.5% to be achievable and that, 
from a financial viability point of view, Mr H wouldnt be worse off by transferring;
Our investigator had focused too much on the loss of guarantees and failed to 
adequately consider the benefits Mr H achieved by transferring. It said that his top 
three priorities were: Increase pension, Provide for spouse and dependents in the 
form of a lump sum and lump sum death benefits before retirement  and that this 
had been achieved by transferring.
There wasnt any evidence Mr H required guaranteed income. In its view, the only 
other viable option for Mr H was the PPF and that his objectives couldnt be met by 
that scheme. It said that the investigators view that the BSPS2 shouldve been 
recommended and used as the comparator scheme for redress was flawed because 
the BSPS2 didnt exist when it advised Mr H in November 2017;
Our investigator had failed to take into account Mr Hs other income sources in 
retirement which must be considered in assessing the suitability of the pension 
transfer advice and so her assessment was flawed;
It rejected our investigators view that it failed to exercise reasonable skill, care and 
diligence in its dealings with Mr H and so didnt consider it was obliged to carry out a 
loss assessment. Nevertheless, to bring this matter to close, it carried out a loss 
assessment in line with the FCAs FG17/9 methodology using third-party actuarial 
software. It carried out two loss assessments using the PPF and BSPS2 as 
comparator schemes on the basis Mr H took benefits at age 65 and PPP fund value 
of £148,309.38 as of 7 July 2021. It said that both loss assessments showed Mr H 
hadnt suffered a financial loss. But, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to pay him 
compensation of £1,000.Mr H rejected Estate Capitals compensation offer £1,000 and requested that this complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for review.
In May 2023, our investigator wrote to Estate Capital and the Representative to tell them that 
the FCA had developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under 
the BSPS consumer redress scheme, as set out in PS22/13. And that the FCA was 
encouraging businesses to use that calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint 
made by Mr H. Our investigator stated that in my final decision I may direct Estate Capital to 
use the FCAs calculator and invited any comments that the parties wanted to make by                     
8 June 2023. Neither party provided any additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, Id like to apologise to the parties for the length of time its taken to 
issue this final decision. To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under 
separate headings below.
FOSs approach to deciding complaints
Estate Capital has expressed its concerns about how we decide complaints. It says that we 
use letter templates. It also says that our approach to assessing complaints about BSPS 
pension transfers is flawed. This is because, in its view, we dont follow FCA rules and 
guidance which has resulted in inconsistencies in approach between the FCA and this 
Service when assessing the suitability of pension transfer advice. Its concerned our 
investigator didnt assess this complaint on its own facts and that the recommended uphold 
outcome was already pre-determined. 
I want to address Estate Capitals concerns. Firstly, I can assure it that we consider each 
case on an individual basis based on the available evidence. While some cases may appear 
to have similar circumstances, they can have different facts involved and so wont 
necessarily have the same findings or outcome. In the case of BSPS pension transfers, 
many members were facing the same, uncertain situation following the announcement by 
Tata Steel in March 2016 which resulted in a significant number being advised to transfer 
away. The background and circumstances were very similar for lots of members  and so its 
inevitable that our decisions on complaints about BSPS pension transfers will include similar 
content when setting out the background, circumstances, the reasons for the 
recommendation to transfer and when referencing relevant FCA rules and guidance. But the 
similarity in content on different decisions doesnt mean the outcome of this complaint was 
pre-determined as Estate Capital believes to be the case.
My role, as set out in DISP 3.6.1R, is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And when considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding 
circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence afresh including Estate Capitals 
substantial comments in response to our investigators assessment. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by 
the Representative, on behalf of Mr H, and Estate Capital. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Estate Capital was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its 
recommendation to Mr H. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the 
rules and consider the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in 
the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, Estate Capital was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr H. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Estate Capital provided its recommendation 
to Mr H were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Hs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Estate Capitals recommendation, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the FCAs rules and guidance applicable at the time it advised him in 
November 2017.
Mr Hs situation
The situation for Mr H wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr H. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr H had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Estate Capital.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr H to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr H, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So, while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr H still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2.  
In response to our investigators view, Estate Capital stated that its incorrect to consider the 
BSPS2 as an option for Mr H because it didnt exist at the time it advised him in                    
November 2017. I disagree. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded 
by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was being 
proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were higher than 
PPF benefits. The whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB scheme for former members of the BSPS which is why it was stated as an option in the 
Time to Choose communication. Notwithstanding this point, the FCA has stated that for 
redress purposes, the BSPS2 should be used as the comparator scheme unless theres 
evidence the member wouldve chosen the PPF. 
So I think its reasonable for me to decide this complaint on the basis that the BSPS2 was an 
option for Mr H. Based on his age, marital status, circumstances and that he didnt have any 
plans to retire earlier, its my view that he wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 
instead of the PPF because of the higher level of income it would pay at that age 65.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Estate Capital shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr H and to 
only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. 
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Estate Capital advised         
Mr H. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
(or other selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.
The TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. So it was useful for a 
client, like Mr H, that likely intended to use his safeguarded benefits towards achieving a 
minimum retirement income objective. The critical yield also gives an indication of the value 
offered by the transfer value and the ability to secure comparable benefits on the open 
market. So its also useful in that regard. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Estate Capital commented that the TVAS is no 
longer relevant after it was replaced by the APTA rules in October 2018  my interpretation 
of this is that Estate Capital is seeking to downplay the importance of the critical yield figures applicable to Mr Hs case. Whilst undeniably useful in demonstrating the amount needed to 
replicate scheme benefits, since the APTA rules didnt apply at the time of the advice 
complained about, theyre of little relevance in deciding this complaint.
Estate Capital calculated the following critical yield figures for Mr H on the basis he invested 
in the PPP it recommended:
Scheme At age 65 taking a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free cashAt age 65 taking a full pension only
BSPS 5.36% 6.76%
PPF 3.75% 4.12%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Estate Capital advised Mr H that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above.
The TVAS report was based on a total ongoing charge of 0.73%, broken down as follows:
0.35% pa platform charge
0.38% pa investment charge (lower than is stated in the suitability report)
Theres no reference in the TVAS report to the initial and ongoing advice charges.
It appears to me that the TVAS report didnt include the full range of charges applicable to 
the transaction. This is because the suitability report confirmed there was an initial charge of 
2% based on the transfer value paid to the PPP and a total ongoing charge of 1.84% (rather 
than 0.73%), broken down as follows:
0.75% pa ongoing adviser charge
0.35% pa platform charge
0.74% pa investment management charge 
If my understanding is correct, this means that the critical yield figures presented to Mr H 
were significantly understated and, therefore, misleading  this is because the invested 
transfer value would need to achieve a higher level of investment growth than was stated in 
the TVAS report to account for the initial adviser charge and higher ongoing charge. And so 
its likely Mr H made the decision from an uninformed position. This was a significant error.
Estate Capitals recommendation to Mr H was provided to him after the FCA gave 
instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount 
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. 
Businesses weren't required to refer to discount rates when giving pension transfer advice. 
But I consider that they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The discount 
rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across shares and bonds. The 
closest discount rate which I'm able to refer to and published by this Service for the period 
before October 2017 is 4.5% based on Mr H taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement 
age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year 
for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr H's 
Balanced risk profile and the investment timeframe to age 65. Based on these factors, I 
think the critical yield figures above meant that there was limited scope to match the benefits 
payable by the BSPS2, let alone exceed them  and this view ignores the fact that I think the 
critical yield figures above were understated, further undermining the case for a pension 
transfer.
There would usually be no point relinquishing safeguarded benefits in order to stand still, 
given the risk that the transfer might underperform. So, from an economic point of view, its 
questionable whether there was a reasonable prospect that Mr H would be financially better 
off by transferring on a like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme pension.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Hs recorded 
objectives.
Mr Hs objectives
In November 2017, Estate Capital issued its suitability report to Mr H. The report confirmed                  
his objectives as follows:
You explained at the [fact find] meeting that your objectives at this time are to ascertain 
the suitability of transferring your benefits accumulated in the above Final Salary scheme 
[BSPS] to a personal arrangement.
The suitability report included generic statements about why an individual might consider a 
pension transfer. But, beyond the excerpt above, it didnt detail Mr Hs specific objectives 
about what he was looking to achieve by contemplating a pension transfer at that time. Mr H 
completed a risk attitude questionnaire which presented a list of statements regarding his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS which he was instructed to list in order of priority. He 
indicated the following:
1. Increase pension
2. Provision for a spouses and dependents pension
3. Lump sum benefits upon death before retirement
4. Security of the pension fund
5. Tax free lump sums at retirement
6. Ability to retire early
In response to our investigators assessment, Estate Capital stated that Mr Hs top three 
priorities were those numbered (1) to (3) above but for (2) clarified he wanted to provide for 
his spouse and dependents in the form of a lump sum.
I think theres a lack of colour and detail in the contemporaneous evidence regarding Mr Hs 
specific circumstances. Im concerned that Estate Capital failed ascertain sufficient detail 
about Mr Hs specific objectives, as was required under COBS 9.2.2R. In assessing the 
suitability of the pension transfer, Ive considered each of these six generic objectives under 
separate headings below.Increase pension
Mr Hs primary objective was to increase his pension. The estimated revalued annual 
scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was £9,640 or a reduced pension of £6,389 
plus tax-free cash of £42,594. And in the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated 
revalued annual scheme pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £7,894 or a reduced 
pension of £6,072 plus tax-free cash of £40,535. As noted above, it was known at the time 
Estate Capital advised Mr H that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF but lower than the BSPS, so the projected income and tax-free cash figures for 
the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere in between these figures.
Estate Capital recorded that Mr H also had a DB pension with a different employer which 
was estimated to provide an annual pension of £3,301 from age 60 and was a member of 
Tata Steels DC pension scheme into which 16% of his gross annual salary was being 
invested. And hed also likely be entitled to a full State pension from age 67. In addition, his 
wife had also accrued benefits in the LGPS. So its clear Mr H and his wife wouldnt be solely 
reliant on the value of his BSPS benefits to support their standard of living in retirement. It 
was stated in the suitability report that because Mr H had other sources of retirement income 
he wanted to take a more speculative approach with the value of his BSPS benefits. It was 
for this reason his risk profile was altered so that he would take on a higher level of 
investment risk.
I think its fair to say that, when asked, most people would like to increase their pension 
income. So Im not surprised Mr H had this as a generic objective. Mr H had no plans to 
retire earlier than age 65. Im concerned that the suitability report doesnt make any 
reference to Mr Hs target retirement income from that age and how this would be met by the 
pension transfer and other sources. For example, theres no analysis or reference to Mr Hs 
likely fixed outgoings, discretionary spending plans and excess income for saving in 
retirement  and, therefore, what level of income would be required to meet this. In any 
event, being aged 43 at the time, I think it wouldve been very difficult to predict what Mr Hs 
retirement income need from age 65 was likely to be. 
It may well have been the case that, in conjunction with his other sources of retirement 
income, the projected income provided by the BSPS2 wouldve met Mr Hs retirement 
income need in any event. But this wasnt established by Estate Capital because it failed to 
adequately determine his target retirement income need and how this would be met. The 
lack of clarity on this point undermines the case for a pension transfer, particularly since 
Estate Capital advised him to invest on a higher risk basis so that he could adopt a more 
speculative approach.
In conclusion, I cannot see that there was any compelling reason for Mr H to transfer at that 
time and to take on all the risks associated with the transaction for a generic objective of 
increasing his pension. 
Death benefits
Mr Hs next most important objectives related to providing benefits to his wife and children 
on his death. Estate Capital has clarified that Mr H preferred to provide death benefits in a 
lump sum format.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr H withdrew benefits, the death 
benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to the simple 
fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr H was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Hs BSPS benefits would likely represent a moderate proportion of his 
retirement provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet 
his income and lump sum needs from age 65 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
So its questionable what level of benefit his wife and children would ultimately receive from 
the PPP. 
If Mr H wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that, according to the fact find document, he had 
disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay 
for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is 
generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr H given he was aged 43 
and recorded as being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that Estate Capital 
adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that 
Estate Capital quantified Mr Hs death lump sum need, over what term, how this might 
change over time, how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover 
quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr H had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £152,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. 
In addition, the value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan would be payable to his nominated 
beneficiaries, the value of which would increase over time with 16% of his earnings being 
invested into that scheme annually.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr H remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £152,000 would be paid on his death. I think its worth 
noting that at that time the only debt Mr H and his wife had was the repayment mortgage of 
£55,000 on their marital home. 
It appears that Mr H intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired, so I think its 
fair to say that there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefits would disappear in 
the foreseeable future. This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to 
transfer at that time to provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover 
already in place while Mr H remained employed by Tata Steel. 
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr H about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr H had no health 
issues at the time Estate Capital advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.Security of the pension fund
It was recorded that Mr H was concerned about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into 
the PPF. I accept that such concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and 
that it wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can 
understand why Mr H wanted to have control and security over his benefits by transferring to 
a PPP. 
That being said, as noted above, I think that by November 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling 
into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved 
and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most 
situations that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome for Mr H to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr H could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Estate Capitals recommendation, the PPFs financial position 
remained robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of 
the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had Estate Capital advised Mr H to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then 
deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 43. I think this 
is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr H had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any 
transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr H or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr H was reliant on Estate Capital to provide a 
fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this 
regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr H the features, risks and benefits of 
those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr H was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Estate Capital 
to provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. The suitability report 
doesnt deal with Mr Hs concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer to the 
PPF was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view a transfer to a 
PPP was the best course of action.In summary, I think that Estate Capital failed to adequately allay Mr Hs misapprehensions 
and that he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position 
regarding the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Ability to retire early
This was identified as the least important objective for Mr H. Thats understandable given 
that he didnt have any plans to retire earlier than age 65. But Ive noted that in the suitability 
report, Estate Capital portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than 
age 65 without penalty. It stated, The personal pension option will offer the flexibility to retire 
early without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than 65 and any resulting income would 
need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to Mr H so that he could 
understand accessing any of the available options early would likely lead to reduced 
retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65.
If properly informed, would Mr H have transferred anyway?
For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Hs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Estate Capitals advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr H, if 
placed in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of 
his safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr H, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Estate Capital, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr H might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns regarding 
the BSPS. However, bearing in mind that many members transferred to the BSPS2 even 
though such concerns were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment 
experience, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given Mr Hs 
reliance on Estate Capital, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for the 
BSPS2 had it advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Estate Capital to put Mr H, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr H wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. In response, Estate Capital stated 
that was an unfair comparison because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its 
advice and was merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead. It also said that there 
isnt any evidence Mr H has suffered a financial loss.
While some information on the benefits of BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that 
by November 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent, 
as Ive explained above. So I think Estate Capital shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a 
viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to consider the BSPS2 as a potential 
comparator scheme for redress purposes.There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Mr H didnt have any plans to retire earlier than age 65. Therefore, I think the BSPS2 
was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 
the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on 
the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. 
Estate Capital must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Estate Capital should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress rather than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO 
letter of 19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such 
software. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Representative and our 
Service upon completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Estate Capital should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr H accepts Estate Capitals offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Estate Capital may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss can been taken as tax-free cash and 75% taxed 
according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Estate Capital should pay Mr H £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Estate Capital 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed 
£160,000, I would additionally require Estate Capital Financial Management Limited to pay 
Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount 
already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Estate Capital Financial Management 
Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Estate Capital Financial Management Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H. 
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Estate Capital 
Financial Management Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr H can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman