DRN-2618694
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) didnt provide him 
with sufficient compensation following them giving incorrect information about a refund to his 
credit card account. 
What happened
Mr K says in October 2020 he was due a refund from an online retailer but as he was aware 
the destination of the refund was to be made to a closed credit card account with Barclays, 
he telephoned them to understand what would happen in those circumstances. Mr K says 
the member of staff at Barclays informed him the payment would be returned to the online 
retailer. Mr K says he made a number of telephone calls and online chats with the online 
retailer, who after some time explained that the refund had been accepted by Barclays. Mr K 
is unhappy he has spent a considerable amount of time and effort in contacting the online 
retailer when Barclays should have known, when he initially telephoned them, the monies 
had been accepted by them and used to reduce his indebtedness to them. When Mr K 
complained to Barclays about this, they offered him £50 as an apology and he feels this is 
not sufficient and is looking for substantially more from Barclays by way for compensation, 
for the inconvenience they have caused him.
Barclays have accepted their member of staff did give Mr K the wrong information about the 
refund to his credit card account and say they have apologised for this and offered £50 by 
way of compensation. Barclays feel this is sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response from Barclays and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that he could only look at the part of the complaint regarding the redress offered and not 
the issues regarding how Barclays dealt with his complaint thereafter, as this isnt something 
this service can consider. The investigator felt the amount offered by Barclays met with the 
level of compensation he would have expected and didnt feel Barclays needed to do 
anymore. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr K to have been told incorrect information 
regarding the receipt of the refund payment leading him to make unnecessary online chats, 
calls and emails to the online retailer. When looking at this complaint I have considered if 
Barclays have offered sufficient compensation for the inconvenience Mr K was put through 
as a result of this mistake. Like the investigator I wont be looking at the way Barclays 
handled Mr Ks complaint as this isnt something this service can consider. 
What happened here is Mr K was due a refund from an online retailer but as he was aware 
his account with Barclays had been closed, he telephoned Barclays to establish what would 
happen to the refund payment when it arrived. Mr K says he was told by a member of 
Barclays staff that in those circumstances, as the account was closed, the refund payment 
would be returned to the sender. Following this Mr K contacted the online retailer by way of 
online chats, phone calls and emails over a number of days, only to find that the payment 
had accepted by Barclays earlier that month and used to reduce his indebtedness with them. 
I understand that Mr K was put to some inconvenience here and Barclays have accepted the 
information they gave to him about the refund payment was incorrect. Mr K feels the level of  
compensation they offered him is derisory, given the time he has spent unnecessarily 
chasing the online retailer. Its worth mentioning that my role isnt to punish banks like 
Barclays for genuine mistakes but to make sure customers arent financially disadvantaged 
as a result, and I am satisfied Mr K wasnt. Thats not to say he wasnt put to some trouble 
as a result of what he was told, but Barclays have apologised for that and offered £50 by 
way of compensation, which is what I would expect to see here. From the information 
available to me, I can see the time Mr K spent dealing with this was mainly caused by the 
online retailers poor communication with him. The online retailer has accepted this and 
offered a modest sum by way of credit to his account by way of an apology. On balance, I 
am satisfied the level of redress Mr K has been offered by Barclays is adequate for the 
mistake they made.
It follows I wont be asking anymore of Barclays here, other than the £50 compensation they 
have already offered. 
Mr K has told us he is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement and therefore, should 
he decide to accept Barclays offer of compensation he should check with his insolvency 
practitioner where these monies should be paid to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman