DRN-3097655
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have
handled her subsidence claim, under her home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 September 2021 detailing my 
intention to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, I said;
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs M made a subsidence claim on her home insurance policy and LV appointed its 
contractor to investigate in March 2019. The cause of the subsidence was thought to 
be due to vegetation on her neighbours property.
Mrs M was unhappy with the service she was receiving and raised a complaint. LV 
provided its response in July 2019, giving Mrs M six months in which to refer it to our 
service. This wasnt done, so that complaint isnt being considered within this 
decision.
From July 2019, LV continued its attempts to contact Mrs Ms neighbour to get the 
trees removed. LV says it was unable to carry out further subsidence repairs until the 
cause of damage had been removed.
During this time Mrs M had concerns over the safety of her property and temporary 
repairs were made by LVs contractors.
Mrs Ms neighbours instructed a broker to act on their behalf and there were 
discussions regarding the extent and cause of the subsidence. LV felt it would need 
further evidence, so it opted to monitor Mrs Ms property from December 2019. LV 
wanted to collate enough evidence of movement and probable cause to put to the 
neighbour before taking any legal action.
In March 2020, the country entered a national lockdown due to Covid-19. This meant 
the monitoring of Mrs Ms property was put on hold until June 2020.
When monitoring recommenced, LV attempted to contact Mrs Ms neighbour, offering 
to pay for the removal of the vegetation involved, however the neighbour didnt 
cooperate.
For LV to begin legal proceedings and put the neighbour on notice, it said it needed 
strong evidence to show that movement was happening at Mrs Ms property. LV 
werent satisfied that it had the evidence to show this.
Mrs M raised a further complaint to LV about the time her claim was taking and its 
refusal to begin legal proceedings. LV provided its response in August 2020, 
recognising that the claim was taking time to resolve. However, it explained why this 
was, and it hadnt identified that it had caused unnecessary delays on the claim. 
Rather the claim was being delayed by the lack of assistance from the neighbour, 
and the insignificant movement readings that were being taken.
Mrs M was unhappy with LVs response and asked our service to investigate the 
complaint. Our investigator considered the evidence available to her and felt LVs 
actions regarding monitoring and contact with the neighbour were reasonable. 
However, she did identify a period of time where she felt LV couldve provided Mrs M 
with clearer updates and she felt the monitoring couldve started sooner. For this, our 
investigator recommended that LV compensate Mrs M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, especially at a time when Mrs M was experiencing difficult 
circumstances with the passing of her late husband.
LV accepted this recommendation, but Mrs M didnt, saying that LV had caused 
delays on the claim and wasted time with incorrect monitoring being done. She says 
the internal repairs that have been done will continue to need being done until the 
whole issue is resolved. Mrs M didnt agree that the amount of compensation being 
offered recognised the impact this claim has had on her and her family.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, this complaint is only considering events from July 2019 
up until the date of LVs last complaint response, 17 August 2020. I understand Mrs M has 
since raised a further complaint for events past that date, but my findings here are based on 
the above timeframe.
Subsidence claims by their very nature can be lengthy and drawn out, especially when an 
insurer is reliant on a third party to cooperate regarding the cause of the subsidence. 
Though, Id expect to see an insurer proactively moving the claim along and looking for 
alternative methods when it was clear that the issues werent going to be resolved as hoped.
Ive been provided with a lot of information to consider on this complaint, and Ill be 
commenting on the areas which Ive identified are relevant to Mrs Ms complaint. Id like to 
recognise the loss of Mrs Ms husband during this claim, and I can fully appreciate the 
impact this continues to have on her and her family.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded the cause of the subsidence at Mrs Ms property stems 
from her neighbours vegetation. LV has relied on its initial survey and the arborist report to 
start the engagement with the neighbour. However, when it became clear during the summer 
of 2019 that the neighbour wasnt co-operating, LV decided it would require further evidence 
if it was to convince the neighbour or pursue legal action. So, instructed level monitoring of 
the property. However, crack monitoring seems to be what was installed in December 2019.
It is known that the level monitoring is more of an effective way of measuring the movement 
and Mrs M has told us that LVs contractor informed her that the monitoring company had 
used the wrong type of monitoring. Ive also seen a letter from LVs contractor dated 26 
November 2019 informing Mrs M it will be instructing level monitoring. In light of the 
comments Im persuaded that level monitoring wouldve been more appropriate in the 
circumstances of this claim and I think an error was made when crack monitoring was 
installed. Im persuaded this has caused delays on this claim and will take this into 
consideration when considering the compensation due to Mrs M.By June 2020 the notes Ive seen show that LV were waiting for a final set of monitoring 
results. Dependent on these results, it would potentially be able to put the neighbour on 
notice, however the results were delayed due to the national lockdown.
Contractors were slightly delayed in continuing their works due to the lockdown, but from 
June, restrictions were beginning to ease, and Id expect LVs contractors to carry on with 
the monitoring of Mrs Ms property. And from the report Ive seen it appears another reading 
was taken in late June 2020. So, I dont think Covid-19 caused an avoidable delay. However, 
LV felt the results from the monitoring werent showing sufficient movement for it to evidence 
the impact of the neighbours trees.
Ive taken into account that the neighbour was wanting to provide their own report before 
agreeing to the removal of the vegetation, LV allowed time for this to be produced which I 
think is reasonable. LV also offered to cover the cost of the removal of the vegetation which I 
also consider to be a fair offer, and an attempt to get the third party on board. However, by 
the middle of August 2020 LV hadnt had a definitive answer from the third party or seen any 
report from them. I can see its next steps were to give the neighbour a 14 day notice to 
contact it and remove the trees within 30 days. It informed the neighbour that after this time 
its offer to cover the cost of the removal of the vegetation would be removed. LV said if the 
trees were not removed it would arrange a further site visit to take place to include trial pits 
and boreholes to be dug and a new survey to be undertaken, so that it could take legal 
action if required.
LV hasnt explained why these trial pits and boreholes were not considered earlier on the 
claim, and I think they shouldve been, especially as LV were aware the monitoring results 
were showing little movement. While the claim was still on hold whilst LV were awaiting a 
response from the third party, it knew it was dealing with an uncooperative neighbour and it 
would require the evidence to instruct legal proceedings or consider alternative ways to 
remedy the subsidence. So, I think it couldve been more proactive.
Its evident from the communications between LVs contractors and Mrs M that there were 
several occasions where she had to chase LV for updates on the claim and had been told 
incorrect information regarding the timeframes of the monitoring.
I do appreciate that any delays on the claim would be frustrating to Mrs M, especially when 
the house continued to need temporary repairs. However, without a lasting and effective 
repair being undertaken at the property to resolve the subsidence, any repair to internal 
damage would be temporary.
Its evident that the claim, in the timeframe on this complaint, has been very stressful for Mrs 
M, especially given her personal circumstances. My role here is to determine whether LV 
have acted unreasonably on the claim, and whats a result of its actions, and not whats a 
result of events outside of its control.
I do think that LV couldve been more proactive in updating Mrs M, especially given the 
stressful times she was dealing with. And I think that they couldve started level monitoring 
the property as soon as it became apparent that there might be an issue with moving the 
claim on due to the third party as well as doing the trial pits and bore holes sooner.
So, Im minded to direct LV to compensate Mrs M for these mistakes to a sum of £600, Im 
satisfied this reflects the inconvenience and distress caused by LV directly.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV had no further comments to make after it was sent my provisional decision. Mrs M didnt 
respond. As I have no further information to consider, Im satisfied my provisional decision 
detailing my intention to uphold the complaint is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I instruct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs M £600 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman