DRN-3468748
Complaint
Mr J has complained about the overdraft charges which Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited (trading as Cashplus) added to his account. Hes also complained that Cashplus 
unfairly failed to close his account when he requested this.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js concerns. She didnt think that Cashplus had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Cashplus charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
respondent firm charges for services is a commercial decision and this isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Cashplus charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr J if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his 
account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Mr J says it was unfair for Cashplus 
to charge him the fees it did here because it ought to have seen they were causing difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether Cashplus charged Mr J even though it knew he was in financial 
difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. 
Ive looked through the account statements provided. And I cant see that Cashplus ought to 
have been aware that Mr J might have been struggling. It isnt in dispute that Mr J did use 
this overdraft regularly. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mr J expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. And its clear that 
he had a credit balance sufficient to clear the £250 facility he had, on another Cashplus 
product on multiple occasions. So I dont think that he was trapped in his overdraft and Im 
satisfied he could have exited it had he wished to do so.   
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr J wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in the account management or the 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Cashplus to potential financial 
difficulty and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable not to have applied 
the charges here. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr J, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Cashplus to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And 
I dont think Cashplus charged Mr J in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it 
was unfair to do so. 
In reaching my conclusion Ive thought about what Mr J has said about the persistent debt 
rules in force since 2018. But this is in relation to credit cards rather than the, overdraft type, 
facility Mr J had with Cashplus. So the rules Mr J has referred to arent really relevant here. 
That isnt to say a firm doesnt have any obligations in relation to overdrafts. Of course, a 
firm is required to monitor a customers use of their facility and offer assistance where it is 
apparent a customer may be experiencing financial difficulty. However, for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont think that Cashplus ought to have suspected that Mr J was 
struggling based on the management of his accounts.
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr J has said about Cashplus failing to close his account. 
But its clear that the account wasnt closed because of the outstanding overdraft balance. 
Mr J will need to clear the balance  utilising a repayment plan if necessary  should he wish 
for the account to be closed.  
Overall and having thought about everything, I dont think that Cashplus unfairly charged    
Mr J in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty. This means that I dont think that Cashplus treated Mr J unfairly or that it 
needs to refund any interest, fees and charges. And Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr J  especially as it has taken sometime 
for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman