DRN-2655348
The complaint
Mr T complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision not to approve a loan for 
him.
What happened
Mr T received an email from NatWest inviting him for a financial health check. The check 
was conducted over the phone in February 2020. Mr T says it was suggested during this 
meeting he could consolidate his NatWest overdraft and credit card balances with a loan. 
Which he agreed to apply for. However, NatWest declined the application. 
Mr T complained because he said, if approved, the loan would have lowered his overall 
monthly repayment for these debts and had a lower interest rate. So he didnt think it was 
fair of NatWest to have refused the application, because they werent helping him and he 
says they have an obligation to support people in long term debt.
 
NatWest responded to Mr Ts complaint. They said they had carried out an affordability 
assessment as part of Mr Ts loan application and his circumstances didnt meet their criteria 
in order to be able to agree to the loan. 
Mr T wasnt happy with NatWests response. So he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He said, in summary, this service 
couldnt tell financial businesses who they should or shouldnt lend money to and he was 
satisfied, based on the information hed seen, that NatWest hadnt unfairly declined Mr Ts 
application for the loan. 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said he felt the bank were profiteering from 
his situation and that the investigator had simply accepted what NatWest had said without 
question.
 
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 17 
December 2020. Ive set out my provisional findings again here:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, its a matter for financial businesses to decide who theyre prepared to lend 
money to, how much and on what terms. So in Mr Ts case, it was for NatWest to decide 
whether they were happy to lend to him taking into account his financial circumstances and 
their obligations when lending. So Ive considered whether  in assessing Mr Ts application 
 NatWest followed their own process and treated Mr T fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
I can see why Mr Ts unhappy. NatWest have turned him down for a loan which he feels 
wouldve improved his financial situation by saving him money. But NatWest have an 
obligation to act responsibly when making lending decisions.  
NatWests invitation to undertake a financial health check wasnt a personal invitation to 
Mr T, its a service they offer all customers. So although I can see why Mr T might think 
NatWest shouldnt have sent him this if they couldnt actually offer him anything, I dont think 
they did anything wrong by offering this service to him the first place. Theres nothing in the 
invitation itself to suggest NatWest definitely could, or would, offer Mr T a loan or other 
financial product during a review, and NatWest couldnt have said  without considering in 
detail Mr Ts financial circumstances  whether it could or couldnt consolidate his existing 
NatWest (or other) debts.
 
Ive listened to the recording of the call during which the financial review was discussed.  
At the beginning of the call, NatWest said to Mr T that they could offer him a full financial 
review but that theyd noted Mr T had previously said he was mostly interested in 
consolidation. Mr T agreed thats what he was most interested in discussing. Based on these 
comments and the remaining content of the call, only a consolidation loan was discussed 
rather than a full review carried out. And based on the call, Im satisfied Mr T was happy with 
this approach at the time.
NatWest also told Mr T at the start of the call, if he proceeded to a full loan application, this 
would involve a full credit check. Mr Ts unhappy that the application seems to have affected 
his credit file. I dont have a copy of Mr Ts credit file but I assume by this he means a search 
of his credit file was carried out during the application. Thats a normal part of any credit 
application, so I dont think NatWest were wrong to have done so. And as I say, Mr T was 
told this would happen during the call and agreed to the application.  
During the call the adviser talks to Mr T about how much he was hoping to borrow, over what 
period and what repayment amount would be affordable. Initially Mr T asks to consolidate his 
NatWest overdraft and credit card as well as one other external credit card balance. But the 
initial checks indicate that this will likely be declined for affordability reasons.
At this point the adviser explains there is an option for Mr T to go ahead with the application 
despite these initial checks saying the application will likely be declined. But he says that he 
thinks an underwriter is unlikely to agree the loan if it includes any of Mr Ts external lending. 
The adviser says that normally they would advise people not to go ahead at this point but 
that it would be up to Mr T if he wanted to go ahead with the application and then appeal it 
so that its reviewed by an underwriter, rather than an automated decision. 
The adviser recalculated the loan to cover just the NatWest overdraft and credit card. But the 
initial checks using the lower amount indicated this would also likely be declined for 
affordability reasons. The adviser also runs initial checks for the minimum amount NatWest 
will lend - £1,000 - with monthly repayments of about £27 per month. The checks for this 
amount also indicate a full application would be declined for the same affordability reasons. 
Having discussed these initial checks, Mr T and the adviser agree to continue the application 
with the aim of consolidating just the NatWest overdraft and credit card. Having listened to 
the call, Im satisfied that Mr T was aware that the initial checks had shown his application 
was likely to be declined and he agreed to proceed with the application anyway. Im also 
satisfied that NatWest told Mr T that by proceeding with the full application, a full credit 
check would be carried out and this could affect his credit score. So I dont think NatWest 
has treated Mr T unfairly in this respect. 
The application itself was then considered by both NatWests automated system (which was 
a decline as initially indicated) and then a manual assessment by the banks underwriting 
team. Based on the notes, the application didnt meet NatWests lending criteria so the application was declined. Im satisfied that the application was assessed fairly based on 
what Ive seen.
Mr T says NatWest are in breach of government legislation by not agreeing the loan  which 
he says wouldve improved his financial situation. Financial businesses do have an 
obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. What this 
means in practice depends on each customers circumstances. This can include agreeing to 
consolidate existing debt for customers  but it doesnt mean financial businesses must do 
this. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied NatWest considered Mr Ts loan application fairly. And there 
wasnt an obligation on NatWest to agree this loan simply because it would cost him less in 
interest or lower his monthly payments. But they did have an obligation to ensure they only 
agreed further lending if they thought it was affordable and sustainably so. 
Having looked at the information provided, Im satisfied that their decision to decline Mr Ts 
loan application was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T responded to say he felt wed misunderstood his complaint. Ive summarised his points 
below:
The lending he wanted to consolidate had been originally taken out to support the 
establishment of a family business owned by his wife and daughter. But that this 
business has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
NatWest wont agree to reduce the interest rate on his credit card.
The advisor Mr T spoke to agreed a consolidation loan would be appropriate and 
later said he couldnt understand why the loan had been refused by the underwriter. 
One of the principal reasons for the complaint was for the bank to provide a statistical 
model to explain their decision. Because of his profession, Mr T feels sure hed be 
able to unpick it. 
Mr T said he continues to be contacted by the bank to ask him to have a financial 
health check which he finds inappropriate considering theyre not willing to offer him 
a reasonable way forward. 
NatWest didnt provide any comments in response to the provisional decision. But we did 
ask them for some further information in relation to what had happened since Mr T had 
made the loan application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr T feels weve misunderstood his complaint. Ive carefully considered everything 
hes said even if I havent commented on it here. We asked Mr T and NatWest for some 
further information to ensure wed understood everything. It came to light that since this 
complaint was referred to us in March 2020, more has happened and Mr T has made 
another complaint to the bank in October 2020. 
Ive listened to the call Mr T had with us in March 2020 and Im satisfied from the content of 
that call the issues he asked us to look into at that time were around the loan application as 
he was unhappy it had been declined. It seems that whats happened is, in the time the case has been with us, there have been 
further developments which Mr T is unhappy with. If there are other issues Mr T is now 
unhappy with  such as the interest rate on his credit card and the further calls hes been 
receiving from the bank - he might be able to refer those concerns to us separately. But in 
terms of this decision, it covers only Mr Ts concerns surrounding the loan application and 
NatWests decision not provide him with that loan. 
I appreciate how Mr Ts plans to repay the lending have been affected by the COVID-19 
pandemic but I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I have listened to the call during which the 
application took place. Having done so, Im satisfied that the adviser explained everything to 
Mr T and in particular that it was likely the application would not be accepted by the 
underwriters. Mr T also maintains that he wasnt made aware of the potential impact on his 
credit score. But again having listened to the call - I found it was explained to him that a 
credit check would be carried out and that this might affect his credit score. Although I 
wouldnt have expected the bank to be able to specify exactly how Mr Ts credit score would 
be affected. And I was satisfied that Mr T, at the time, understood and chose to go ahead 
with the application anyway. 
Mr T says he wasnt asking for further lending but initially he did ask NatWest to consolidate 
his NatWest credit card and overdraft as well as another credit card. In the end, the 
application only covered the amounts outstanding on the NatWest credit card and overdraft. 
But even though the application covered about the same amount Mr T already owed the 
bank, NatWests obligation was to make sure that what they agreed to lend Mr T in the form 
of a loan was affordable and they didnt think it was. And for the same reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision, I think they considered Mr Ts application fairly. 
Mr T said in a later conversation the adviser told him he couldnt understand why the loan 
had been declined. But, as Ive said, he told Mr T in the call where the application took place 
that he expected it would be declined and that they could appeal. So I dont think this means 
NatWest unfairly declined the application or that he said this later on makes a difference to 
Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T would like NatWest to provide him with a statistical model to explain their decision to 
decline his loan application. But this would be commercially sensitive information and 
NatWest arent obliged to provide Mr T with more detailed reasoning for their decision than 
they have already provided i.e. that he didnt meet their lending criteria because of the debt 
he holds elsewhere. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed by my decision and that there might be other issues hes 
experienced with NatWest that he feels remain outstanding, but Im satisfied that NatWest 
did not treat Mr T unfairly when they declined his loan application. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman