DRN-4068936
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mudhut Property Ltd set up his rent protection insurance policy 
incorrectly. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mr D took out a rent protection insurance policy online through a 
broker, Mudhut.
The information submitted by Mr D was passed to an administrator, who set up the 
policy with the insurer and sent the policy documents to Mr D.
In January 2022, Mr D was sent a renewal quote with details of his policy. He called 
the administrator and negotiated a reduction in price and the policy was renewed.
In March 2022, an issue arose with Mr Ds rental property, so he made a claim under 
his policy. This was rejected by the insurer on the basis that the policy was set up to 
cover Mr Ds home address, and there was no cover for his rental property. 
Mr D complains that Mudhut set his policy up incorrectly and that cover was always 
intended to be in place for his rental property. He wants his claim covered or a refund 
of premiums. But Mudhut says it simply passed on the information Mr D provided to 
the administrator. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our Service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. He 
was satisfied Mudhut hadnt done anything wrong or unfair. As Mr D disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill set these out below. 
This policy was sold on a non-advised basis  which means Mudhut didnt give Mr D 
any advice about the policy or whether it was suitable for his needs. From what I can 
see, Mr D simply inputted his details into Mudhuts website to get a quote and then 
buy the policy.
Ive reviewed the information available on Mudhuts website. Whilst Im mindful that 
the website may have changed since 2021, I can see that the quotation process asks 
for the property details including the address, property type, number of bedrooms, 
wall and roof construction, and the type of locks / alarms that the property has. It then 
asks for details of the type of policy required. 
Once a quotation is provided, Mudhuts website says, 
Your information will be submitted electronically to [the administrator] and therefore 
your signature is not required on the declaration or the direct debit mandate.
You are reminded you are responsible for the answers given in this application and 
that you must have taken reasonable care to answer all questions honestly, to the 
best of your knowledge, providing full answers and all relevant details. If you did not 
answer the questions honestly or to the best of your knowledge then your policy may 
be cancelled or your claim rejected or not fully paid. 
The quotation and application statement provided by Mudhut shows that the details 
inputted online were for Mr Ds home address and Mr D acknowledges the mistake 
may well have been his own. The information on Mudhuts website quoted above 
demonstrates to me that Mudhuts role is only to provide the quote and to pass the 
information over the policy administrator so I cant fairly conclude that Mudhut set up 
Mr Ds policy incorrectly. Nor can I fairly say that Mudhut wouldve had any way of 
knowing that Mr D had inputted the details incorrectly.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. I understand that hes paid for a 
policy that he hasnt received a benefit from, and this is no doubt wouldve impacted him. But 
I can only uphold a complaint where I find that a business has done something wrong or 
unfair. And I cant say that is the case here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman