DRN-2459557
The complaint
Mr L complaints that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) placed a default on his credit file.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr L leased a vehicle from Lex under an agreement scheduled to run for two 
years. In November 2019 after a short extension in the agreement, Lex sent Mr L three 
invoices totalling £1,173, made up of a rental extension, a charge for excess rental extension 
and charges relating to the condition of the vehicle. 
The vehicle was collected by Lex in mid-November and Mr L cancelled his direct debit. Lex 
say they didnt receive payment of the invoices despite reminders. So in May 2020, they took 
the decision to default the account and register it on his credit file. 
Mr L says he didnt receive the invoices. He complained to Lex about the default in 
July 2020. Lex said theyd written to Mr L several times at the address they have on record 
before marking the default. They didnt think it was wrong for them to have marked the 
default. 
As Mr L didnt agree with Lex and wanted the default removed, he referred his complaint to 
us. One of our investigators looked in to it. After reviewing the evidence provided by Mr L 
and Lex, our investigator felt Lex had brought the outstanding invoices to Mr Ls attention, 
but they hadnt been paid. So he said wouldnt be asking Lex to remove the default.
Lex accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr L didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies of the letters and invoices Lex sent Mr L in November and December 2019.  
All have been sent to the address Lex held at the time and is the same as the one we hold 
for him. I note that Mr L says he didnt receive any of them, but Im satisfied they were sent. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to hold Lex liable for them not being received  they have 
no control over the postal service.
The letters and invoices make clear to Mr L that there was an amount outstanding and what 
it was for. Those of 18 November 2019 and 27 November 2019 make it clear that 
information will be shared with the credit reference agencies which may have an impact on 
him obtaining credit elsewhere. They also wrote to him on 25 November to say theyd been 
told by Mr Ls bank that the direct debit had been cancelled, so they asked him to arrange 
an alternative payment for the invoices.
Mr L didnt respond to any of the letters sent in November and December 2019 but didnt 
contact them until July 2020  two months after the default had been registered  to 
complain. I note that he paid off the debt in November 2020.
I think Lex did what Id expect in terms of writing to Mr L with the invoices and explaining that 
failure to pay may affect his credit file. Mr L will have been aware too that the lease had been 
extended and it would be reasonable to assume further payments would be required as a 
result. While I think they could have made it clearer to Mr L that they were going to apply a 
default, Lex had explained that failure to make the payments would be recorded with a credit 
reference agency and this may affect his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. I dont think Lex 
have treated Mr L unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman