DRN-4111329
The complaint
Mr F says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL) shouldve taken steps to check his contact details. It didnt do this, and as a 
result he wasnt informed of issues surrounding his investment in the Woodford Equity 
Income Fund (WEIF). Mr F says that if he had been informed of the issues he wouldnt have 
made a loss. 
What happened
Mr F complained to HL in 2019. He said that he had invested just over £11,700 in the WEIF, 
but HL had never written to him or explained to him the issues the WEIF was experiencing, 
including its underperformance or the suspension. He said he was reliant on these 
communications as this investment had been made through his SIPP and wasnt something 
he was checking daily as he was intending to hold it long term. Mr F said he discovered the 
extent of the difficulties the WEIF was experiencing in October 2019 and felt that he had 
been let down by HL never having written to him. By then he was facing a loss of around a 
third of his investment, and as the fund was suspended, he couldnt do anything to mitigate 
his loss. He said it was also unacceptable that HL kept on promoting the fund right up until 
suspension. 
HL looked into Mr Fs complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. In summary it 
explained that Mr F had an execution only account, which meant that he wasnt given advice 
and HL did not manage his investments. It explained the performance of the WEIF and its 
commentary about it. And it said that while it acknowledged Mr Fs dissatisfaction at not 
receiving any emails, it was his responsibility to ensure his contact details were up to date. It 
didnt agree it ought to have sent him updates or marketing information about the WEIF via 
post, because that was not what he had stated was his preference for marketing 
communications. It emphasised that any commentary that wouldve been emailed to him 
was available on its website. 
Mr F didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Fs complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. She said that it was fair and 
reasonable for HL to have expected Mr F to have kept his contact details up to date, and she 
didnt think it would be fair to blame HL for the email address being incorrect. Furthermore, 
Mr F had set email as his preferred contact method, so it was fair and reasonable for HL to 
have used those details when communicating with him. She didnt think HL needed to try a 
different way of contacting him given that the communications it was intending on sending 
were marketing materials. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said HL had an obligation to check his emails were being received. 
It therefore shouldve done more when his emails were being returned.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im sorry I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
As Mr F knows, the investments he had on HLs platform were his responsibility  HL wasnt 
managing them for him, nor was it giving him advice about what to do with those 
investments. So he needed to ensure that he was aware of how investments were 
performing and, if he needed more information in order to decide whether to retain an 
investment or sell it, it was his responsibility to carry out that further research or seek the 
advice of a professional. This means that in my view, it wouldnt be fair to ask HL to 
compensate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result of investing in the WEIF because Im 
satisfied it was ultimately Mr Fs responsibility to decide, at the time, whether he wanted to 
remain invested and what information he needed to make that decision. 
Mr F believes that HL ought to compensate him because he wouldve been in a position to 
make better and more informed decisions about his holding in the WEIF had he received 
HLs commentary. But the commentary HL was sending out via email was marketing in 
nature. In other words, these were generic emails sent from HL about a range of 
investments, including the WEIF. These werent important emails specific to Mr F  for 
example about changes to the terms of his account or the level of fees that were payable.
This means that it was entirely acceptable for HL to simply send out such commentary in line 
with the preferences of individual customers  in Mr Fs case, he had specified email as his 
preference. And its important to be clear that, generally speaking, these email 
communications were being sent from bulk mailboxes  it may not have been visible to HL 
that his emails werent being received or were bouncing back. In the absence of any email 
communication from HL, only Mr F wouldve been in a position to identify the issue.
Ultimately I agree with the investigator that it was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure that his 
contact details were up to date and accurate  and so even if I thought HLs commentary 
may have been helpful information for Mr F to have received at the time, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair and reasonable to blame HL for his non-receipt of these emails. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman