DRN-3866032
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have settled a 
claim made under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Rs car was deemed a total loss, and so Admiral agreed to pay her the market value of 
the car to settle the claim.
Miss R says she told Admiral during a phone conversation that she would no longer need 
the cover because she had already insured a new car with a different insurance provider. 
Admiral sent Miss R a letter with a breakdown of the settlement figure. The letter showed 
that the market value it had settled the claim for was £3,654.50. It then said it was deducting 
the excess due from this amount (£560), and also the outstanding balance due to the hire 
purchase firm (£1336.50). It then said it would pay £1,758 to Miss R.
Admiral then later attempted to deduct the monthly premium from Miss Rs account. Admiral 
explained that it had made a mistake and not deducted the outstanding premiums due from 
the settlement figure it paid to Miss R  and the outstanding premiums still remain due. 
Admiral did however pay Miss R £100 to compensate her for the mistake it made. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Miss R but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
explained that the policy terms show that the full premium would be due in the event of a 
claim  so they didnt think it was unfair of Admiral to ask Miss R to repay this. However, the 
Investigator did agree that Admiral made a mistake in not deducting the outstanding 
premium from the settlement figure, however they thought that the £100 Admiral paid for this 
mistake was fair. 
Miss R didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary, she felt that she was paying the 
price for Admirals mistake. She says that it isnt fair that Admiral hasnt complied with its 
terms and conditions, but she is being asked to. 
Because Miss R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that this service is impartial between, and 
independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent 
either party, and we look at things independently without taking sides. 
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Miss Rs complaint. This 
means that the outstanding premium should be repaid to Admiral by Miss R. And I find the 
£100 Admiral has paid Miss R to compensate her for the mistake it made is fair. I appreciate 
this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss R  I am aware how strongly she feels 
about her complaint. However, I have explained the reasons for my outcome below. 
The terms and conditions of the policy state:
If a claim has been made during the period of insurance, you must pay the full premium and 
no refund will be given and 
If a claim is made and you have not paid [the premium] in full, we may deduct the 
outstanding premium from any claim settlement we make to you. We will not refund premium 
for changes made to your policy after a claim.
What this means is that, if a claim is made against the policy, as is the case here, the policy 
holder, Miss R in this case, would need to still pay the full years premium. The policy 
documents state that this amount may be deducted from the settlement figure. 
Given that the policy documents state that the full premium needs to be paid in the event of 
a claim, I dont think it is unfair of Admiral to ask Miss R to repay the outstanding premium.
It isnt in dispute in this case that Admiral made a mistake in not deducting the outstanding 
premiums from the settlement figure  as the policy documents state it might. But just 
because Admiral has made a mistake, this doesnt mean that I necessarily think it would be 
fair to say that the outstanding premiums due should be written off as Miss R has suggested. 
I appreciate that Miss R feels as though she is being made to pay for Admirals mistake, but 
the outstanding premiums were always due, its just that they werent deducted from the 
settlement figure like they should have been. So overall, Miss Rs financial position hasnt 
changed as a result of Admirals error.
I can understand why Miss R is frustrated by this  it would have been better for her if 
Admiral had simply paid her the actual settlement figure (with the outstanding premiums 
deducted)  but Admiral has paid Miss R £100 for the inconvenience here and I think that is 
fair. 
Based on everything Ive seen, while I accept that Admiral has made a mistake, I think the 
£100 it has paid to compensate Miss R for this is fair. Miss R should make arrangements to 
repay the outstanding premium due to Admiral. If Miss R cant make a payment for the full 
amount due, both parties will need to agree on an affordable repayment plan.
I have noted that Miss R has said she doesnt want the £100 that Admiral has paid to her. If 
she wants to return this money to Admiral, she can get in touch with Admiral direct to find out 
how to pay this back. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman