DRN-3042347
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance  from Santander Consumer Finance UK Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. After around 12 months Mr B experienced issues with the leather seats in 
the car, with the dye coming off as he wiped the seats with a leather cleaner. Mr B obtained 
a report from a leather expert who concluded that the premature wear to the leather was due 
to a manufacturing defect. Mr B complained to Santander and sought the costs of repairing 
the leather.
Santander rejected the complaint. It said the leather had been satisfactory at the point of 
supply. It offered to contribute 50% of the cost of repirs as a gesture of goodwill.
I issued a provisional decision and explained why I thought Santander should cover 100% of 
the repair costs. I said I was persuaded by the expert report which concluded that there was 
an inherent defect with the leather which caused it to wear prematurely, and which rendered 
the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further information they wanted me to consider. The 
matter has now been passed back to me for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr B and Santander said that they accepted my provisional decision. In the 
circumstances, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those which I set out in my 
provisional decision.  
Putting things right
 To put things right, Santander Consumer UK Plc must arrange for repairs to be carried out 
to the leather at no cost to Mr B. It should also refund Mr B the cost of the leather report and 
pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander must take the steps Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman