DRN-3315039
The complaint
Ms S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage or the insurer, I include the intermediary and others insofar as I
hold Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a hatchback car first registered in 2002. It used to
belong to Ms Ss late mother. The car became Ms Ss in 2016.
Ms S had the car insured on a policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary.
Advantage was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. The policy was
comprehensive, so it covered damage to the car. But that was subject to a policy excess of
£45.00, save for windscreen damage which was subject to an excess of £85.00.
The car passed an MOT in January 2021 with a recorded milage of about 102,000.
On 8 February 2021, Ms S reported that, while she had been driving the car, its bonnet had 
come open and damaged the bonnet, the windscreen and the roof. Ms S wanted to keep the
car. The next day, the insurer replaced the windscreen and Ms S paid the £85.00 excess.
But the insurer said on 17 February 2021 that the car was a total loss in category B (so that 
the car should never again appear on the road).
On 19 February 2021, Ms S and the insurer had a discussion about her withdrawing her 
claim and keeping the car. The insurer sent an email saying Ms S had withdrawn her claim 
and that her no claims discount wouldnt be affected.
On 25 February 2021, the intermediary wrote to Ms S giving notice to cancel the policy with
effect from 4 March 2021.
Ms S complained to the insurer that it should remove the category B marker.
By a final response dated late March 2021, the insurer said it hadnt explained that the
reason for the cancellation was that it wouldnt insure a category B car. The final response
said that the insurer was sending Ms S a cheque for £50.00 to compensate her for not
following the correct process. Ms S brought her complaint to us without delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as a complaint against the intermediary. She didnt
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the intermediary had
acted fairly. She said the intermediary had determined the cars market value was £875.00
and it would cost £1,798.60 to repair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms S 
and to Advantage on 18 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
Advantage and Ms S each agree that  before the accident  the car was in good 
condition and had a market value of £875.00.
Ms S had asked the insurer to reinstate her claim. And I couldnt  see any reason why
Advantage shouldnt have paid the claim.
Other insurers will continue to ask Ms S if an insurer has cancelled her insurance.
Subject to any further information from Ms S or from Advantage, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
to:
1. offer to pay Ms S £875.00 (without deduction of any further excess) if she makes 
her car (and all keys and relevant documents in her possession or power) 
available for Advantage to collect; and
2. add simple interest to any such payment at the yearly rate of 8% from 8 February 
2021 to the date of payment. If Advantage considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
3. write a letter to Ms S (which she may show to other insurers) saying that it 
incorrectly cancelled her policy and that it has removed any record of its 
cancellation from any internal or external databases on which it has recorded its 
cancellation; and
4. pay Ms S (insofar as it hasnt already) £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Ms S accepted the provisional decision. 
Advantage accepted the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that it would be able to re-
open the claim, but at present this would not represent a change in outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for an insurance company that has paid out on a claim to treat that
claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full,
usually from a third party. There may be a number of reasons why the insurance company
cant recover its outlay in full. So a fault claim doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was
responsible for causing the damage.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance
company or other regulated financial firm. Where its a complaint about the handling of a
claim under an insurance policy, we deal with the complaint as a complaint against theinsurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final decision, we
name that insurance company, but we dont identify any other party.
In Ms Ss case, the policy terms included the following definition:
We/Us/Our [the intermediary] on behalf of the Insurer identified on your Certificate of
Motor Insurance
And the certificate of motor insurance identified Advantage as the insurer. So the
intermediary was acting on behalf of Advantage. And Ive treated the complaint as a
complaint against Advantage. I hold Advantage responsible for the acts or omissions of the
intermediary in dealing with the claim and the complaint.
The policy schedule included the following:
You have 7 years of no claims discount. You do have protected no claims discount
So I find that Ms S did have a protected no claims discount. And I expect Advantage to treat
the no claims discount as protected in the event of a fault claim.
The policy terms about total loss said that Advantage might cancel the policy if Ms S didnt
get a replacement car within 30 days of a total loss payment. The policy terms about
cancellation said that Advantage would give seven days written notice of cancellation,
stating the reason.
Advantage and Ms S each agree that  before the accident  the car was in good condition
and had a market value of £875.00.
At such a value, any damage estimated at near to or more than £875.00 would lead the
insurer to treat the car as a total loss. When she realised that, Ms S complained that there
had been little point in paying more for comprehensive cover when she couldve paid less for
third party, fire and theft. But I consider that this was her choice and I dont hold Advantage
responsible for it.
In my view, Advantage realised after the accident that the damage wasnt just to the
windscreen and that it was highly likely to lead to a total loss. But I dont consider that 
Advantage shouldve anticipated that its engineer would say it was a total loss in category B 
so that there wasnt the option of Ms S keeping the car.
So I dont find it unreasonable that Advantage dealt separately and urgently with the
windscreen repair. That cost Ms S £85.00 and she didnt have the benefit of it for more than
a few weeks. But I dont find that Advantage did anything wrong in fixing the windscreen
before its engineer assessed the vehicle as a whole. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to
direct Advantage to reimburse Ms S the £85.00 (or the £40.00 difference between the
£85.00 excess and the £45.00 excess).
As it turned out, the engineer said the car was in category B. Ms S tried to get the insurer to
put it in a different category so she could repair it.
In my view, Advantage was responsible for giving Ms S some confusing and contradictory
information about her options. In particular, I find from Advantages email of 19 February
2021 and Ms Ss later reply, that Advantage had led Ms S to believe that if she withdrew her
claim, Advantage would not only maintain her no claims discount but would also remove the
category B marker. I find it likely that was why Ms S withdrew her claim.But the only engineering evidence is that the car was in category B. So I cant say that
Advantage treated Ms S unfairly by maintaining its record that the car was in that category.
Advantages email of 19 February 2021 and its email of 15 March 2021 said that Ms S had
withdrawn her claim but could reinstate it later.
But I find that  as early as 26 February 2021  Ms S asked the insurer to tell her its pre-
accident valuation. And on about 4 March 2021, Ms S emailed the insurer including the
following:
I would now ask the following from yourself representing [the intermediary]:
1. My claim is immediately reinstated today
2. The Category B is removed from my vehicle immediately as confirmed in our
previous discussions.
3. My insurance is reinstated immediately OR a reason for the cancellation is
recorded in a way it is not detrimental to any future cover
So Ms S was asking the insurer to reinstate her claim. And Advantage shouldve responded 
to that by reinstating her claim in March 2021. But it didnt do so, and I find that unfair and 
unreasonable.
I cant see any reason why Advantage shouldnt have paid the claim. But it didnt do so, and 
I find that unfair and unreasonable. Therefore, I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Advantage to offer to pay Ms S £875.00 (without deduction of any further excess) if she 
makes her car (and all keys and relevant documents in her possession or power) available 
for Advantage to collect.
As Advantage shouldve made payment to Ms S sooner, I find it fair to direct it to add interest 
at our usual rate from 8 February 2021 to the date of payment.
In my view, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to direct that the reinstatement and payment of
the claim wouldnt be a fault claim. But, as she had a protected no claims discount, the claim
shouldnt affect that discount. The fault claim may still affect insurance quotes for Ms S.
Advantage hasnt made a total loss payment. And its notice of cancellation dated late
February 2021 didnt state the reason for the cancellation. And neither did its confirmation of
cancellation dated 3 March 2021. So Advantage didnt follow its policy terms. So I find the 
cancellation unfair and unreasonable.
Ms S couldnt get alternative cover for her car. But I find that this was because it was
category B, rather than because Advantage hadnt followed its policy terms about
cancellation.
Nevertheless, other insurers will continue to ask Ms S if an insurer has cancelled her
insurance. and Ive found the cancellation unfair and unreasonable. So I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to write a letter to Ms S (which she may show to other 
insurers) saying that it incorrectly cancelled her policy and that it has removed any record of 
its cancellation from any internal or external databases on which it has recorded its 
cancellation.
I havent held Advantage responsible for putting the car in category B. But I have held
Advantage responsible for confusing and contradictory information, delay in paying the claim
and unfair cancellation. This was at a time when Ms Ss job had been made redundant. She
was understandably emotionally attached to her mothers old car.Advantage recognised its shortcomings only in relation to the cancellation process. I give it
credit for offering a cheque for £50.00 but I dont consider that this went far enough. Ms S
told us that she hadnt presented the cheque for payment. The claim and the complaint
remain unresolved over a year after the accident.
Weighing all this up, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage  in addition to a 
replacement cheque for £50.00 - to pay Ms S an additional £150.00 to make a total of 
£200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to offer to pay Ms S £875.00 (without 
deduction of any further excess) if she makes her car (and all keys and relevant documents 
in her possession or power) available for Advantage to collect.
As Advantage shouldve made payment to Ms S sooner, I find it fair to direct it to add interest 
at our usual rate from 8 February 2021 to the date of payment.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to write a letter to Ms S (which she may show 
to other insurers) saying that it incorrectly cancelled her policy and that it has removed any 
record of its cancellation from any internal or external databases on which it has recorded its 
cancellation.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage  in addition to a replacement cheque for 
£50.00 - to pay Ms S an additional £150.00 to make a total of £200.00 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Compared to Advantages final response, this final decision represents a change in outcome 
in Ms Ss favour. She will receive an increase in compensation and the benefit of a letter 
mitigating the effect of the cancellation. If she compiles with the condition of making her car 
available, then Ms S will also receive £875.00 plus interest in settlement of a claim that she 
asked to reinstate in March 2021, but which Advantage hadnt reinstated. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
1. offer to pay Ms S £875.00 (without deduction of any further excess) if she makes her 
car (and all keys and relevant documents in her possession or power) available for 
Advantage to collect; and
2. add simple interest to any such payment at the yearly rate of 8% from 8 February 
2021 to the date of payment. If Advantage considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how 
much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. write a letter to Ms S (which she may show to other insurers) saying that it incorrectly 
cancelled her policy and that it has removed any record of its cancellation from any 
internal or external databases on which it has recorded its cancellation; and
4. pay Ms S (insofar as it hasnt already) £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman