DRN-4368751
The complaint
Mr R complains about how AXA Insurance Limited (AXA), handled a claim under his home 
insurance policy for damage to his property from an escape of water. 
Any reference to AXA in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In March 2023 Mr R contacted AXA to say hed found standing water in the cellar at his 
property and to lodge a claim for the damage. AXA appointed a surveyor (B) to manage the 
claim and assess the damage. 
B inspected the property but concluded the cellar had been poorly converted into a room 
with damp evident and had not been tanked1. B also found damp evident but no apparent 
escape of water that had caused damage - the damage wasnt consistent with an escape of 
water.  B concluded the issue was rising damp, which wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr R provided an invoice from a contractor (MS) hed engaged to carry out repairs, totalling 
£8,700. AXA didnt think it clarified the cause of the leak, nor provide a breakdown of costs 
for the work carried out to trace and access the leak and fix it. All of which AXA said they 
needed to assess the claim accurately.
Mr R sent in an invoice from MS (£320) which described fixing the leak burst that caused the 
flooding. He also provided a separate letter setting out the contractors opinion on what had 
happened and the damage in addition to images and videos of the damage. The letter 
referred to almost knee-level flooding and disputed the need for the cellar to be tanked. It 
also referred to the time spent removing the water (13 hours) with Mr R and his family.
However, based on Bs opinion and from images of the cellar provided by Mr R, AXA didnt 
think there was any evidence of flooding in the cellar. Items on the cellar floor showed no 
signs of being in standing water and there were no tidemarks on the walls or concentrated 
damage around the escape of water point. The absence of tanking in the cellar meant it was 
inevitable the damage shown in the images would occur. B also noted rotten timber in 
several areas and there were areas on the external front wall of the property that indicated 
the presence of penetrating damp into the cellar (due to the absence of tanking). So, AXA 
declined the claim.
Mr R complained to AXA about the decline, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final 
response they referred to Bs conclusions and their view of the plumbers report. AXA said 
that if Mr R could provide the information they thought wasnt contained in the plumbers 
report, they would review it  although they couldnt confirm whether any such information 
would change their decision to decline the claim.
1 Tanking refers to the application of a liquid waterproof coating to the walls and floor of a cellar. It is used to 
treat damp walls by preventing water ingress, effectively making the walls permanently watertight.
Mr R then complained to this service. He said AXA should have accepted his claim under 
her policy. He wanted AXA to cover the cost of fixing the damage to his basement as well as 
the cost of engaging his plumber.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AXA didnt need to take any action. 
He was persuaded by AXAs view, based on Bs inspection, the damage wasnt caused by 
an escape of water, rather it was caused by damp. And AXA had fairly applied the exclusion 
for gradual operating cause to decline the claim.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said hed taken photographs and video of the flooding and it took 13 hours to 
clear the standing water from the cellar.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr R. 
Looking at the circumstances of the case, the key issue is AXA declining to cover the 
damage to the cellar of Mr Rs property, because they dont consider the damage is 
consistent with an escape of water as Mr R maintains. Mr R says the damage should be 
covered under the policy, based on what happened and the evidence and information 
provided from his contractor.
On the first issue, Ive considered the evidence and information available, including the 
report from B following their inspection. The key findings and conclusions are as follows:
In the cellar the room has been poorly converted with damp evidence and the area 
has not been tanked. The walls are plastered and painted. The floor is a concrete 
floor, and one half has a chipboard overlay which has rotted. There is pipe work 
exposed at high level and there is no moisture content around the pipe. The wall and 
board directly next to this would be wet, although there is no moisture evident. There 
is a lot of damp to the room. There are cardboard boxes and bookcases and books 
that are not affected by water.
The report concludes:
There is no evidence of any water damage to the room, this is suffering from damp 
issues due to not being tanked and poorly converted.
Content items have no evidence of any standing water to them ii.e boxes, 
bookshelves and books.
The property has been inspected, and the damage is not consistent with an escape 
of water. The room is suffering due to damp issues due to not being tanked and 
poorly converted.
Ive also looked at the information provided by Mr R, including invoices from his contractor 
(MS). Theres an invoice dated April 2023 which states they attended in March 2023. The 
invoice states:
Cutting out wall plaster board fixed the leak burst.
Water stopped leaking which caused flooding in cellar causing major damage.However, no more detail is provided on the exact cause of the leak. The reference to 
flooding in the cellar isnt consistent with Bs report and the conclusions they reached about 
the damage being inconsistent with an escape of water. 
The separate letter from MS includes the following statements:
Damp does not cause a flood up to mid-calf level
In terms of tanking, this is not a necessity, as majority of the houses are not tanked
It took 13 hours of scooping up, bucketing up, mopping the water together with 
myself, Mr R and his family.
Ive considered both views carefully, but on the balance of probabilities Im more persuaded 
by Bs opinion, which is drawn from their inspection shortly after Mr R reported the damage. 
In particular, that the observed damage isnt consistent with that expected after flooding of 
the nature described. So, Ive concluded the evidence doesnt show there was an escape of 
water that caused the damage. 
Ive also noted a subsequent invoice from MS (undated) which includes reference to work 
including tanking (£1,500) and damp proofing slurry (£310). Which suggests, consistent 
with Bs opinion, the cellar wasnt originally tanked and so susceptible to damp penetration.
In their final response, AXA refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy terms and 
conditions, specifically to the following:
Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Loss or damage caused gradually, or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of 
light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the 
normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
While this doesnt specifically refer to damp, I think it reasonable to interpret the exclusion to 
include damage caused by damp, and Bs report makes their opinion clear the damage has 
arisen gradually over time, and from the way the cellar was converted and used (including 
the absence of tanking).
On balance, Im persuaded by the views of AXA, based on B;s initial inspection report and 
their subsequent consideration of the evidence and information provided by Mr R, including 
that from MS.
When making a claim for loss or damage under an insurance policy, the onus is first on the 
policyholder to show the loss or damage falls under one of the policy insured perils. From 
the points above, Ive concluded Mr R hasnt demonstrated the damage was caused by an 
escape of water (an insured peril under the policy). While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive 
also concluded AXA acted fairly and reasonably to apply the gradual operating cause 
exclusion, as set out above, to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 Paul King
Ombudsman