DRN-3075310
The complaint
Mr C complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Car Insurances 
(Churchill) decision to treat his claim under his car insurance as a fault claim and their 
refusal to refund his excess. Mr C is also unhappy about the time taken to get an answer 
about recovery of costs from a third party.  
What happened
Mr C instructed a garage to apply paint protection film to his car. Mr C wasnt happy with the 
standard of work carried out and, having pointed this out to the garage, they agreed the work 
was poorly done and arranged to remove the film. When this work was completed, Mr C 
says he was asked to sign a disclaimer. Mr C says, while washing his car, he noticed marks 
around the areas where the film had been removed. Mr C then communicated with the 
garages insurer about the damage and, after being unhappy with their response, he made a 
claim against his policy for the damage to his car.  
Churchill carried out repairs to Mr Cs car and instructed solicitors to look into a claim against 
the garage. The solicitors explained to Mr C they couldnt take his claim forward as the 
disclaimer he had signed was the garages satisfaction contract. Mr C complained to 
Churchill.   
Churchill responded and said an excess was payable by Mr C as he made a claim under the 
policy. They explained, where they are able to recover their costs from a third party, they 
would refund the excess. They said, as Mr C made a claim for damage caused to his car by 
a garage, Churchill repaired his car under the policy and solicitors were instructed to try and 
reclaim their costs. Churchill said theyre unable to refund Mr Cs excess as the solicitors are 
unable to recover Churchills costs for paying Mr Cs claim  and this meant the claim will be 
classed as a fault claim.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She thought Churchill hadnt acted unfairly in 
refusing to refund the excess and hadnt delayed in dealing with the claim. Mr C disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Excess and fault claim
I understand Mr C is frustrated at having to pay an excess in circumstances where he feels 
he isnt responsible for the damage to his car, and for this to be treated as a fault claim. 
My starting point is Mr Cs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
defines Excess as the amount Mr C must pay towards any claim. Mr C has made a claim 
under his policy and his car repaired in line with the terms and conditions  this means an 
excess is payable. Churchill say they would refund the excess in circumstances where they 
are able to recover their costs from a third party. That hasnt happened here so I dont think 
its unreasonable for Churchill to refuse to refund the excess.  
I can see Mr C is concerned about how Churchill can treat this incident as a fault claim so I 
feel its important to clarify the meaning of the term fault. In the insurance industry, the term 
fault refers to a claim which has led to the insurer paying out rather than a determination on 
responsibility on the part of a policyholder. So, when Churchill explain to Mr C they have 
treated the matter as a fault claim, it meant they had paid out costs which they havent been 
able to recover. So, given that Churchill have paid out costs to repair Mr Cs car and there 
has been no recovery, its not unreasonable for them to treat this as a fault claim.  
  
I understand Mr C feels there are grounds for Churchill or their solicitors to pursue his claim 
for recovery of costs against the garage. Churchill say the solicitors dont feel the claim has 
reasonable prospects of success due to the document which has been signed by Mr C to 
confirm he is happy with the work completed. I note Mr C says the garage pressured him 
into signing the document in return for his car and a refund. And, he refers to the actions of 
the garage breaching the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I have carefully considered Mr Cs 
points but I think its important to stress my role isnt to determine the merits of pursuing a 
claim against the garage  its to look at the service provided by Churchill. I think Churchill 
take reasonable steps in appointing a solicitor once they receive the garages insurers 
version of events. The solicitors then weigh up the evidence and determine the claim doesnt 
have reasonable prospects of success and inform Churchill accordingly. While I do 
understand Mr C feels further arguments couldve been made, I cant say Churchill have 
acted unfairly in following the opinion of the solicitors.     
Time taken 
Mr C complains that it took from June 2019 to November 2020 for his claim against the 
garage to be investigated only then to be told the solicitor couldnt proceed with his claim. 
I can see Mr C reports the damage to Churchill on 1 July 2019 and a letter is sent to the 
garages insurer the following day. Mr C chases Churchill for an update a few weeks later 
and Churchill explain theyre still awaiting a response from the garages insurer. Churchill 
then call the garages insurer and they explain their case handler is on leave. Churchill then 
chase again in August by letter and phone. Churchill send an email to the garages insurer 
setting out their costs. The garages insurers then respond in November with their version of 
events. Churchill then make arrangements for their file to be passed to solicitors in 
December. The garages insurers then respond a few weeks later but Churchill take no 
further action as the file is with solicitors. In January 2020 the solicitors accept instructions to 
take the claim forward. 
System notes provided by Churchill show they call the solicitors in May for an update. The 
solicitors say they are waiting for a response from Mr C but they will be reviewing their file to 
determine prospects of success. Churchill receive a further update in August to say the 
solicitors are reviewing liability. Churchill then chase in October and the solicitors say they 
are still reviewing liability. 
The solicitors then call Churchill in November to say they cant take the claim forward as Mr 
C has signed a document to say hes happy with the garages work. The solicitors say they 
will contact Mr C and inform Churchill to close their file. Churchill then inform Mr C the claim 
doesnt have reasonable prospects of success. I understand the incident leading to Mr Cs claim was very upsetting for him so he was 
understandably anxious to have a resolution. I can see Churchill kept on top of things when 
the claim was being handled by them. Unfortunately, at the start, they didnt get any 
response from the garages insurer  and this was out of Churchills control. I think Churchill 
did then take appropriate steps to get things moving by appointing their solicitors to handle 
the claim. I understand Mr C feels things took too long but I cant comment on the handling 
of the claim by the solicitors. I can only look at Churchills involvement, and I cant see there 
were any delays by them. I can see Churchill do provide Mr C with details of how he can 
complain about the solicitors. This might be something which Mr C may wish to pursue but in 
relation to Churchills involvement, I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint in this matter as Churchill havent acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in the way they handled Mr Cs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman