DRN-3472029
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent him money on a
high interest loan which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mr M with a loan on 20 April 2016, for £7,900, repayable in monthly
instalments of around £278, over 60 months. Mr M repaid the loan in February 2017 by
taking out another loan elsewhere.
He complained to AvantCredit that he had been in a cycle of taking out payday loans, and
had become addicted to gambling in an effort to pay them off. He felt that the loan
repayments were unaffordable to him. AvantCredit said that the loan amount requested was
£7,900. Following its creditworthiness and affordability assessment, it concluded that this
amount was affordable and sustainable based on Mr Ms financial circumstances and offered
him a loan for that value. At no time did it offer a loan for an amount higher than it
considered Mr M could afford. To carry out its assessment, it considered Mr Ms application,
obtained independent confirmation of his income and obtained a credit report.
Mr Ms representative has sent in to us copies of Mr Ms bank statements from before and
after the date of the loan, and an up-to-date credit report.
Our adjudicator said that from AvantCredits assessment Mr M had a monthly income of
£2,000, and with the new loan repayments he wouldnt be able to afford this. She said that
while Avant Credit said the loan was for debt consolidation, it hadnt specified what debts
were to be repaid.
AvantCredit didnt agree, it said that prior to applying for the loan, Mr M had credit
commitments of two loans totalling £841 a month, about 42% of his income. The loan
enabled him to clear those loans and so reduce his credit commitments to just the
AvantCredit loan, about 15% of his income. He would also have been left with a disposable
monthly income of £462 which he could have used to put towards his defaulted loans, or his
bank overdraft.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst Avant Credit carried out proportionate 
checks I thought the credit report should have alerted it to carry out more checks. In the 
circumstances I didnt think it had made a fair lending decision.
Mr M accepted my provisional findings.
AvantCredit confirmed it had no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).It appears that AvantCredit was correct about Mr Ms credit commitments before taking out 
this loan. From its credit report I can see that he had two outstanding loans, one with 
around £6,300 outstanding repayable at £341. The other was a short term loan with about 
£568 outstanding repayable at £500 a month.
However effectively the short term loan only had one instalment remaining, and would 
normally be discounted. So I think it more realistic to say that Mr M had a credit 
commitment of £341 a month. From his bank statements I can see that he did pay those 
two loans off, but I question what use the loan was to him if it extended a £500 commitment 
for five years and replaced a loan for a £341 a month payment with a £298 payment. 
However he would have had £1,000 balance from the loan and its not clear why he needed 
that.
It's clear from the credit report that Mr M had a current account that was over £1,980 
overdrawn (with a limit of £2,000). This had been overdrawn for at least the eight months 
the report covered. In the two months prior to taking out the loan, it had increased from 
£655 overdrawn. He had also clearly defaulted on loans in the past and had had a number 
of short term loans. I wouldnt expect AvantCredit to take account of any loans that had 
been paid off, but it certainly looks like Mr M had been keeping within his overdraft by using 
short term loans.
I think from the information shown on the credit report about Mr Ms overdraft, this should 
have alerted AvantCredit to carry out a more detailed assessment of Mr Ms finances. This 
could for example, have been by asking for bank statements. In considering Mr Ms bank 
statements for the two months before the loan I can see that he had a considerable number 
of entries for betting. These amounted to over £1,300 for February to March and over 
£1,700 for March to April 2016. These gambling transactions continued after the loan was 
issued.
This accords with Mr Ms statement that he was addicted to gambling. I think if 
AvantCredit had carried out a more thorough assessment of Mr Ms finances it wouldnt 
have issued the loan, as with the level of spending on gambling it would have been clearly 
unaffordable.
So, whilst I think AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks I think the credit report should
have alerted it to carry out more checks. In the circumstances I dont think it made a fair
lending decision.
As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, those findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr M has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount of £7,900.
If Mr M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove, as appropriate, any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman