DRN-2390208
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked his account, without telling him why it 
had done so or when it would be re-opened.
What happened
In November 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Ms account, while it carried out a review. Mr M 
complained. He said he needed the money in his account to pay his rent and asked several 
times when Revolut would unblock his account. Whenever Revolut responded to Mr M, it 
said the account was still under review and that it couldnt give him a timeframe as to when 
the review would be complete.
On 30 December 19, Revolut issued its final response to Mr M. It said it couldnt give him 
any further details but that it had requested for his review to be prioritised, and said it would 
be in touch with an update when it could.
Mr M remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service on receipt of Revoluts 
final response. Revolut unblocked Mr Ms account on 23 March 2020, in order to allow Mr M 
access to his funds. It then closed Mr Ms account, although Mr M has confirmed his 
complaint relates solely to the block and the hardship he says he experienced during the 
block, and not the account closure. 
When our investigator looked at the complaint, she recognised the impact the block had had 
on Mr M, but said Revolut had acted fairly in blocking his account. And that she was satisfied 
it had completed its review in a reasonable timeframe. Because of that, she didnt uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked and reviewed Mr Ms account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M to have his account blocked without knowing why, but 
banks are entitled and obliged to block accounts under certain circumstances, and having 
reviewed the evidence provided to me, Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ms account.
Having said that, I would expect to see a bank complete its review promptly and not cause 
any unnecessary delays. And Mr M has said the block took so long that he couldnt pay his 
rent. And that he couldve invested the funds in his account or earned interest on them. So, 
Ive looked at the action Revolut took while it reviewed Mr Ms account, to see if it caused 
any delays that in turn contributed to the distress and inconvenience Mr M says he 
experienced.
Reviewing an account in line with a banks terms and conditions can take time and require 
careful consideration. Mr Ms account was blocked for just shy of four months, from 30 
November 2019 to 23 March 2020. 
Thats a considerable length of time, so Ive thought carefully about whether or not Revolut 
ought to have completed its review more quickly. Having looked at the evidence its provided 
to support its decision to keep the account blocked for so long, my view is that it was 
reasonable for Revolut to keep Mr Ms account blocked during that time. And Im satisfied it 
took reasonable steps to complete its review during the block in an acceptable timeframe.
I recognise Mr M was frustrated and was denied access to a significant sum of money. But 
because Im satisfied Revolut acted appropriately while it carried out the review, and that it 
was reasonable for Revolut to maintain the block until 23 March 2020, I cant reasonably say 
it acted unfairly.
So, having looked at all of the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award 
against Revolut, given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures or its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ms account. So, Im not 
going to ask it to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused. 
Or for any financial loss he may have suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman