DRN-3365547
The complaint
Mr T says Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) is responsible for his trading account being 
hacked/compromised and for trading losses that resulted from that. He also says the partial 
closure facility on Plus500s platform was unclear, misleading and was set up to cause 
clients a loss on their first usage attempt, as he experienced, because it gives the 
impression that the specified smaller size will be closed but it is the larger remainder that is 
then closed. He seeks compensation for his losses in both respects, and for personal and 
health related consequences of those losses.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly said:
Available evidence shows that Mr T used his Smart-Phone for trading in the Plus500 
account; he bought a new Smart-Phone on 24 January 2020 (SP1) and used that 
until he upgraded to a newer version on 2 April 2021 (SP2) and then, on 10 April 
2021, linked SP2 to his trading account; these were the only two phones he had 
during the period he has complained about; part of his concern was/is confirmation 
by Plus500 that a third phone was linked to his account; this turned out not to be the 
case; instead, SP2 had been mistaken for being two different devices because of a 
difference in Device Identifiers but further insight showed that it was the same 
device/SP2. 
Plus500s system log shows that there was no overlapping of devices during the 
duration of Mr Ts account, which means nothing other than his device had access to 
the account. This matches his testimony that he never shared his account details 
with anyone. Term 2.10.3 of the terms for the account made all transactions in the 
account his responsibility.
Mr T highlighted shadow figures he noticed on the platforms app and considered this 
an indication of hacking. However, Plus500 was unable to replicate this at its end, in 
order to investigate. It asked Mr T to provide video evidence of it but he was not able 
to do so. It therefore could not look further into this issue and it had already 
established that there was no overlapping of devices accessing the account.
In response to Mr Ts concerns of 9 July 2021 Plus500 was meant to place 
restrictions on his account for his protection, but it did not do this until 13 July 2021. 
However, there is no evidence of unusual trading or that another device accessed 
the account during the period between both dates. Plus500 showed that it took his 
concerns seriously by placing the restrictions.
Mr T is unable to refer to any specific trades that he disputes and/or any other 
specific ways in which his account has been tampered with. His main argument is 
that prior to February 2021 his trading was very successful and thereafter he has 
been making more losses than gains, which conflicts with his previous success rate. 
However, this is insufficient to establish the allegations he has made, especially in 
the face of evidence weighing against those allegations.
Mr T referred to evidence from his phone manufacturer that he says shows his app 
was compromised, but the manufacturers report reflects what he told them about his 
suspicions, it does not reflect the outcome of an independent technical examination. 
There is evidence of sufficient information in Plus500s website (on the Frequently 
Asked Questions page) about how to close positions and how to do so on a partial 
basis. A demonstration video is provided within the website, and Mr T had access to 
a demo account to practice usage of the trading platform without risk of loss. Overall, 
the partial closure facility was clearly explained and was not misleading.
Mr T does not appear to have accepted this outcome, so the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons. On balance, and in a nutshell, Mr T has not established a specific financial 
loss resulting from the account hacking he alleges; the hacking that he alleges is not 
supported by available evidence; and accessible information about the workings of the 
partial closure facility shows that the facility was not misleading and that guidance on how to 
use it was available to him.
With regards to the hacking allegation, I consider it quite pivotal that evidence of an 
identifiable financial loss appears to be lacking in this case. I have noted Mr Ts argument 
about his trading success rate prior to the period of alleged hacking in 2021, in contrast with 
his trading at (and/or after) that period. However, it is an argument that falls notably short of 
showing a financial loss that is linked to his allegation.
Trading losses, in isolation, do not show that his account was compromised as he alleges. I 
do not need to speculate on the different reasons, unrelated to the notion of a compromised 
trading account, why his trading could have begun to produce more losses than gains in the 
period he has mentioned. Instead, and at least, it was/is for Mr T to show that more  of 
even something other  than the wrong trading decisions led to specific losses, and to do 
this with regards to specific trades. This ought reasonably to have been a relatively 
straightforward affair, in which I would expect the identification of such individually disputed 
trades/losses, which could then be investigated. However, it appears that no such 
identification was presented to Plus500 or to the investigator, and it appears that Mr T has 
not been able to identify specific disputed trades/losses.
The next point to note is about the available technical evidence from Plus500s investigation 
into the matter. I endorse and incorporate the investigators findings on this evidence, as 
summarised above. The investigation unearthed no technical signs of Mr Ts account being 
hacked or compromised, and a plausible explanation appears to have been given for the 
device identification issue that he considered to be an indication of hacking. That explanation 
suggests there was no such hacking. Unfortunately, the screen shadows he was concerned 
about could not be replicated by Plus500 so they could not be investigated. I do not consider 
Plus500 to be at fault in this respect. It could not reasonably have been expected to look into 
something that it could not see at its end. Like the investigator, I too have taken the view that what Mr T regards as an important report 
from the phone manufacturer is, in the main, a statement of the manufacturers general 
opinion based on what he reported to them  as opposed to being the result of a meaningful 
investigation conducted by them into the specific account hacking allegation. 
Without evidence of the alleged hacking and without evidence of a financial loss connected 
to the alleged hacking, I am not in a position to fairly uphold Mr Ts complaint about this 
issue, and I do not uphold his complaint about this issue.
As the investigator said, the partial closure facility on the platform was clearly explained on 
Plus500s website. Furthermore, it worked in a relatively simple manner, whereby an 
account holder entered the size of the portion of an open trade/position to be closed and that 
would be the portion closed, upon submission and execution of the order. The demo account 
offered an opportunity to practice usage of the platform and trading within it, so it is not 
unreasonable to expect that Mr T should have used this account to familiarise himself with 
the partial closure facility before applying it to his live/real trades.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman