Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) contractors damaged his dining table 
when his subsidence claim repairs were completed. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both complaint parties. In summary:
Following a subsidence claim, UKIs contractors completed repairs in Mr Hs
conservatory.
During the repairs, Mr H said UKIs contactors repeatedly took his dining table from
his conservatory outside and it was left unprotected which caused permanent
damage. Mr H complained.
UKI didnt accept the complaint. It said its contractors had provided a picture from
April 2021 showing the table indoors. Theyve also seen several pictures of Mr  Hs
garden and havent seen that the table is shown to be outside. UKI say that  their
contractors policy is that if any indoor furniture is taken outside, it was protected and
returned at the end of the day.
A complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator reviewed and supported the
complaint. She said extensive works to the conservatory meant there was at times no
secure flooring for the table to sit on and because it was too big to go through doors
leading to the kitchen she felt the only option was for the contractors to take the table
outside. She felt on balance that it was exposed to the outside elements for prolonged
periods and this was likely to have caused the damage.
UKI responded, disagreeing with the investigators opinion. It said the photos from
July and August 2021 confirm its contractors version of events that when the table
was taken outside, it was protected. The flooring tiling was completed in July 2021 
the time of Mr Hs July photograph. And the table spent only one night outside,
protected, while the flooring was settling. It said the photo of the table in the
conservatory pre damage shows a table that is a different shape to the photo of the
damaged table. It requested the case be referred to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-3502411Page 2 of 3reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a photo of a covered table in his conservatory, taken prior to the damage. 
Unfortunately, this photo doesnt show the condition of the table. But I agree with the 
investigator here  I wouldnt expect him to have taken photos of his belongings in case he 
needed to evidence the condition of the table later. 
The contractors photo of April 2021 appears to show a table inside the conservatory which 
suggests work was being undertaken while the table was in situ. It said if furniture is taken 
outside while repairs are being undertaken, it was returned each night. This is contrary to 
UKI where it mentioned one occasion when the table was left outside overnight  in July 
2021 when the flooring was being laid  which is supported by Mr Hs July 2021 photo 
showing an object outside under green protective sheet in daytime. There is no table in the 
conservatory at this point, so I think its reasonable to assume this was the dining table.
Further, Mr H has provided a second photo from August 2021, when repairs were being 
undertaken, showing the same image as the July 2021 - the table outside covered in the 
green protective sheet in the daytime. So, the table was outside on more than one occasion.
The contractors say a restoration company said the table had been subject to substantial 
water damage and didnt mention varying seasonal weather conditions. I dont have a copy 
of this report or how the assessment took place - desk top review etc. The damage is water 
damage and Mr H said this damage occurred when the table was outside. Because we know 
the table was outside and subjected to the elements, on balance, I think this water damage 
is as a result of the table being left outside.
Because I think the table was outside at periods of time and subject to the elements and this 
caused the damage to the table, Ive considered whether UKIs contractors acted reasonably 
when carrying out repairs. Could they have avoided the table being damaged while carrying 
out repairs?
To carry out a lasting and effective repair, Im persuaded that the contractors had no choice 
but to place the table outside. I dont doubt that they tried their best to protect the table when 
it was outside. But while carrying out repairs, an item of furniture was damaged. I dont think 
its fair to put Mr H in a worse position than he was prior to the subsidence claim.
Putting things right
So, my final decision is that I support Mr Hs complaint and order U K Insurance Limited to 
provide a cash settlement to Mr H for him to buy a like for like replacement table.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.Page 3 of 3Angela Casey
Ombudsman