DRN-1925033
The complaint
Mrs P says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs P says the lending 
was unaffordable for her and led to repeat borrowing and a cycle of debt. This resulted in a 
worsening of Mrs Ps financial situation. 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected credit loans Morses provided to Mrs P between        
December 2015 and October 2018. Mrs Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly
InstalmentsAmount Repayment
1 11/12/2015 16/06/2016 33 £200.00 £10.00
2 22/07/2016 29/08/2017 33 £200.00 £10.00
3 27/09/2017 05/10/2018 33 £100.00   £5.00
4 05/10/2018 03/01/2020 33 £100.00   £5.00
Our adjudicator reviewed Mrs Ps complaint and thought that loans three and four should be 
upheld. The adjudicator said this because they thought the overall pattern of Mrs Ps 
borrowing indicated she was reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming 
unsustainable. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said the lending was over a period of nearly three 
years and it had confirmed Mrs Ps income for loans three and four. It also said that the 
repayments for loans three and four were reduced to reflect Mrs Ps reduction in income. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint about loans one and two. Mrs P hasnt 
provided any further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any 
further findings on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mrs P, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Ps case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan three. I say this because:
Morses has said there was nothing in the pattern of Mrs Ps borrowing which would 
suggest it was unsustainable for her. But I disagree. When Mrs P applied for loan 
three, she had now been borrowing from Morses for around 19 months (excluding 
the periods between the lending), so I think Morses should have realised Mrs P was not managing to repay her loans sustainably and it was more likely she was using the 
lending to make ends meet. 
At loan three  and four  Mrs P did borrow less than the earlier two loans and 
Morses has said her repayments per week had reduced to reflect the reduction in her 
income. But I think this misses the point that the repayments would have made up a 
similar proportion of her income which at loan three had reduced from £260 per week 
at loan one to £163 at loan three. Morses has said there was a technical error in 
recording Mrs Ps income and expenditure at loan four (£140 and nil respectively) so 
theres no clear picture of Mrs Ps financial circumstances. But I do think its clear that 
Mrs Ps financial circumstances were not improving. 
Morses has referred to the gap in lending of four weeks between loan two being 
repaid and loan three being taken. But bearing in mind the length of time Mrs P had 
been borrowing from Morses, I dont think this was a sufficient enough amount of 
time for it to have been reasonable for Morses to have believed that Mrs P had 
overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that had caused her to take this 
type of credit. 
I also note that loan four was taken out the same day that loan three was repaid so 
Morses ought to have known it was unlikely Mrs P was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan four 
was taken out nearly 34 months after Mrs Ps first. Mrs P had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect; service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs P lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan three 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Mrs P borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint about loans two and three. Morses should put things 
right as laid out below  making sure to provide Mrs P with a breakdown of its calculations. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs P paid on loans three and four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans three and four should be removed 
from Mrs Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Morses Finance Limited must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Morses Finance Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman