DRN-3709316
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society defaulted his account when he wasnt able 
to make payments towards it for six months.
What happened
Mr N contacted Nationwide and explained hed had some financial difficulties which meant 
he wouldnt be able to make payments towards his Nationwide credit account for six months. 
Nationwide agreed to put Mr N on a payment plan whereby he wouldnt be required to make 
a payment to his account for six months. However, Mr N later discovered that Nationwide 
had defaulted his account for non-payment and reported it as such to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr N wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ns complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by 
defaulting Mr Ns account as they had, and they noted that theyd explained to Mr N when 
hed agreed to the payment plan that it would include the defaulting of his account. Mr N 
wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to a recording of the telephone call between Mr N and Nationwide 
where Mr N described to two separate Nationwide agents the difficult financial 
circumstances he was experiencing, which I note included unexpected bills in regard to 
emergency dental treatment and damage to his home stemming from a lightening strike.
Its notable that Mr N went to great lengths to explain to Nationwide how his financial position 
at that time meant that he simply wouldnt be able to make any payments towards his 
Nationwide credit account for six months, and that he would therefore like Nationwide to 
agree to a six-month payment holiday on his account.
It seems to have been implicit in Mr Ns request that he shouldnt incur any adverse credit 
reporting, such as a default, because of this payment plan. However, I dont feel that it was 
reasonable for Mr N to have expected this.
One reason I say this is because all credit providers, including Nationwide, have an 
obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies as to how a credit 
account holder meets the contractual monthly repayment requirements of their account. And 
its part of the contractual payment requirements of a credit account that payments must be 
made on a monthly basis. 
This means that if a credit account holder cant make monthly payments towards an account 
for any period of time  regardless of the reason why  a credit provider such as Nationwide 
has an obligation to report that account holders inability to make the contractually required 
payments to the credit reference agencies. 
Furthermore, if a credit account holder isnt able to make monthly payments towards an 
account for a sustained period  usually three months or more  then a credit provider has 
an obligation to consider defaulting a credit account, which has the effect the freezing the 
outstanding balance and halting the accrual of any further interest or charges so that the 
account holder whos experiencing financial difficulties doesnt fall any further into debt.
So, while I appreciate that Mr N would have liked to have had a six-month payment holiday 
during which time he didnt have to make any payments towards the credit account, and 
after which he could resume repaying and using the account without any consequence, its 
unfortunately the case that this simply isnt how credit accounts work.
It's notable that towards the end of the call between Mr N and the second Nationwide agent, 
when the agent explained to Mr N that he could have a nil-pay plan which would last for six 
months, that Nationwides agent did also explain to Mr N that this would result in his account 
being defaulted and that he wouldnt be able to use the credit account moving forwards. 
However, its also evident having listened to that call that these points werent explained to 
Mr N very well or very clearly, and I feel that Nationwides agent should have taken the time 
to make sure Mr N fully understood these points before proceeding to set up the plan.
Ive therefore considered whether I feel its likely that Mr N would have continued to agree to 
the six-month payment plan, if hed been made fully aware on the telephone call that his 
account would be defaulted as a result. 
Having done so I feel that Mr N would most likely have still proceeded with the plan. I say 
this because Mr N had, during the preceding half-hour, taken great care to explain to both of 
the Nationwide agents hed spoken with how his financial position was such that he simply 
wouldnt be able to afford to make payments towards his Nationwide account for the next six 
months. And because of this I feel that Mr N would have needed to have accepted the plan 
regardless of whether he felt the consequences of it were fair or not, because I feel that Mr 
Ns financial position as he described it was such that he had no other reasonable choice.
It was also explained to Mr N when he accepted the plan that a letter would be sent to him 
confirming the details of the plan, which should have included that his account would be 
defaulted. This letter appears not to have been sent, with the next letter Nationwide have 
record of being sent to Mr N being the notice of default, which was sent a few months after 
the plan had begun. 
Mr N contacted Nationwide shortly after receiving the notice of default to query this, and so it 
seems that this notice came as a surprise to him. But ultimately, it remains the case that Mr 
N couldnt make payments towards his Nationwide account for several months, which means 
that Mr N had defaulted on his contractual payment requirements in regard to the account.
As such, Im satisfied that the defaulting of Mr Ns account was fair, and also that it was 
essentially unavoidable  given all that Mr N had explained to Nationwide surrounding his 
inability to make payments to the account, and Nationwides obligations as a credit provider 
as previously explained. 
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any 
further action here. This is because Im satisfied that the outcome that took place  that Mr Ns credit account was defaulted for non-payment  was a fair outcome, and because I feel it 
would and should have taken place regardless of whether Nationwide had communicated to 
Mr N more clearly about this point than was actually the case or not.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting here, but I hope hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman