DRN-2588934
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way her car insurance claim was handled by CIS General 
Insurance Limited, now Soteria Insurance Limited, following a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mrs M was involved in a road traffic accident when the vehicle she was driving was in a 
collision with a bus. Mrs M says that she was in a line of traffic when she started to overtake 
the bus that was stopped at a bus stop. She says that the bus then pulled out in front of her 
causing the collision. The passenger side wing mirror was broken and the glass and part of 
the casing was knocked off. Mrs M reported the accident to her insurers the same day.
Soteria made contact with the third party insurers and arranged for Mrs Ms vehicle to be 
inspected. Soteria say that Mrs M then withdrew her claim and said she would arrange the 
repairs herself. They therefore closed the claim.
Shortly after, Soteria received a letter from the third party insurers disputing liability on the 
basis of the bus drivers account, and so Soteria re-opened the claim. CCTV was received 
but Soteria say that they werent able to view it. The third party insurers could not provide it 
in a different format but did provide stills taken from the CCTV. Soteria viewed the stills and 
took the view that these showed the bus away from the kerb which was contrary to Mrs Ms 
account. They therefore wrote to Mrs M saying that they did not feel they could dispute 
liability and that they had decided to settle the claim against her.  
Mrs M complained that she thought this was unfair and that she was not at fault. She 
requested a copy of the CCTV and asked for a review. Soteria reviewed the matter and 
decided that as they were unable to view the CCTV itself, they would record it as a no fault 
incident, as long as the third party insurer did not pursue a claim against her. They also 
offered Mrs M a letter explaining what had happened in case she wished to obtain insurance 
elsewhere in the future and questions were asked about the claim.
Mrs M was not happy that Soteria had accepted liability on her behalf in the first instance 
and complained to this service. She complained that Soteria had not viewed any CCTV or 
stills when they made their decision on liability, and that they had no evidence on which to 
base their decision. She thinks she was misled and lied to by Soteria, and that they 
fabricated evidence. Mrs Ms complaint was considered by two different investigators but 
was not upheld. Both investigators concluded that Soteria had viewed the stills and that they 
had acted reasonably when they made the decision to accept liability.
Mrs M did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.  She 
asked that we issue a financial penalty against Soteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to say at the outset that this service does not impose financial penalties 
on insurers to punish them for doing something wrong. If we think the insurer has acted 
unfairly, what we can do is to try to put the customer back into the position they would have 
been in had the insurer not acted in the way they did.
It is also not my role to decide who was at fault for the accident which is the subject of this 
complaint. What I can do is consider whether Soteria handled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner. In order to do this, I need to look at why Soteria reached the decision 
that it did and whether it considered all the evidence and arguments when coming to that 
decision.
I have seen correspondence and business records from Soteria, and CCTV stills provided by 
the third partys insurers. Soteria also obtained a witness statement from Mrs M and I have 
seen a report of the damage caused to her vehicle. There was no police report or 
independent witness statements. 
After Mrs M notified Soteria of her claim, she decided to withdraw it. Mrs M thought that she 
withdrew it as a result of Soteria accepting liability, but I can see from Soterias records that 
the claim was withdrawn before the decision on liability was made. The records say that Mrs 
M made this decision as she hadnt wanted to wait for the repairs and had decided to carry 
them out herself.
When Soteria made their decision to accept liability they had been told by the third party 
insurers that the bus was not at a bus stop but was in stationary traffic when Mrs M tried to 
overtake. I can see from records that Soteria had been provided with CCTV but that they 
had not been able to view it because of the format it was in. I can see that they requested it 
in a different format which the third party insurers were not able to provide. They did, 
however, provide stills taken from the CCTV. I am satisfied that they were in possession of 
these stills before they made their decision to accept liability. Soteria came to the view that 
the stills showed the bus was away from the kerb at the time of the accident and therefore 
felt that the stills did not support Mrs Ms account. They explained this in a letter to Mrs M.
I have looked at the stills which Soteria had at the time they made their initial decision on 
liability. They are date stamped with the date of the accident and timed around the time Mrs 
M says the accident took place. The stills do not show the bus stopped at a bus stop as the 
doors appear closed and the bus is away from the kerb. They also show that there is a black 
vehicle to the drivers side of the bus which appears to be overtaking. It is not possible, 
however, to say that it is Mrs Ms vehicle as the number plate and make of car are not visible 
from the stills. The stills show that there is a van or lorry in front of the bus as Mrs M 
describes in her witness statement. From maps I have seen, the stills do appear to be in the 
location of where Mrs M says the accident occurred, although it is not clear from either 
partys account exactly where the accident took pace. I could not see a bus stop in any of 
the stills. 
From the evidence I have seen, I cannot say that Soteria acted unreasonably when it initially 
accepted liability. As I have said previously, it is not my role to make a decision on liability, 
but to decide whether Soteria acted reasonably when doing so. Although I think it would 
have undoubtedly been better had Soteria been able to view the CCTV, I accept they were 
not able to do so through no fault of their own. They therefore had to make a decision based 
on the evidence they had at the time and I do not think it was unreasonable to have relied 
upon the stills. I have not seen any evidence that Soteria lied to Mrs M or fabricated 
evidence. 
It is quite usual for motor vehicle insurance policies to include a term which allows an insurer 
to handle a claim regarding liability as it sees fit. Mrs Ms policy includes such a term in the General Policy Conditions. It states that Soteria are entitled under the policy to take over and 
conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in the insureds name. They must, 
however, act in a fair and reasonable manner based on the facts and evidence.  I believe for 
the reasons stated that they did.  
Soterias initial decision on liability was subsequently reviewed and the claim has now been 
closed and recorded as a no fault claim. Mrs M says that this is an indication that the insurer 
has something to hide. I do not believe this to be the case. Soteria were able to close the 
case as no fault as there was no cost to them as Mrs M had paid for her own repairs, and 
there was no claim pursued by the third party. 
The fact that Mrs M reported the claim in the first place means that Soteria have a duty to 
record the claim  even if it was closed as a no fault claim. This is because this is 
information other insurers will want to know about if the consumer applies for insurance 
cover elsewhere in the future.  
I appreciate that Mrs M feels very strongly that she was not at fault for the accident and I 
know she will be disappointed that I have not upheld her complaint. Although I dont think 
Soteria have acted unreasonably in this case, I would like to remind Mrs M that that she is 
not held to have been at fault for the accident and the matter has been closed as a no fault 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman