DRN-2619045
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) sent a letter to his property, which he 
believed was for him, but with his sons name on it. Mr Ds son  - Ill refer to him as A - 
doesnt hold any accounts with HSBC and he wanted an explanation of how this has 
happened. 
  
What happened
Mr D was sent an online letter by HSBC on 17 April 2020 regarding the COVID 19 
pandemic. The same letter also came by post to his address, but it was addressed to A who 
Mr D says has no HSBC accounts. 
Mr D thought that this letter was intended for him but had got As name on it by mistake and 
was concerned about how this could have happened. 
Mr D complained to HSBC on 18 May 2020 through their live chat facility asking for an 
explanation. The call handler confirmed that the letter was correctly sent to A as the letter 
was issued to anyone who had a profile with HSBC, and this could include past as well as 
current customers. The call handler also advised Mr D that if he needed additional help or 
information, he could contact them by phone. Mr D declined, but the call handler provided 
some assistance in finding the complaint section of the HSBC website for him to use.  
Mr D received a further letter from HSBC on 29 July 2020 which referred to him making an 
enquiry about a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim. Mr D made a further complaint to 
HSBC about this on 5 August 2020 saying that he had not made this enquiry and feared that 
his details were not being kept secure. He was also concerned that the letter had his full 
credit card number on it. Mr D also raised the issue of not having had a proper response to 
the complaint about the April letters. 
HSBC sent their final response letter 1 September 2020. This explained that the letter sent in 
April was issued to anyone who had a profile with HSBC, which may include people who had 
accounts in the past with HSBC but no longer do. They were unable to confirm to Mr D 
whether A had held accounts in the past as disclosing this information would be a breach of 
data protection. HSBC also confirmed that the PPI letter was in response to a complaint 
generated by Mr D in May when he was trying to file the online complaint about the April 
letters. It appeared that he had generated the PPI complaint in error. 
HSBC assured Mr D that the details they held for him were correct and that his security had 
not been compromised. 
Mr D brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ds complaint. She didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain the reasons why. 
I can understand why Mr D was concerned that a letter was sent to A when he did not think 
that A had an account with HSBC, and also that he had further letter addressed to him about 
a PPI claim which he did not think that he had made. It is important that customers are 
vigilant about the misuse of personal details as the increased risk of identity fraud is now 
part of everyday life, and unexpected communications can cause anxiety. 
However, following information provided to us by HSBC, I am satisfied that the letter to A 
was not addressed to, nor intended for Mr D, and the arrival of the letter is nothing for Mr D 
to be alarmed about.
 
In respect of the PPI letter, I am satisfied that HSBC have provided an explanation of what 
may have happened. It would seem that when they directed Mr D to the complaints section 
of the website on 18 May 2020, he inadvertently clicked on the PPI complaints section, 
generating this letter. In any event, the letter did not go astray, was delivered to the correct 
address and caused no detriment to Mr D.  
 
Our service can award compensation if we think a businesss mistake means a customer 
has lost out financially. And we can make an award if the mistake has caused a consumer 
trouble or upset. 
In this case Im satisfied that HSBC havent made a mistake so there is no award necessary 
for that. In respect of trouble and upset, although I can understand that Mr D was concerned 
about these letters, I think that HSBC gave a clear explanation when Mr D contacted them, 
and in their final response.
 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc need not do anything further in respect of Mr Ds 
complaint.  
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman