DRN-3738885
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) acted 
irresponsibly when the bank agreed to lend it £300,000.  
In bringing this complaint, P is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr J.
  
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, Mr J has told us that:
P was part of a group of companies. The group included three other companies 
which Ill refer to individually as company F, M and S. For a time yet another 
company, which I refer to as G was also part of the group. In September 2011 
following a demerger, Gs relationship with P ceased. 
In January 2011 after transferring its banking to Clydesdale, P applied for and was 
granted a £300,000 Tailored Business Loan (the Loan) to help consolidate Ps 
existing debts and provide working capital. 
Clydesdale agreed to grant the Loan for which Mr J gave the bank a personal 
guarantee for £484,000 which was secured by a 2nd charge over Mr Js home. There 
were further securities too, including cross guarantees given by the other companies 
within the group. 
In 2012 P defaulted on its repayment of the Loan, which in turn triggered a default 
notice from the bank. Subsequently, P entered liquidation and was later dissolved. 
Clydesdale took recovery action in respect of Ps outstanding debt by enforcing Mr 
Js personal guarantee. This led to Mr Js having to sell his home in order to settle 
the debt. 
In 2019 P was reinstated to the register of companies and Mr J complained to 
Clydesdale on Ps behalf about their decision in 2011 to advance the Loan to P. Mr J 
didnt think in doing so Clydesdale had acted prudently and he told the bank that: 
In agreeing to grant the Loan to P, it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that P was able to repay the Loan in a sustainable way. 
Therefore, the bank failed to observe an important aspect of responsible lending.
If reasonable and proportionate checks had been carried out by Clydesdale, in 
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) regulations, theyd have 
realised they were proposing to increase Ps indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable and harmful. 
At the time of its application P had a poor trading history and was incapable of 
meeting its ongoing commitments. In the circumstances a fair decision by Clydesdale 
would have been to decline Ps application for the Loan. Nonetheless, Clydesdale 
decided to lend because they saw an opportunity to obtain a personal guarantee in 
excess of the amount they were lending and therefore profit from a business they 
knew was about to fail.
Clydesdales action caused significant distress and worry. In particular on being told 
by the bank the family home had to be sold to repay the amounts the bank said P 
owed. The bank should reimburse the amount Mr J was asked to guarantee over and 
above the sum P borrowed in 2011.
Clydesdale didnt uphold the complaint. They said they carried out appropriate affordability 
checks before agreeing the Loan  including an assessment of Mr Js assets and liabilities. 
They said after taking account of the details P provided, they didnt think there were any 
affordability issues and coupled with the fact Mr J gave the bank suitable security for it, the 
Loan was approved and granted to P. 
Since Ps complaint remained unresolved, Mr J referred it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Clydesdales lending to P was irresponsible and therefore, he 
didnt uphold Ps complaint. He said in summary that:
At the time the loan was granted to P, the group (which as noted above included 
companies G, F and S) had a turnover of around £7.5m, £5m of which was attributed 
to G. 
Clydesdale had noted that sales were growing for both G and F. Gs turnover for 
example accounted for a substantial part of the groups overall £7.5m turnover. And 
although Ss sales were down which the bank expressed concerns about, Clydesdale 
were satisfied by Ps explanations of the reasons. That, alongside the security the 
bank was offered, persuaded Clydesdale that the lending was safe.
Notes from the meetings between Ps directors and Clydesdale show that P had set 
out how the Loan would benefit the group, including consolidating its debt, as well as 
modernising and increasing its capacity. And banks are entitled to rely on the 
information applicants provide them with. Clydesdale were persuaded by the plan P 
outlined to them for the business and whilst this may not have turned out as 
expected, this is with the benefit of hindsight.
G was sold nine months after the Loan was granted and as it accounted for the bulk 
of the groups turnover, inevitably this impact P. But this wasnt foreseeable by 
Clydesdale at the time of the lending.
P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and on its behalf Mr J has asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. He said in summary:
There were discussions with Clydesdale about the sale of G prior to the Loan being 
granted; so contrary to the investigators findings the impact on P was foreseeable.It is not uncommon for lenders to obtain a security to minimise risk. What is 
uncommon, however, which is what happened to P, is for a lender to lend money and 
take security when the business receiving the funds is not in a position to repay it. 
Clydesdale knew the business would fail imminently and in that event this would 
mean they would be able to recoup far in excess of the lending provided. Clydesdale 
benefited from the failure of the business. 
Clydesdale failed to act as a responsible lender in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) obligations. And they took no reasonable steps to ensure that one 
of the purposes of the loan - debt consolidation did in fact occur. If the repayment of 
Ps debt was part of the lending rationale Clydesdale ought to have attached 
conditions to ensure this happened. 
The bank wasnt concerned about the business ability to service the Loan as it had 
secured a personal guarantee far in excess of the Loan.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before I come in detail to my final decision, Ill make one or two observations. Firstly, Mr J 
has mentioned concerns regarding his personal guarantee. 
But I note we have already considered an historic complaint about that issue and in March 
2018 an ombudsman gave a decision in relation to it. The ombudsman concluded that we 
werent able to consider the complaint on the basis that Mr J didnt satisfy the definition of a 
consumer. Our investigator has also pointed out that the position hasnt changed, and I 
agree. So, Im afraid I wont be commenting further on what Mr J has told us about his 
personal guarantee.
Secondly, Mr J has commented on what he believes were the banks motives for granting 
the Loan to P. Hes told us that he believes Clydesdale decided to lend because they saw an 
opportunity to obtain a personal guarantee in excess of the amount, they were lending and 
so allow the bank to recover far more than the Loan in the knowledge P was about to fail.
I dont propose to comment on Mr Js assertion, because I have no way to reasonably 
determining whether its true. At the heart of Ps complaint is that Clydesdale lent funds to P 
irresponsibly  in other words when they should not have done. That is something I can 
determine in light of the evidence to hand and so I now turn to that. 
I start by saying that banks have discretion regarding to whom theyre prepared to lend. So, 
when making their decision whether or not to lend to P, thats a matter for Clydesdales own 
commercial judgement. I would also add that generally speaking its not for me as 
ombudsman to interfere with that judgement or with the benefit of hindsight try to second 
guess the decision that was made. Especially, in circumstances where the banks judgement 
in my opinion has been exercised fairly after giving proper consideration to Ps application. 
Mr J thinks the lending to P was irresponsible and hes mentioned that in agreeing to the 
lending, Clydesdale failed to act within the regulatory framework prescribed by the FCA. But 
I bear in mind this was commercial lending by the bank, which was not regulated by the 
FCA. It seems likely that much of the regulatory framework Mr J has alluded to are in fact aimed at 
consumer rather than commercial lending. In 2011, neither the FCA nor the Office of Fair 
Trading had any regulations governing the sale or conduct of commercial loans to limited 
companies, and the same is true now. 
I would also add that I do not think Clydesdale had an obligation to ensure the Loan was 
used for the purpose it was obtained by P. Ultimately it was Ps responsibility to ensure the 
debt consolidation for which the Loan was partly to be used. Also, I see no clear evidence P 
and the bank discussed the demerger of G in a matter of months and that this would impact 
the turnover of the group. 
Under our rules, however, known as DISP and in particular DISP 3.6.4, in reaching my 
decision I am required to take into account any relevant industry code. In Ps case this would 
be the lending code. 
The relevant provisions in the lending code at the time says: 
Before lending any money; granting or increasing an overdraft, or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it.
Since Ps core complaint concerns whether the bank did lend to P irresponsibly and having 
regard to its obligations under the code, my starting point is the point-of-sale documentation 
and background notes. 
The bank has said that in November/December 2010, P provided it with a written report 
which detailed the background and reasons behind the request for funding from the bank. 
And Clydesdale said that they would have performed appropriate credit checks and carried 
out an assessment of Mr Js assets and liabilities. So, Clydesdale believed that in 2011, they 
lent responsibly, basing their decision on a sound assessment of Ps financial state at the 
time.
As Ive already mentioned above, the point-of-sale documents and analysis are important in 
my consideration of the banks actions. Clydesdale have provided a copy of the paperwork 
that was completed at the time. This included the Statement of Assets and Liabilities relating 
to Mr J, internal paperwork evidencing contemporaneous analysis of Ps financial position, 
and the other companies within the group. In addition, Clydesdale have given us their 
rationale for providing the Loan. Ive considered the banks evidence very carefully. 
 
According to the banks records P had been visited several times, and it seems from those 
records Clydesdale had understood Ps overall structure, including the role F, G and S 
played in the generation of its income. 
Mr J asserts that P was on the brink of failure at the time of the lending. But this seems at 
odds with the banks analysis at the time which records overall increase in group sales as 
well as gross profit. Clydesdale observed that sales growth of the group was strong albeit 
there was a need to control overheads and improve gross margins. The bank did identify 
there were losses in the year to date. But, it took the view P was geared up to address them 
and that the directors had the drive and ability to turn things around. 
That being said the bank did acknowledge that its decision to approve the Loan was 
influenced by the security Mr J provided.  Mr J has acknowledged that it is not uncommon for 
banks to take security when lending, to minimise their risk. But Ive seen no 
contemporaneous evidence that the security the bank took - which was primarily the personal guarantee and second charge security  was done in the knowledge P was about 
to fail.  
I am satisfied the lending provided to P in 2011 was based on what I consider to have been 
a sound financial assessment of Ps financial state at the time. 
 
My final decision
 Based on the evidence, Ive seen, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman