DRN-3684923
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account and return money 
that he says was sent to him in connection with the sale of cryptocurrency.
Background
Mr R had an account with Santander. He says that in January 2021 he agreed to sell Bitcoin. 
He agreed with a purchaser that contacted him via a cryptocurrency platform that they would 
transfer sterling into his Santander account and that he would transfer the Bitcoin to them. 
He asked the purchaser to provide him with photographic ID, proof of address and a written 
statement showing that the transfer was in connection with the purchase of Bitcoin. He 
received two payments into his account for £175 and £110 respectively and so he duly 
transferred the Bitcoin to the intended recipient.
Shortly afterwards, the person who had sent him these funds complained to their bank that 
theyd fallen victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam. They said that theyd been 
looking to take out a loan and been taken in by an advance fee fraud. The sending bank 
reported this allegation to Santander. Santander agreed to return the funds to the sending 
account. The payment into Mr Rs account had therefore been reversed, but there was no 
similar way to unwind the transfer of Bitcoin that Mr R had executed. As far as Mr R was 
concerned, hed lost the Bitcoin and the money that was supposed to pay for it. At the same 
time, Santander reviewed Mr Rs account and decided it didnt want to continue offering him 
banking facilities. It gave him 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. 
Mr R was unhappy with this. He complained to Santander, but it was satisfied that it had 
done the right thing. Mr R referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Adjudicator who upheld it. The Adjudicator said that Santander was entitled to close Mr Rs 
account. She said that it was the banks decision whether it wants to continue offering an 
account to a customer.
However, she thought Mr R had provided credible evidence showing that he was entitled to 
the funds that had been transferred into his account and that they were in connection with 
the sale of Bitcoin. The Adjudicator didnt think that it was fair for Santander to have sent 
these funds back to the sending account. She recommended that it refund those payments 
to Mr R and pay him £100 in recognition of the inconvenience it had caused him.
Santander disagreed with the Adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Adjudicator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Santander opted to close the account and gave Mr R 60 days notice of its 
intention to do so. As a rule, a bank is free to decide whether its willing to continue offering 
an account to a customer, so long as it does so fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Santander was therefore entitled to withdraw Mr Rs banking 
facilities. It gave a reasonable notice period so as to allow Mr R to find a bank account 
elsewhere. Overall, Im satisfied that it didnt treat Mr R unfairly when it closed his account.
However, Im concerned with the way in which it handled the return of the funds that were 
paid into Mr Rs account. The CRM Code says that after receiving notification of concerns 
from a sending bank a receiving bank should respond in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Best Practice Standards. The Best Practice Standards produced by UK Finance in 
October 2017 set out standards for sending and receiving banks to follow when processing a 
claim for an authorised push payment scam like this one. 
It sets out several relevant principles:
The sending bank should notify their customer that because they authorised the 
transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient. And that the outcome will 
depend on the receiving firms investigation and whether any funds remain. 
The receiving bank will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the 
funds fraudulently. 
Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject to various 
exceptions. One of these exceptions is where there is a credible complaint or dispute 
from the recipient of the funds.
So, whilst the normal practice is that fraudulent funds are returned to the sending bank this 
isnt always the case. The receiving bank should investigate whether its customer received 
the funds fraudulently and if this isnt the case there is no obligation to return them.
In this instance, I think there was a risk that Mr R was the victim of a scam. The evidence 
hes provided suggests that hed reached an agreement to transfer Bitcoin on receipt of a 
payment into his account. If the allegation that these payments were fraudulent was made in 
bad faith, Mr R will have lost both his cryptocurrency and the money he received for it.
From the evidence it has provided to me, Santander hasnt carried out any investigation into 
whether Mr R has received fraudulent funds. The allegation made by the holder of the 
sending account seems to have been taken at face value. Santander has said that Mr R was 
in receipt of multiple credits from third parties for the sale of the Bitcoin and that, as he 
doesnt know the people sending him money, he cant know where the money originates. It 
argues that hes taking a risk by accepting funds of unknown origin into his account.  
While I accept that, as Mr R was transacting with strangers on the cryptocurrency platform, 
there was inevitably uncertainty regarding the origin of the funds. But that doesnt mean that 
he wasnt the innocent recipient of those funds.  Santander has also said that Mr R has not 
provided compelling evidence that the [sending banks] customer sent to the funds to him 
legitimately and the he went on to sell on the crypto platform. But the evidence Mr R has 
submitted shows that an informal agreement was reached between him and an individual 
who contacted him via that platform. It was agreed that Mr R would take payment for Bitcoin 
via a bank transfer. Its true that Mr R hasnt been able to demonstrate that he sent that 
Bitcoin to a blockchain address genuinely controlled by the person who sent him the 
payments. Unfortunately, there is no way for him to prove that either way.Overall, Im not persuaded that Santander did enough to satisfy itself that Mr R hadnt 
received these payments in good faith and so I dont think it shouldve repatriated the funds 
to the sending account. Ive also considered the inconvenience that has been caused to 
Mr R. The Adjudicator recommended it pay him £100 in recognition of that and Im satisfied 
that represents fair compensation in this case.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc should now pay Mr R:
 £285 to represent the money that was returned to the sending account; and
 £100 in recognition of the inconvenience that was caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman