DRN-2760728
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the amount he was offered by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) in settlement of 
his claim after his car was stolen.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr C took out car insurance online using a price comparison website. On 2 July 
2020 his car was stolen, so he contacted QIC to make a claim on his policy.
Mr C says QIC verbally told him theyd valued his car at £22,500. But on 13 July 2020 they 
sent him an email saying the car had been valued at £18,950. Mr C queried why this figure 
was lower than their initial valuation - he said hed seen similar cars for sale at around 
£24,000 with less optional extras than his car had. QIC said this was due to the limit on the 
policy. 
 
On 28 July 2020 QIC emailed Mr C, setting out the following three options: 
They said they were within their right to cancel the policy and return his 
premiums, because they hadnt been made aware of the true risk involved. They 
said they dont insure private motor vehicles valued at more than £20,000;
Mr C could receive a proportionate settlement based on the additional premium 
that wouldve been payable if hed increased the insured value up to the 
maximum of £20,000 permitted under the policy. They said hed paid 92% of the 
correct premium, which meant hed receive a settlement of £18,400; or
He could receive a settlement based on the insured value of £18,950. 
Mr C says he reluctantly agreed to a payment based on the insured value of £18,950.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, QIC said his claim was referred to the underwriter because 
the valuation exceeded the limit of liability under the policy. They said they considered any 
delay this had caused to be unavoidable, but that the claim had nevertheless been settled in 
a timely manner.
 
Mr C complained to QIC and our service that he didnt agree with their valuation and felt hed 
been pressured into accepting a reduced pay-out. He said he remembered typing in a value 
when he took out the policy, but that this wouldve been a guestimate. He felt it was 
unreasonable for QIC to expect him to know the market value of his car.
Our investigator thought QIC had settled the claim fairly. She was satisfied that the website 
Mr C used to purchase his policy wouldve automatically generated the cars market value, 
but that he wouldve been able to change it. She thought it more likely than not that the 
website wouldve automatically generated a value of over £20,000 - and the evidence shed 
seen showed QIC wouldnt have offered cover in those circumstances. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied. He felt hed submitted the application in good faith and didnt 
think the vehicle value had been pre-populated. He said hed been left significantly out of 
pocket and felt QIC had treated him unfairly by reducing their valuation from their original 
figure of £22,500. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When customers apply for a policy, insurers ask questions to help them decide whether 
theyre prepared to offer cover, and if so, on what terms. The relevant law here is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, which Ill refer to as 
CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering questions at the point of buying or renewing an insurance policy.
 
CIDRA gives insurers remedies to deal with certain situations where a consumer hasnt 
taken reasonable care and misrepresented something. To qualify for these remedies, the 
insurer must show that they wouldve offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The test is how much care a reasonable 
consumer wouldve taken when they answered the insurers questions. 
Ive looked at the information Mr C wouldve seen when he took out his policy. QIC have told 
us that the price comparison website wouldve automatically completed the relevant field 
with the current value of his car - and that he wouldve been able to change this if he didnt 
agree with it. Theyve provided a screenshot of a pop-up message that wouldve appeared, 
saying:
Weve pre-filled some details using an independent authority to save you time. This 
includes a car valuation, based on what we believe an insurer might pay out in the 
event of a claim. Please check the details and change any information that isnt 
correct. 
QIC have told us that a search was carried out by the price comparison website on the date 
Mr C got his insurance quote. I havent seen evidence to confirm what, if any, valuation was 
generated. Mr C doesnt recall the market value of his car being pre-populated - he says he 
typed this into a free-text field.
 
QIC have provided a screenshot of the details entered when Mr Cs policy was taken out, 
showing a market value of £18,950. Having carefully considered the representations made 
by both parties, Im satisfied that this figure was typed in by Mr C. Im also satisfied that this 
misrepresented the cars true market value, because the retail price guide used by QICs 
engineer in July 2020 valued it at £22,500. 
Mr C feels strongly that its unreasonable for QIC to expect him to know the market value. 
Ive given careful thought to the point hes made here. I find the pop-up on the price 
comparison website made it clear that the valuation entered is likely to be the amount an 
insurer will pay out in the event of a claim. Ive also seen copies of the documents Mr C was 
sent when he took out the policy in May 2020  Ive read these carefully.
The covering letter asked Mr C to check all the policy details to make sure they were correct 
- and advised him that he had the right to cancel the policy within 14 days. The enclosed 
statement of fact showed the market value of the car to be £18,950. The important notes 
section at the top of that document explained that CIDRA requires customers to take care 
and supply accurate and complete answers to all questions asked. It included a warning that 
failure to do so may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or cancellation of the 
policy. Given those potential consequences, I dont consider it unreasonable for QIC to have 
expected Mr C to check the value of his car online if he wasnt sure. Mr C says he entered the estimated value in good faith. Where a consumer has made a 
misrepresentation carelessly - rather than deliberately or recklessly - CIDRA says:
If, without the misrepresentation, the insurer wouldnt have offered insurance on any 
terms, theyre entitled to avoid the contract, refuse the claim and refund the 
premiums paid.
If they wouldve offered insurance but charged a higher premium, theyre entitled to 
reduce the amount to be paid on the claim proportionately. 
QIC have provided evidence showing they wouldnt have offered to insure a car worth more 
than £20,000. So, Im satisfied that they were entitled to refuse Mr Cs claim for the total loss 
of his car worth £22,500 and offer to refund his premiums.
 
In their email dated 28 July 2020, QIC also explained the pay-out Mr C would receive if they 
reduced the settlement figure proportionately. They took into account the higher premium 
they wouldve charged to insure a car worth the maximum value of £20,000 permitted under 
the policy. Adopting this approach would mean theyd only pay 92% of the maximum 
£20,000 sum insured, resulting in a settlement of less than £18,950.
QIC have explained that, as Mr C had taken out an insurance policy with a maximum liability 
of £18,950, they offered to settle his claim based on this figure. Im satisfied that this resulted 
in a higher settlement than if theyd used one of the remedies available to them under 
CIDRA. So, although I understand that Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, I cant 
say QIC have treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman