DRN-3139914
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided her with a refund of 
premiums for a single trip travel insurance policy she held.
  
What happened
Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 8 January 2020 for a holiday which 
was due to take place from 7 April until 14 April 2020. She paid a total of £179.08 excluding 
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
included cover for some medical conditions shed declared. The cost of Mrs Bs policy 
included a discount of £6.15, which she received at the point she purchased her policy. In 
total, Mrs B paid £208.74 for her policy including IPT.
On 27 March 2020, Mrs B cancelled her holiday due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She said 
she tried to contact Great Lakes to request the cancellation of her policy and to explain that 
she couldnt travel to her intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
However, due to high call volumes, she said she was unable to speak with Great Lakes until 
27 July 2020.
When Mrs B asked Great Lakes to cancel her policy, it informed her that her policy had 
expired. And it said it could offer her a discount of 20% towards the price of her next travel 
insurance policy.
Mrs B was unhappy with how Great Lakes proposed to resolve her cancellation request. She 
wanted a cash refund of her premium as she hadnt travelled. So, she complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 8 January 2020 and the policy covered various risks during 
that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But they recommended partially upholding Mrs Bs complaint. They werent persuaded that it 
was reasonable for Great Lakes to resolve Mrs Bs complaint by offering a discount toward 
the cost of a future policy. Because Mrs B had cancelled her holiday on 27 March 2020, our 
investigator thought Great Lakes ought to have issued a pro-rata refund for the days she 
wasnt on risk. But they didnt think Great Lakes needed to issue a cash refund. They 
thought a voucher refund was fair and reasonable here.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators recommended resolution to this complaint. But 
Mrs B didnt. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of 
resolving her concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Like our investigator, Im partially upholding this complaint because: 
Cover under Mrs Bs policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate she received. Im satisfied 
Mrs B was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to her policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly in offering 
Mrs B a discount of 20% towards the cost of a future travel insurance policy.
I appreciate that Mrs B hadnt requested the cancellation of her policy until 27 July 
2020, which was after her policy had ended. But she told our investigator she made 
extensive efforts to contact Great Lakes and was unable to speak with a company 
representative due to extremely high call volumes. Ive also seen evidence showing 
that Mrs Bs holiday was cancelled on 27 March 2020. 
Ive taken into account that Great Lakes was bearing a risk of the holiday being 
cancelled up until 27 March. But it was no longer carrying that risk once the holiday 
was cancelled. So, in the overall circumstances, I think Great Lakes should calculate 
Mrs Bs refund from 27 March 2020. This pro-rata refund would then take into 
account the 19 days of unused cover from the date of the holiday cancellation to the 
date the holiday was due to end, which would be fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B doesnt think its fair for Great Lakes to offer her a pro-rata credit voucher 
refund as an alternative to a pro-rata monetary refund. But this voucher is valid for 36 
months and our service would view this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a reasonable period within which a consumer can use it 
towards future travel insurance policies they may wish to take out.
Mrs B has told our service she doesnt intend to travel in the future due to issues with 
her health and the pandemic. But thats her choice  I havent seen any deterioration 
in health conditions that might preclude travel and I can see that Mrs B was prepared 
to travel in April 2020 with the health conditions she declared to Great Lakes. 
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in the 
overall circumstances, I think a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
I can see that Great Lakes has agreed with our investigators recommendation that it 
issue a pro-rata voucher refund to Mrs B that takes into account the unused days of 
policy cover. Great Lakes told our service that the refund should be £40.47, and it 
sent us a calculation illustration showing how it had arrived at that amount. 
Having checked Great Lakes illustration, Im satisfied the refund amount its 
proposed is correct. I can see Great Lakes has calculated Mrs Bs refund by dividing 
the price she actually paid for her policy by the total cover length (98 days). It then 
multiplied that value by the days Mrs B wasnt on risk (19 days). This is an approach 
our service would endorse.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should issue Mrs B with a voucher for £40.47 for the 
reasons outlined above 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mrs Bs complaint, Great Lakes 
Insurance SE should issue her with a voucher for £40.47.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman