DRN-3975959
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that he lost a large amount of money to an investment and he thinks 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) should have done more to help prevent and/or 
recover those losses.
Mr R has appointed various parties to represent him since referring his complaint to this 
service. For simplicity, I will refer to all submissions made directly by Mr R or by his 
representatives as having come from Mr R.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. But, to summarise:
Between August 2020 and February 2021 Mr R made 15 transfers, totalling more than 
£350,000, from his current account (via faster payment and CHAPS and via 
intermediaries) to an overseas investment/trading company that had been recommended 
by a friend. He says he thought he was trading in Contracts for Difference (CfDs), but he 
now thinks the company misrepresented the nature of his business, provided him with 
only a simulated trading account and took his money with no intention of enabling him to 
trade. He thinks NatWest could have better protected him and he wants his money to be 
returned.
Mr R notified NatWest about the situation in June 2021 after the investment company 
told him the FCA (the UK financial services regulator) had forced it to close his account. 
NatWest paid £100 compensation to Mr R in recognition of some customer service 
failings that occurred while it was investigating his concerns. But it didnt ultimately 
uphold his underlying complaint, so Mr R asked this service to look into the matter.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month setting out why, having looked at all the 
evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I have reproduced my provisional 
findings below:
Mr R has raised some concerns about the processes NatWest followed when he made the 
payments, including not telling him when a payment failed the Confirmation of Payee 
checks. As Ive said, he transferred his money both by online faster payment and in branch 
CHAPS with some of the money being sent direct to the investment company, while other 
payments were made (in accordance with the investment companys direction) via an open 
banking platform and a digital wallet. But the fact remains that Mr R has not disputed making 
and authorising all of the payments that led to this complaint. And theres also no dispute 
that NatWest processed all the payments in accordance with his wishes as it is required to 
do under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his 
account. So, any losses that Mr R subsequently experienced are, in the first instance, his 
own responsibility. But the matter doesnt necessarily end there. 
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
There is also an overriding obligation for banks to protect vulnerable consumers. I mention 
this, in particular, because Mr R pointed latterly to his vulnerabilities and the banks failure to 
protect him. On that note, I would say Ive seen little in the banks records that suggests 
Mr R had told it about, or it should otherwise have been aware of, his historic mental ill-
health or any other obvious vulnerabilities (other than his age) at the time these payments 
were made.
With regards to NatWests duties to monitor Mr Rs account and protect him from the various 
risks Ive mentioned above, I do think the payments he made were unusual and out of 
character given the way hed historically operated his account. And its arguable that the 
bank ought to have intervened, or offered greater intervention, at various points. Such 
intervention might have included asking him why he was making the payments and, if hed 
explained it was for an investment, explaining to him what an investment scam might look 
like and the type of research he could undertake to ensure he was dealing with a genuine 
investment company. 
I would also expect the bank to make clear any responses it received whenever 
Confirmation of Payee (CofP) checks took place. CofP is an account name checking service 
that can help avoid payment being misdirected due to error or fraud. And, on that note I want 
to be clear that CofP checks are only undertaken on UK to UK accounts held by the 
businesses that are signed up (on a compulsory or voluntary basis) to the scheme. Also that, 
despite what Mr R may have been told, most banks (and I believe NatWest is included) will 
generally allow a consumer to continue to make a payment even if there is no match or if 
the receiving bank doesnt provide a response. But there may be circumstances, as Ive 
already noted, in which a bank will decide to block a payment if it considers there is a high 
risk of fraud and a negative CofP response might be one factor in that decision-making 
process.
Despite what Mr R has said, I dont currently think that additional questions or intervention  
including any advice about CofP responses  would likely have stopped him paying money 
to the investment company. 
Perhaps the key reasons for reaching this conclusion are that the banks obligations are in 
place to protect customers from fraud and scams. There was no obligation in this situation 
for the bank to give Mr R investment advice or to protect him against the risk of a bad 
bargain or what turned out to be a bad investment decision. And its not currently clear to me 
that Mr R did actually fall victim to a scam  in fact he has, personally, been quite forceful in 
his assertion that he has never alleged this. To clarify, Mr R hasnt shared with us any of the communications that passed between him 
and the investment company leading up to, or after, he made the payments. I, nevertheless, 
accept the possibility that the investment might have been promoted using sales methods 
that were, arguably, unethical and/or misleading. But that doesnt necessarily meet the high 
legal threshold for fraud which requires an intention to deceive Mr R into parting with his 
money. 
I also note Mr R has said specifically he wanted to invest in CfDs and that this type of 
investment and investment company had been recommended by a friend. And I see he paid 
£240,000 from his current account to a UK-regulated wealth management company in 2019 
so, it seems reasonable to assume, he had some previous investment experience. In the 
circumstances, I have no reason to think he didnt understand and accept how CfDs worked 
along with the fact there was a risk his entire capital could be lost. In fact Ive been able to 
access historic snapshots of the investment companys website from web.archive.org and 
these do mention that Trading incurs a high level of risk and can result in the loss of all your 
capital.
When concluding that Mr R probably wasnt scammed and/or that additional intervention by 
the bank wouldnt have stopped him from investing I have also taken into account that:
At the time Mr R made the payments, the investment company had been authorised and 
regulated in Cyprus (where its office were based) to provide investment services for a 
number of years. It was also approved by the FCA and permitted to operate in the UK. 
At the time Mr R made the payments to the investment company neither the FCA, nor 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO  the international 
body that brings together the world's securities regulators) had published any warnings 
about it. 
The FCA instructed the investment company not to conduct regulated activities with UK 
resident clients on 3 May 2021 and to return their money. On 8 June 2021 the FCA 
published a warning that the investment company might be providing financial services 
or products in the UK without its authorisation. But both announcements were published 
after Mr R sent his last payment. And, to date, the FCA hasnt published anything which 
advises specifically that the investment company was operating a scam or acting 
fraudulently whereas it has done so with some other overseas CfD investment/trading 
companies.
Mr R was able to make some withdrawals from the trading account and says he did so 
as a test. This might further suggest he understood there were some risks undertaking 
this type of investment or investing through this type of trading platform and proceeded 
anyway.
At times, NatWest has caused some confusion about whether or not it thinks Mr R was 
scammed. For example, in its final response letter of 26 June 2021 it starts off by saying 
it doesnt agree he was scammed. But later in that same letter it said it was sorry to hear 
Mr R had fallen victim to a scam. I dont think there was any malice behind this. I think 
its more likely to be a result of careless use of standard paragraphs. I agree this was 
entirely unhelpful. But I dont think it means the bank actually accepts that Mr R was 
scammed. In fact, in its correspondence with this service the bank has been clear that it 
doesnt think there was a scam here. And Im similarly satisfied given what Ive said 
above.Mr R intended on investing in a high risk venture and the money he transferred ended up in 
the right place, with the desired investment company. With this and all of the above in mind, I 
dont accept his assertion that he would have chosen not to invest had the bank pointed out 
at one point that the recipient of any of his transfers had not been confirmed via a CofP 
check. We might expect the bank to have prompted him to undertake some further checks 
into the company but, as Ive already explained, these wouldnt have revealed anything 
untoward or that contradicted what he likely already knew about the investment.
NatWests recovery attempts
It appears NatWest made reasonable attempts to recover Mr Rs money after he reported 
his concerns. This involved it contacting the banks to which his money was sent. Thats all I 
would expect it to do and the evidence NatWest has provided suggests those banks refused 
to return the money. I can also understand that refusal, given what Ive already concluded 
about the investment company having not been a scam.
In light of the above, and in all the circumstances, I cant fairly instruct NatWest to refund any 
of the payments Mr R made.
NatWests handling of the complaint
Mr R has also complained about the customer service he received from NatWest after 
reporting his concerns. It does seem that he spoke with a number of different people from 
different departments and I can see how some confusion might have been caused. But, 
again, I dont think there was any malice underlying the banks actions.
I note, in particular, that there is still some confusion about who and why Mr R was sent a 
third party mandate. In my experience, and as hes suggested, its extremely rare that a bank 
will ever insist on being a named third party on an individual customers account with the 
ability to undertake transactions and give instruction on their behalf. If that really is what was 
said to Mr R I do wonder if the suggestion may have been made by someone masquerading 
as a bank employee. Weve already asked the bank about this and its provided limited 
evidence. I dont think its likely that well be able to get to the bottom of this. But even if I 
discovered that the bank had made a mistake here, it doesnt seem that a third party 
mandate has been added to Mr Rs account or that any related losses incurred.
NatWest has already paid £100 compensation into Mr Rs account to recognise any failings 
that occurred while investigating his concerns. I currently consider that to be a fair and 
reasonable amount in all the circumstances and make no additional award.
Mr R and his current representative both provided responses to my provisional decision. I 
will summarise here what they said and, again for ease, will refer to all the comments as if 
theyve come direct from Mr R.
In reaching my decision I didnt place enough emphasis on how vulnerable he was and 
this ought to have been apparent to the bank, from both his physical appearance and the 
investment decisions he was making, even if he didnt tell it explicitly about his mental 
health problems.
He didnt expect the bank to give him investment advice or warn him against what turned 
out to be a bad investment decision. But NatWest should have told him that the recipient 
was not confirmed in all 15 transactions. Instead the bank gave him the impression it 
had authenticated the payees to whom all 15 payments were made. His first payment of 
£9,000 to the investment platform, on 11 August 2020 was blocked by the bank. He 
believed this was due to the size of the payment and that the payee would be blocked until it had been fully authenticated. It was because of this that he spoke with the 
investment platform and was told to send the money in three smaller transactions via an 
open banking platform. The bank subsequently told him that the first of those three 
payments should also have been blocked due to its size. 
He remains adamant that if the bank had intervened more that he wouldnt have made 
the payments and sent all of his life savings to this investment platform.
He listened to a trusted friend and their advice about CfDs in order to avoid paying the 
high charges that would be levied by the professional adviser hed previously engaged. It 
was inaccurate of me to say that he understood, and accepted, how CfDs  a niche, 
specialist investment  worked.
The bank deliberately misled him about the removal of the investment platform as a 
payee from his account. It also failed, for example, to explain how the complaint 
investigation would proceed, who would be handling matters or when to expect updates. 
There was no communication between the different departments relating to his complaint 
and the removal of the payee from his account. And the banks eventual responses were 
littered with factual inaccuracies and caused great confusion. He asked that I reconsider 
whether £100 compensation is sufficient in the circumstances.
NatWest didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I note all of Mr R and his representatives additional comments, I still 
cant fairly instruct NatWest to refund any of the disputed transactions.
I note Mr Rs comments about the first payment attempt to the investment platform being 
blocked and the reason he then sent the money via alternative means. Also that hes 
suggested he would never have sent the money if the bank had told him the payee was not 
confirmed. Ive seen little to support Mr Rs assertion that the various payees he sent money 
to were not confirmed and Ive already explained that Confirmation of Payee is not 
conducted on all outgoing transactions. But even if such checks were carried out and 
negative responses received its not true to say that payments cant still be made to those 
payees. And, perhaps more importantly, as I explained in my provisional decision and 
irrespective of the way the money was sent, there has been no suggestion that the money 
didnt end up with the intended recipient  the investment platform. And, at the time, there 
was nothing untoward being reported about that investment company which ought to have 
raised alarm bells or contradicted what Mr R already knew about them which mightve been 
found if the bank had encouraged him to undertake additional checks into the company itself 
or to ask questions about the receiving account.
Each bank has its own fraud prevention measures, usually based on algorithms, and there 
will be several factors that cause payments to be blocked. As Mr R has pointed out, the 
value of the payment when compared to the usual account activity might be one such factor. 
And a consumers stated or apparent vulnerability might also play a part. But Ive already 
agreed that the bank ought to have intervened (or intervened more) given the unusual 
activity. Yet its role was not to stop Mr R from making investment decisions which might, with 
hindsight, prove to be unwise. And, I must say again, that I think Mr R probably wasnt 
scammed. So overall, I remain satisfied that NatWest cant fairly be blamed for Mr Rs losses.
I still dont think the bank deliberately tried to confuse or deceive Mr R after he flagged his 
concerns. Its certainly unfortunate that the different departments that were dealing with his 
different concerns didnt work more closely together. And its clear there was some confusion 
caused as a result. But, in all the circumstances, I remain satisfied that the £100 
compensation already paid by the bank is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman