DRN-2874615
The complaint
Mr M says he opened a trading account with Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) on 11 May 2020 
with a deposit of £5,000; that he traded on the same day; that his positions were wrongly 
closed by an invalid margin call caused by a Plus500 pricing system defect; that Plus500 
eventually upheld his complaint about the matter and restored his account to its pre margin 
call state (along with a payment of £100 for trouble and upset); and that he considers the 
matter unresolved, he considers the account correction to be inadequate and he should be 
compensated for the profit (around $30,000) he would have made on his positions but for the 
margin call closures. 
Mr M also says he was not given the opportunity to address the margin call before his 
positions were closed.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He referred to pricing data, related to some of Mr Ms positions, that Plus500 
accepts was wrong and he agreed that the relevant prices were incorrect, but he explained 
why the account would still have fallen into negative equity (and a margin call) even if the 
price feed was correct. The investigator said Plus500s restoration of the account to its pre 
margin call state and its payment of £100 for trouble and upset amount to more than this 
service would have awarded Mr M, given that the margin call would have happened 
irrespective of the inaccurate price feed.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and he objected to the investigators finding that the 
margin call would have happened in any case. He said Plus500 has already conceded the 
opposite, that the margin call would not have happened but for the inaccurate prices and its 
system fault, so the only issue in dispute is his claim for lost potential profits in the positions 
that were closed. He regards them as positions Plus500 has unreasonably refused to 
reopen. He also insists that Plus500 is wrong to say his claim for lost potential profit is 
hypothetical (and could instead have been losses) and he believes his calculations help to 
show otherwise. 
Mr Ms response was shared with Plus500 and it clarified its position mainly as follows  it 
does not accept Mr Ms suggestion of a system fault and it disputes any suggestion that it 
manipulated its pricing model; it has not accepted that the margin call would not have 
happened but for the inaccurate prices; it previously said Mr Ms positions may have stayed 
open and it said this because it had not conducted calculations to confirm how the account 
would have behaved without the inaccurate prices; it had not conducted those calculations 
because it had already agreed to restore the account to its pre margin call state so it was not 
necessary to verify how the account would have behaved; it has since conducted those 
calculations and can confirm that the margin call would have happened irrespective of the 
pricing error.
The investigator was not persuaded by Mr Ms arguments and he did not change his view. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issues to determine in this complaint are Mr Ms claim that Plus500 should have 
given him prior notice of the margin call  which is what he has referred to as being deprived 
the opportunity to address the margin call before his positions were closed  and then his 
compensation claim for the lost potential profit he asserts. I acknowledge that the relevant 
price feeds, the suggestion of a system failure and the way his accounts equity level would 
have behaved but for the margin call are additional issues that have been debated and I do 
not suggest that they are not issues that can be determined. They can be determined, but as 
I explain below the redress that Mr M has already been given essentially renders these 
additional issues redundant  which is why the aforementioned two issues are my focus. 
The matter of margin call notice can be addressed with reference to the terms and 
conditions for Plus500s accounts. We do not appear to have a 2020 version of those terms, 
but I have consulted the 2021 version that is publicly available. On balance, I consider that it 
provides a reasonably reliable indication of the margin related terms that applied last year. 
The Key Facts Summary of the terms confirms that Plus500 is not obliged to send margin 
call notices to account holders. Section 18 of the terms says it may send such alerts but 
nothing in this section  a margin related section of the terms  says Plus500 had a duty to 
do so. Primarily, the terms make clear that the monitoring and management of an accounts 
margin is the accountholders sole responsibility. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not consider that Plus500 was supposed 
to give Mr M prior notice of a margin call, instead I am satisfied that he was obliged to 
monitor and manage his accounts margin level at all relevant times.
The pre margin call account restoration that Plus500 applied to Mr Ms account  with the 
payment of almost £4,700 (almost his initial account deposit) in the process  reflects the 
notion that the margin call closures did not happen. Therefore, in real terms and with regards 
to events up to those closures, it no longer matters whether (or not) the margin call would 
have happened with or without the inaccurate prices. Plus500s response to Mr Ms claim for 
lost potential profit does not seek to reverse the above notion, so there is no need to debate 
it. 
The question that remains is about events after the margin call closures and about Mr Ms 
claim that his positions would have made around $30,000 profit which he has lost and 
should be compensated for. Plus500s rejection of this claim is based on its views that it is 
inherently speculative and that it cannot reasonably pay compensation for a loss claim on 
such a basis. 
I agree with Plus500. I acknowledge the calculation that Mr M has produced to support his 
claim, but it is inevitably based on hindsight of the markets that he did not have at/around the 
relevant time in May 2020; on hindsight of the markets that he has gained long after the 
relevant events; and on an arguably convenient portrayal of how he would have managed 
the closed positions. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that it establishes a 
credible claim for lost profit.
In other words, if the margin call did not happen, if the relevant positions remained opened at 
the end of 11 May 2020 (and/or into 12 May 2020) and based on the fact that Mr M would 
not have known then what he knows now about the relevant markets, there does not appear 
to be a credible basis to conclude how Mr M would certainly or probably (or even possibly) 
have managed the positions. He was engaged in trading in the account, not long-term investing. He could have held the positions over any period, from short to medium term or in 
between. He could have liquidated any or all the positions at any time to pursue any 
alternative opportunity or to safeguard against the risk loss, depending on liquidation timing 
he could have crystalized either a profit or loss in the process  and any alternative trades 
that were made could also have ended in either profit or in loss. 
It is fair to conclude that a number of uncertain variables apply to what could have happened 
if Mr Ms positions were not closed out, and they combine to show that a persuasive 
argument cannot reasonably be made in his case that potential future net profit has been 
lost. These variables do not appear to be reflected and/or addressed in his submissions 
about the lost profit he alleges.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded by Mr Ms claim for lost 
potential profit and I am not persuaded that he is entitled to more than the redress that 
Plus500 has already given him (including the £100 trouble and upset payment). I note his 
view that Plus500 has not adequately compensated for the distress the matter caused him. I 
disagree and I believe that the £100 payment was reasonable. I appreciate the distress he 
would likely have faced when he thought he had lost almost all of his account deposit on 
what seems to have been the first day of his trading in the account, but Plus500s redress 
returned that amount to him, which ought reasonably to have eased and then resolved such 
distress.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman