DRN-3945702
The complaint
Miss O complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) didnt let her know that the funds 
shed chosen when her pension first started werent available within her plan. Instead, it 
invested her pension contributions in default funds. Miss O thinks this has caused her a 
financial loss.
What happened
Miss O applied for a Group Stakeholder Pension Plan with SWL in February 2017. Miss O 
chose six different investment funds, which she clearly listed on her application form. She 
said she did her own research on the funds which shed chosen herself. 
SWL wrote to Miss O on 19 February 2017 to tell her that her application had been 
accepted. It also sent her an illustration which stated that her contributions would be 
invested. It said that 81.67% of the contributions would go into the Pension Portfolio Three 
fund and 18.33% would go into the Pension Portfolio Four fund. It also explained that the 
funds Miss O was invested in might change over time as she neared retirement.  
SWL wrote to Miss O again on 16 March 2017 to send her full policy information. It said this 
gave detailed information about the policy, including a breakdown of the funds invested in 
and the values related to these. The information also included a full list of all the funds 
available within Miss Os Group Stakeholder Pension Plan. But none of the six funds Miss O 
had originally chosen were listed.
SWL issued an annual pension benefit statement to Miss O on 2 May 2017. This included 
information about the funds Miss O was invested in. It also issued further annual benefit 
statements in 2018 and 2019, which also confirmed the investment funds being used. 
Miss O said she only found out in July 2021 that SWL hadnt followed her original 
contribution instructions. She complained to SWL on 7 July 2021. She felt that it had caused 
her a financial loss of almost £5,000. And had caused her stress and anxiety. Miss O wanted 
SWL to reimburse her for her financial loss. She also wanted compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused.
SWL told Miss O that shed originally selected funds which werent available under her type 
of pension plan. It said it shouldve got in touch with her to explain that the funds weren't 
available. But that it had put her in the scheme default. 
I understand that Miss O instructed SWL on 16 July 2021 to change her investment to being 
fully held in a fund which SWL said was considered an Adventurous fund. It said her original 
range of fund choices was considered to be between Balanced and Adventurous.
Miss O wrote to SWL on 19 July 2021. She sent it her original fund choices. And asked it to 
work out what returns she wouldve received if shed been able to choose the fund shed 
now chosen at the outset. 
SWL carried out the calculation Miss O requested and told her what the hypothetical fund 
value wouldve been if her benefits had been invested in the newly chosen fund from the 
outset. I understand that this calculation showed that if Miss O had been invested in her new 
fund choice from the start her pension wouldve been worth £17,652.27 rather than 
£12,731.64, as at 21 July 2021. 
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 21 October 2021. It agreed that it hadnt 
always provided Miss O with the level of service she shouldve expected. It apologised for its 
failure to respond directly to her fund instructions. And offered to pay her £300 for the 
concern this had caused. SWL also offered to pay Miss O £19 for call costs she may have 
incurred for calls shed made to it between July and September 2021.
SWL acknowledged that it had received Miss Os investment instruction on 14 February 
2017. And that this had included six funds. But said that the funds Miss O had chosen 
werent available under the pension type shed applied for, which was a Group Stakeholder 
Pension. SWL said the funds shed selected were only available through its Group Personal 
Pensions. 
SWL apologised for not telling Miss O that it couldnt carry out her investment instructions. 
And what would happen next. But said that as her instruction wasnt valid, itd correctly used 
default funds. It said these were Pension Portfolio Three and Pension Portfolio Four.
SWL didnt agree that it had failed to make Miss O aware of the funds her pension was 
invested in. It said that it had written to her on 19 February 2017 to confirm her pension had 
been opened. It said it had sent information about Miss Os pension, including which funds 
Miss Os contributions would be invested in, and showing an illustration based on the 
investment in those funds. It said these were shown as Pension Portfolio Three and Pension 
Portfolio Four. SWL said it also issued full policy information on 16 March 2017.
SWL also said that it issued an annual pension benefit statement to Miss O on 2 May 2017. 
And that these had been issued each May. It said these documents had also shown which 
funds Miss Os pension was invested in. It therefore felt that although it hadnt directly 
contacted Miss O about her original investment instruction, it had notified her which funds 
she was to be invested in. And that after her contributions had started it felt it had provided 
details of where the funds had been invested. It said it had never received any response 
from Miss O about the information. 
Miss O didnt agree with SWL. So she brought her complaint to this service. She also said 
that as her employer had changed the pension provider from SWL to another provider on 1 
September 2018, SWLs failure to inform her that it couldnt follow her instructions had also 
had a knock-on effect with the new provider. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that although 
SWL hadnt explicitly told Miss O that her original fund choices werent valid, it had sent her 
sufficient information for her to be able to notice it earlier. He also felt that SWLs offer was a 
fair one under the circumstances of the complaint. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss O. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.Its not in dispute that SWL failed to explicitly tell Miss O that it couldnt follow her original 
investment instructions as the funds shed chosen werent available within the pension plan 
shed opened. SWL has acknowledged that it shouldve got in touch with Miss O to explain 
that the funds weren't available. 
SWL put Miss O in the scheme default when it couldnt follow her original instructions. I need 
to decide whether this was a reasonable course of action under the circumstances.   
When SWL couldnt follow Miss Os specific investment instructions, it put her in the default 
funds it used for that pension type. SWLs default was to invest funds into Pension Portfolios 
Three and Four if it hadnt received a valid investment instruction. I consider this to be a 
reasonable course of action. I say this because it was clearly preferable for Miss Os money 
to be invested in reasonable alternative funds to the invalid ones shed chosen, rather than 
to be held in cash. And because SWL couldnt know how long it would take Miss O to 
choose alternative valid funds.
However, SWL didnt directly ask Miss O to choose alternative valid funds.  So I next 
considered whether SWLs failure to explicitly tell Miss O that shed chosen invalid funds led 
to a financial loss. 
As noted earlier, SWL has acknowledged that it shouldve told Miss O that it couldnt accept 
her original fund selection. If it had, she couldve chosen other valid funds, or stayed 
invested in the default funds SWL had put her into. Miss O said that this failure led to a 
financial loss.
From the evidence Ive seen, SWL sent Miss O three documents within the first three 
months of her pension starting. It initially sent a letter dated 19 February 2017, a few days 
after receiving Miss Os application, which confirmed where any funds would be invested. 
The letter said the following: 
Where will the payments be invested?
The payments will be invested using the Balanced targeting annuity Investment Approach, 
and will initially be invested in the funds shown below.
Fund Monthly Payments
Pens Portfolio Four 18.33%
Pens Portfolio Three 81.67%
I consider that this clearly shows that Miss Os contributions were to be invested in Pension 
Portfolios Three and Four. Theres no mention of the six individual funds Miss O had 
originally requested. So Im persuaded that Miss O shouldve noticed that this wasnt in line 
with her instructions. 
The first page of the 19 February 2017 letter said that Miss O should contact SWL if she had 
any questions. No money had been invested at the time SWL sent this letter. If Miss O had 
contacted SWL to question the investments listed, Im satisfied that its failure to explain what 
had happened to Miss O wouldve come to light. She wouldve then been able to choose 
new valid funds to invest in before her first contribution was made. 
Miss O has told this service that she remembered clicking on the weblinks behind Portfolio 
Three and Portfolio Four in February 2017. She said the links returned a blank page. So she 
assumed that Portfolio Three and Portfolio Four were just the names SWL used for her investments. She said she saw no reason to question SWL about this. 
Ive carefully considered Miss Os points. And while I acknowledge that she saw no cause for 
concern at this point, I consider that the fact that she tried to click on the weblinks shows that 
she was aware in early 2017 that the fund selection didnt look like what she was expecting. 
It didnt show the six funds shed selected. Instead, it referenced only two funds that had 
completely different names to the ones shed picked. 
Im satisfied that, based on the information SWL had sent to her in February 2017, Miss O 
shouldve asked it to explain why the funds appeared different to those shed selected. I say 
this because one of the reasons a business sends such information to its customers is so 
they can check it. But I havent seen any evidence that Miss O contacted SWL at this time.
If Miss O had contacted SWL in February 2017 to question where her contributions were to 
be invested, Im satisfied that she wouldve then been able to choose new valid funds to 
invest in before her first contribution was made. 
SWL also sent Miss O full policy information for her pension on 16 March 2017, AFTER her 
first contribution had been made. I consider that this also clearly showed that the money had 
been invested in Pension Portfolios Three and Four. 
SWL sent the first of a succession of annual Pension Benefit Statements on 2 May 2017. 
The 2 May 2017 annual statement gave the value of the funds held as £4,418.90 in Pension 
Portfolio Three and £3,364.29 in Pension Portfolio Four. It also stated that future payments 
would be invested in Pension Portfolio Three and Pension Portfolio Four. I consider that this 
also clearly showed that Miss Os pension contributions were going into Pensions Portfolios 
Three and Four, rather than the funds shed expected to be invested in.
Both SWL and Miss O had a responsibility to ensure that the information shared was correct. 
And although SWL never explicitly explained why it had defaulted Miss Os investments to 
Pension Portfolios Three and Four, Im satisfied that it sent Miss O sufficient clear and timely 
information that showed where the money was being invested. Therefore I dont agree that 
SWLs failure to explicitly tell Miss O about her invalid fund choices led to a financial loss.
SWL has offered to pay Miss O £300 for its failure to tell her it couldnt act in line with her 
original investment instructions, and the distress and inconvenience this caused her. Its also 
offered to cover the cost of the calls she had to make between July and September 2021. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable response and in line with what this service 
wouldve recommended. As such, I dont require SWL to amend its offer. And I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman