DRN-1658652
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after he was involved in an 
accident in May 2019.  
What happened
Mr G has motor insurance with UKI. In May 2019 he was involved in an accident. He told 
UKI he was driving in the middle lane towards a junction when a lorry in the inside lane 
changed lanes and hit the passenger side of his car. There were no independent witnesses 
to the accident but UKI agreed to contact the police to see if CCTV footage was available. 
The police confirmed the accident site was covered by cameras but said footage was only 
retained for seven days. As UKI had made contact outside of that timeframe it had already 
been deleted. 
UKI accepted it didnt take appropriate action to obtain the footage. But liability hadnt been 
accepted by the other side as the lorry driver said Mr G was the one who changed lanes and 
caused the collision. UKI said it therefore decided to settle the claim on what it viewed as the 
best possible terms given the available evidence (a 50/50 liability split). However, because of 
its failings in relation to obtaining the CCTV it said it would record the claim as no fault 
against Mr G and allow him to retain his no claims discount. It also offered to pay £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr G. 
Mr G was unhappy because he said the failure to obtain the CCTV footage had prejudiced 
the separate personal injury claim hed brought against the third party. He said the absence 
of CCTV footage led his solicitors to advise this claim should be settled on a 50/50 liability 
split basis. He thought UKI should pay the full cost of the claim.  
Our investigator agreed UKI had been at fault. But she thought the £100 it had offered for 
what it got wrong along with recording the claim as non fault and allowing Mr G to retain his 
no claims discount was fair. And without knowing what the CCTV footage would have shown 
it wasnt possible to say what (if any) difference this would have made to the outcome of his 
personal injury claim. So she didnt think it would be fair to ask UKI to pay the amount Mr G 
thought hed lost out on here. 
Mr G didnt agree. He reiterated that UKI had failed to obtain the CCTV footage and thought 
there had been a major financial impact on him as a result. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been an extremely difficult experience for Mr G. I know that in addition 
to the injuries he suffered its caused him a great deal of stress and I was sorry to learn 
about this. And its not in dispute UKI got something wrong here. Although it was aware 
there might be CCTV footage of the accident site it failed to proactively follow this up with the 
police. By the time it did so the footage was no longer available. Given the accident site was 
covered by CCTV it seems likely that if UKI had done more here it would have been able to 
obtain footage showing the accident location. 
However, where we think a failure to obtain evidence might have affected the decision as to 
how a claim like this was settled wed generally recommend the insurer record it as non fault. 
Thats what UKI has already done. Its also ensured there wont be an impact on Mr Gs no 
claims discount. So I agree with our investigator that its already done what wed expect 
here. 
The additional issue in this case is the personal injury claim Mr G was pursuing against the 
third party. Mr G believes this would have had a different outcome if the CCTV footage had 
been available. I accept that must at least be possible. Ive seen correspondence from his 
solicitors and its clear the absence of CCTV footage was a factor when they advised the 
claim should be settled on 50/50 liability basis. But I note it wasnt the only consideration; the 
absence of any independent witnesses to the incident and the contrary testimony from the 
other driver were also factors in this. 
And it isnt of course now possible to know what the CCTV footage would have shown. Of 
course it might have supported Mr Gs testimony  but its also possible that it would have 
supported the other drivers recollection or wouldnt have been sufficiently clear for a 
decision on liability to be reached. Taking all of that into account I dont think there is enough 
evidence for me to say theres likely to have been a different outcome to Mr Gs personal 
injury claim if the CCTV footage had been obtained. I accept Mr G was nevertheless caused 
distress and inconvenience by what UKI got wrong but, on balance, I think the £100 it has 
already agreed to pay does enough to recognise the impact of this on him. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think U K Insurance Limited has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman