DRN-3817459
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly pursuing her for a signature to allow it to 
register a charge on her property in respect of a mortgage she has outstanding.
What happened
Ms M took a £7,000 mortgage with Lloyds (then Cheltenham and Gloucester) in 1991. That 
was an equity release mortgage  usually designed to become repayable on the death of the 
borrower (last borrower where there is more than one). Lloyds says there was no contractual 
monthly payment on that mortgage.
Ms M took three further advances  one in 1996 and two in 1997, for £2,000, £3,000 and 
£3,000 respectively. The further advances were taken on an interest only basis. Lloyds says 
the contractual monthly payment (the interest on the three further advances) was partially 
met by DWP payments.
Ordinarily, when a mortgage is taken out, the conveyancing solicitor would arrange for a 
charge to be placed on the property deeds, in favour of the lender. The property then 
becomes the lenders security for the loan. Because of that security, the lender is able to 
offer the loan at a secured (mortgage) interest rate rather than an unsecured rate which 
would usually be significantly higher. In this case a charge wasnt placed on the property 
deeds.
Lloyds says it obtained a declaration from Ms Ms solicitor in 1991 confirming that it would 
arrange for the charge to be placed on the deeds in Lloydss favour. Lloyds has provided a 
copy of that declaration, signed by the solicitor.
Lloyds says it discovered it had no legal charge over Ms Ms property in 2015 and that the 
title was still in Ms Ms late husbands name. That was despite him passing before Ms M 
took the initial mortgage in 1991. Lloyds says the matter could have been resolved with a 
signature from Ms M, but, to date, she has refused to sign to allow Lloyds to obtain a legal 
charge. 
In 2019 Lloyds received a letter from Ms Ms solicitor. That said she was unwilling to sign the 
required documentation because there were other matters outstanding. Those matters were 
disputes about the amount still owing on the mortgage, the allocation of money from the 
department of work and pensions and the original sale of the mortgage. Those matters have 
not been resolved to Ms Ms satisfaction and the documentation required by Lloyds remains 
unsigned.
Lloyds has told us, in June 2020, it informed Ms Ms solicitor that it would start legal action if 
it didnt hear back from her to sign the documentation it required. In March 2021 Lloyds was 
told Ms M is vulnerable and wasnt able to visit a solicitor. In October 2021, Ms Ms solicitor 
was willing to review the documentation so that arrangements could then be made for Ms M 
to sign it. Ms Ms solicitor became non-responsive in 2022, so in June 2022 Lloyds drafted a 
demand for full repayment of the mortgage  it considered Ms M in default because the legal 
charge was a requirement of the mortgage according to its terms and conditions. Lloyds 
says Ms Ms solicitor did not respond to the demand, so it sent a Sheriff officer to serve it at 
Ms Ms home. But it reported that the property was gated and locked  and it didnt appear to 
be occupied. 
In summary, Lloyds says it has given Ms M ample opportunity to cooperate with the 
registration of the charge. And as it has no security on Ms Ms mortgage it has no option but 
to continue to pursue Ms M for full repayment of the outstanding balance. But, should Ms M 
sign the documents it requires, all legal action will cease immediately. 
Ms M is represented in this complaint by her son  Mr M. He says contact from solicitors 
about this issue is causing Ms M distress. He explained that she is in her nineties and has a 
number of health conditions. And Lloyds could have written to her politely about this but 
instead used solicitors. Mr M says Ms M is trying to establish the correct redemption figure 
for the mortgage with Lloyds  the subject of a separate complaint. And, if that were agreed 
there would be no need for her to sign additional documentation because she would redeem 
the mortgage.
Mr M also says Ms M has never refused to sign the documentation required by Lloyds. But 
her health concerns have made signing difficult in practice. And he says Lloyds should be 
open to discussing a fair redemption figure as Ms M still disputes the latest one provided by 
Lloyds.
In its final response letter dated 22 July 2022, Lloyds said it does not complete, register or 
amend legal charges  thats done by the conveyancing solicitor. Where it finds that wasnt 
done or completed correctly, it will take action to ensure its legal charge is secured over the 
mortgaged property. Lloyds said it instructed solicitors to act on its behalf to complete that 
work. It doesnt agree thats harassment  it is simply trying to correct an error made by a 
third party.
Ms M asked us to consider her complaint. Our investigator didnt find that Lloyds had treated 
Ms M unfairly. She said she thinks its reasonable for Lloyds to seek to have the legal charge 
put in place to secure the loan. And she thinks Lloyds has contacted Ms M in a reasonable 
manner.
Mr M, on behalf of Ms M, disagreed. He says its not appropriate to send court papers when 
Ms M is ill and bed ridden. He also said the mortgage will be repaid if Lloyds gives Ms M the 
correct redemption figure. And, he says, the monthly payments are being made, so Lloyds 
action and treatment of Ms M is shameful. Mr M says Ms M will sign the required 
documentation when her health improves.
As Ms M disagreed with our investigators findings, her complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to explain that Ive previously made a decision about issues Ms M 
has complained about in relation to her mortgage. In my decision of 6 October 2022, I said:
Well not consider Ms Ms complaint about the balance of her mortgage because an 
ombudsman previously made a decision on that issue.
We dont have the power to consider Ms Ms complaints that the mortgage was mis-
sold and that Lloyds allocated payments from the department of work and pensions to the wrong sub-accounts of her mortgage. Thats because Ms M referred those 
complaint points to us too late  after the six months she was allowed under our rules 
following Lloyds final response letter addressing those points.
That means, while Ms M still disagrees with Lloyds regarding those issues  particularly the 
issue relating to the amount outstanding on her mortgage  I cant and wont address those 
points in this decision. I know Ms Ms dispute about the amount outstanding on her mortgage 
is central to her reasoning not to sign the documentation Lloyds requires. But to decide this 
complaint Ive thought about whether its reasonable that Lloyds sought security for Ms Ms 
mortgage and whether it has acted fairly in trying to achieve that.
Ive considered the available documentation from the time of the original mortgage. Lloyds 
has provided a copy of a declaration it asked the conveyancing solicitor to sign  which it 
appears to have done. Lloyds says the declaration shows that the conveyancing solicitor 
was responsible for ensuring a charge was placed on the deeds, so it wasnt Lloyds that 
made the error. However, Ill not decide here whether Lloyds made the error or not  only 
whether its reasonable that Lloyds sought to correct that error and whether it did that fairly.
Lloyds has also provided a copy of the loan agreement dated 4 July 1991. The loan 
agreement says:
The loan shall be secured by a mortgage (standard security in Scotland) over the 
property which incorporates the Societys mortgage conditions. The mortgage 
(standard security) and the mortgage conditions are embodied and form part of this 
agreement.
From that, its clear to me that the loan taken by Ms M was always intended to be secured 
against her property (the property address was also noted on the loan agreement). 
For clarity Id explain that a loan becomes a mortgage when it is secured against a property 
 the property becomes security for the loan. In practice that means placing a legal charge 
on the title deeds. That doesnt appear to have happened in this case and that meant that 
Lloyds didnt have security on Ms Ms loan. Lenders are able to lend the amounts they do on 
mortgages at lower rates than other loans because they have the security of the property. In 
short, having the security of the property means the lender is able to take possession of the 
property and sell it to repay the balance outstanding if a borrower defaults on the loan.
So, in this case, the loan agreement shows that Lloyds intended for the loan to be secured 
by a charge on Ms Ms property. And that allowed it to take the risk of loaning her the 
amount she wanted at a mortgage rate. Without the security it may not have lent the money 
to her and wouldnt have done so at that rate. Ms M has therefore benefited from the money 
she borrowed and by being charged interest at a rate lower than she would have done had 
she applied for an unsecured loan.
From Lloyds point of view, I can see that it has unknowingly taken a much greater risk than 
it would ordinarily have agreed to because of the error not to place a legal charge on Ms Ms 
property deeds. Irrespective of the cause of that error, I think its reasonable that it sought to 
have it rectified. In doing so, it would bring the risk level down to what it would ordinarily 
accept and believed it was accepting when it agreed to make the loan to Ms M.
Ive seen no evidence to indicate that Ms M was aware of the error until Lloyds brought it to 
her attention. The loan agreement told her that the loan was to be secured on her property 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest she has knowingly benefited from the error. I think securing 
the loan now by way of placing a legal charge on the title deed would not change the 
position she agreed to be in when applying for and agreeing to the loan. Nor would it change the position she believed she was in up to the point Lloyds informed her of the error. So, I 
think its reasonable that Lloyds sought to have the loan secured  as both parties agreed it 
would be at the time it was taken out.
Mr M has written at length about the distress and anxiety Lloyds pursuit of his mothers 
agreement is causing her  given her age and general vulnerability. But hes not been 
specific about that apart from mentioning a home visit from a Sherriffs officer.
Generally, I think, to achieve the reasonable outcome Lloyds has sought, its fair that it made 
contact with Ms M  as it would need to communicate for any other reason. It appears from 
what Lloyds has told us that it initially attempted to contact Ms M via her solicitor. But when 
her solicitor became unresponsive and it received no response from Ms M directly, it decided 
on a home visit. From what Ive seen from Lloyds that decision wasnt taken lightly and it 
was initially delayed due to covid concerns. And when the Sherriff officer did visit the 
property, they didnt get to speak to Ms M and it appeared to them that she wasnt present or 
living there.
I havent seen that Lloyds has been unreasonable in its contact with Ms M and I dont think 
its unreasonable that its action has gone from asking her to sign the documentation it 
required to starting legal action. I say that because I dont think Ms M left it with an 
alternative, given that she and her solicitor appear to have stopped responding to Lloyds.
I understand that Ms M is vulnerable because of her age and health issues, but overall, I 
think the distress caused to her is the result of her non-cooperation with what I think is a 
reasonable request from Lloyds. I dont think Lloyds attempts to contact Ms M or the action 
it has taken is unreasonable in the circumstances.
From what Ive seen I think an agreement can be reached as Mr M says his mother is willing 
to sign the documentation required and Lloyds says it will cease legal action as soon as she 
does so. There may be practical concerns over obtaining Ms Ms signature and its 
reasonable that she expects Lloyds to be sensitive to those concerns. Essentially, I think 
both parties would be best served by communicating openly with a view to keeping Ms M in 
her home.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman