DRN-3016559
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as T, complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim 
for business interruption. Mrs N brings the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on T, because they were required to close for 
commercial use and could remain open only for limited prescribed purposes.
T held a business insurance policy with Aviva. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Aviva declined it. It said the policy primarily covered T for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 didnt cause damage. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at, or within a 10 mile 
radius of, Ts premises. But that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy 
covered. And it said there was no cover for the expiry of their stock in the absence of any 
issues with the refrigeration unit. 
T felt their economic losses, and the deterioration of their stock, met the policy definition of 
damage. They argued that the policy appeared to cover the consequences of any Act of 
Parliament, as well as the confiscation of their right to trade. They highlighted extracts from 
certain general exclusions which say they wont be applied to business interruption claims, 
and a letter theyd received which said their business interruption cover would protect them 
from unexpected positive trends. 
Theyd understood that the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case established that the list of 
diseases Aviva sought to rely on was ambiguous. And that both Covid-19 and the resultant 
prevention of access should be treated as damage. Our investigator thought that the policy 
terms had been applied fairly. T didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on T had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Aviva 
should have met their claim. 
Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the elements of cover most 
relevant to Ts circumstances below. The burden of proof initially rests with T to show, on 
balance, theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover in Ts policy is for:
loss of Income resulting from Damage to Property Insured used by You at The 
Premises for the purpose of The Business to the extent of Cover under the Property 
Damage Section...
There are also extensions to this cover. Aside from the extension relating to Disease, which 
Ive addressed separately, the most relevant of the extensions are for Prevention of Access 
and Loss of Attraction. These cover T for:
loss of Income resulting from Damage to property in the vicinity of The 
Premises by any cause included under the Property Damage Section which hinders 
or prevents access to The Premises. 
loss of Income resulting from Damage to property in the vicinity of The 
Premises by any cause insured under the Property Damage Section, which causes a 
loss of custom to The Business directly due to reduction in customers visiting the 
area. 
T have Property Damage All Risks cover. Damage is defined in that section of the policy 
as accidental loss, destruction or damage. The definition of Damage given in the Business 
Interruption section is As described in the Property Damage Section. All of the above terms 
are based on an interruption to the business caused by damage to property. Therefore, T 
must show theres been accidental loss, destruction or damage to property. 
Ive kept in mind the judgment reached in TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] 
EWHC 2710 (Comm). In this case, the judge accepted that the meaning of the word loss in 
property damage insurance usually has a physical element. 
The judge noted that the immediate context included the words destruction and damage 
(as it does here), and that those words strongly suggest that loss here is intended to 
have a physical aspect. They therefore concluded that the definition of damage wouldnt 
encompass a mere temporary loss of use, as the word loss referred to a physical loss 
rather than an economic one. 
T feel that a broader definition of damage should be applied to encompass their economic 
losses, and have referred to the case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority in support 
of this. But this only affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. (It 
also didnt seek to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of 
diseases which doesnt include Covid-19, as is the case here). 
Based on the above caselaw, I think any loss would need to have had a physical element. 
Setting aside Ts stock for a moment, Ive not seen evidence to satisfy me that Covid-19, 
the Governments response to it, or the limits on Ts ability to trade caused a physical loss or 
physical damage to the types of property mentioned in either the core business interruption 
cover in Ts policy, or the extensions to this cover requiring damage.  
In terms of the deterioration of Ts stock, Ive considered the extent to which this might be 
covered under the Asset Protection  Frozen Foods section of the policy under a later 
heading. But Ive thought here about whether it can be considered Damage that would be 
covered under the Property Damage section, and whether it resulted in a loss of income.
In TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm) the claimants made 
a similar argument that the deterioration of their stock constituted damage to property, and 
that this resulted in the interruption of their business (although in this case the policy only 
requires the damage to have caused a loss of income). One of the judges conclusions was that what was alleged to have happened to the stock 
wasnt accidental, as the natural process of decay or deterioration isnt accidental. Rather, it 
was caused by inherent vice and / or gradual deterioration, both of which were excluded 
under the relevant section of the policy in question. 
Ts policy also contains an exclusion for gradual deterioration. As in the legal case Ive 
described, I think what is alleged to have happened to the stock is something that was 
caused by gradual deterioration, rather than accidental loss, destruction or damage. So, I 
dont think the deterioration of Ts stock is covered under the Property Damage section. 
Given the core Business Interruption cover only applies in the event of Damage to Property 
Insured to the extent of Cover under the Property Damage Section and the two relevant 
extensions only apply in the event of Damage by an cause included / insured under the 
Property Damage Section I dont think the claim would be covered by that section either. 
Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation 
T highlight their policy covers them for loss of income resulting from the occurrence of:
(a) an illness sustained by any person caused by food or drink poisoning attributable 
to food or drink supplied from The Premises
(b) Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever sustained by any person
(i) at The Premises
(ii) within a radius of 10 miles of The Premises which directly results in 
the cancellation of bookings for accommodation and other services 
provided at The Premises
(c) Vermin or pests at The Premises
(d) An accident which causes defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at 
The Premises
where use of The Premises is restricted on the order or advice of the competent 
authority.
(e) murder or suicide at The Premises.
Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases in the list under part (b), to which sub-parts (i) 
and (ii) correspond. Therefore, part (b) wouldnt cover interruption caused by the restrictions 
introduced to combat the spread of Covid-19, even if T could show there was an occurrence 
of it at their premises. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Aviva might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. In contrast, Ts policy includes a list of specific diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied the list 
has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to occurrences of those diseases mentioned in 
the list. I dont think the list is ambiguous, and Im not aware of any caselaw to the contrary. 
T have added that the government closure clause does not state to which it allows 
payments to be made just that any act of Parliament forcing closure another point to which 
we believe coverage. 
It isnt necessarily clear which part of the policy theyre referring to here. I can see that below 
part (d), the extension says, where use of the Premises is restricted on the order or advice 
of the competent authority. But I think its clear from the formatting that this serves as a 
qualifier to parts (a) to (d). It isnt an insured event in itself.  
Other sections of the policy 
In Ts submissions, theyve highlighted another reference to Acts of Parliament in the policy 
wording. Its in the policy conditions, not within the list of things the policy covers. It says, all 
references to Acts of Parliament within this Section wording include equivalent legislation in 
Scotland, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands as the case may be. 
Im not satisfied this could reasonably be interpreted as cover for the consequences of any 
Act of Parliament. It just clarifies that where the policy refers to Acts of Parliament, this 
includes the equivalent legislation in other parts of the UK. 
Theyve also highlighted extracts of some of the general exclusions, which they feel show 
Aviva agreed not to exclude claims for business interruption. Ive given an example of one of 
these extracts below:
However, We shall not exclude any claim for subsequent loss or destruction of or 
damage to any property or consequential loss which itself results from a Defined 
Contingency arising under any of the following sections, but only to the extent that 
such claim would otherwise be insured under that Section.
(1) Property Damage
(2) Money and Assault
(3) Computer
(4) Business Interruption.
Ive underlined the above sentence to emphasise that, while this extract qualifies the scope 
of the exclusion(s), it doesnt broaden the Business Interruption cover, or serve as a general 
reassurance that no claims for Business Interruption, regardless of cause, will be excluded. 
The terms of the Business Interruption cover remain as set out in that section of the policy. 
Its for T to show, on balance, that the terms of that cover have been satisfied, and Ive given 
my thoughts on that above. 
T have referred to a document they received which included the phrase:
This will also provide some additional protection in the event that the income you 
asked us to base your cover on was not sufficient to cater for things such as an 
unexpected positive trend in your business income during the year. Reading the whole document though, it just highlights the benefit of the sum insured for 
Business Interruption having been increased to a minimum of £1,000,000. I dont think it 
suggests that any unexpected event impacting a businesss income will be covered. 
Finally, T have argued the policy covers them for confiscation. And have sought to argue 
their right to trade was confiscated. But the only reference I can find in the policy documents 
to confiscation is in various descriptions of events that are specifically excluded from cover. 
Ts claim for the deterioration of its stock 
Ive already considered whether theres cover for this under the Property Damage and 
Business Interruption sections of the policy. There is also cover for Frozen Foods, but this 
only applies if the deterioration is caused by:
(1) a change in temperature as a result of
(a) the breaking, distortion or burning out of any part of the 
(i) unit
(ii) unit wiring
(iii) supply cable to the unit, including the plug and fuse
(b) failure of temperature controls to operate correctly
(c) accidental failure of the public electricity supply but only if this is not 
deliberately caused by the supply authority
(2) accidental leakage of refrigerant or refrigerant fumes from the unit.
None of those things are alleged to have happened here, so Im satisfied theres no cover for 
the deterioration of Ts stock under this section of the policy either. 
I havent found T have shown that an insured event has taken place. So, while I appreciate 
this is likely to come as a disappointment, Im not asking Aviva to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman