DRN-4321259
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed his accounts 
without providing an explanation or warning. Mr J says this caused him unnecessary 
inconvenience and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr J was a long standing customer of NatWest. He had four accounts which he has 
explained had a number of direct debit payments set up on it to pay his bills, and loan 
repayments. Mr J has told us that he works abroad and uses his accounts to make 
payments to his children and receive his wages.
In November 2022, NatWest blocked and reviewed Mr Js accounts. This meant Mr J wasnt 
able to access the money in his accounts. The accounts were blocked between 4 and 10 
November 2022. Following this, on 21 November 2022, NatWest decided to close Mr Js 
accounts and wrote to him giving him 60 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements.
Mr J complained to NatWest. He said he hadnt done anything wrong regarding how he used 
his accounts and had always maintained them properly. So, he said the bank had no good 
reason to block and close his accounts. He said he had previously told the bank that he was 
working overseas, and that he was earning more than he did when working in the UK and 
doing double shifts which was why more money was coming into the account. He said all the 
money in his account was legitimate earnings and that NatWests actions had made him feel 
like a criminal. 
In response, NatWest wouldnt give him much information. It said it had blocked and closed 
his accounts in line with the account terms and conditions and its regulatory obligations. 
NatWest  also said it wasnt obliged to provide Mr J with an explanation behind the block and 
closure. So, it didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Mr J told us that hed been a good customer of 
the bank since 2009.  He said the accounts were his main accounts and NatWests actions 
had caused him a lot of stress and worry  especially as he had around £14,000 in the 
accounts and his children relied on him sending money to them for everyday expenses. He 
said he had to borrow money from friends which was upsetting and embarrassing. Mr J says 
all the money in his accounts was from his overseas job, which was well paid. He provided 
copies of his wage slips as evidence to support what he said about the source of funds.
The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about why it had blocked and  
closed Mr Js accounts. But NatWest said it couldnt provide anything more than it had 
already provided to us. The bank maintained that it hadnt treated Mr J unfairly when it had 
blocked and closed his accounts. It also pointed out that during the notice period Mr J had 
full access to his accounts, so he could have withdrawn his funds during this time.
The investigator said based on the limited information the bank had provided, he couldnt 
say the bank had treated Mr J fairly when it had blocked and closed his accounts. So, he 
said NatWest should pay Mr J £100 compensation for any trouble and upset the block and 
closure of his accounts had caused him. NatWest accepted what the investigator said. Mr J 
didnt. He said that £100 compensation isnt enough for the amount of trouble and upset he 
has suffered. He said he hasnt done anything wrong and wants to know why NatWest 
blocked and closed his accounts  especially as hed previously told the bank everything it 
needed to know about how he was using his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit NatWest to block an 
account. This means NatWest is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Banks are also entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is 
done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. In this instance the terms of Mr Js accounts say that in certain instances 
NatWest can close the accounts with immediate notice and by providing 60 days notice to a 
customer. And it doesnt have to provide a reason for doing so. 
NatWest wrote to Mr J in November 2022, giving him 60 days notice that it was closing his 
accounts and that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements.
I understand Mr J wants NatWest to explain the reason it blocked and closed his accounts.   
It cant be pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a customer  especially after 
being a customer of NatWest for as long as Mr J had. But NatWest doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts to its customers. Its under no obligation 
to tell Mr J the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. 
Its also under no obligation to provide Mr J with the reasons it no longer wants him as a 
customer. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr J this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Js accounts. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. 
However, NatWest still needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, NatWest has failed to provide 
information about why it no longer wanted Mr J as a customer and blocked his accounts. 
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons it closed Mr Js accounts. This service has the power to request 
evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not persuaded the 
reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these rules. So, in this particular 
case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that NatWest has treated Mr J 
fairly when it blocked and closed his accounts. Taking this into account, like the investigator, 
I agree that NatWest  should pay Mr J compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
blocking and closing his accounts.
NatWest agreed to pay £100 as recommended by the investigator. Having considered what 
Mr J has told us about how the block and  closure of his accounts impacted him, Ive no 
doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. He also had to go to the trouble of 
opening new bank accounts and borrow money from others to pay for everyday living costs 
whilst his accounts were blocked for six days. But having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, I havent found grounds to increase the level of 
compensation. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr J was caused. So, while Mr J may disagree with 
me, I wont be asking NatWest to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should: 
Pay Mr J £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank blocking 
and closing his accounts
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman