DRN-4331048
The complaint
Mr M complains that Devitt Insurance Services Ltd unfairly cancelled his motor insurance 
policy and charged him the full years premiums. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr M took out a motor insurance policy through Devitt. He was asked to 
provide proof of his no claims discount with his previous insurer, which he did, and cover 
was put in place.
In March 2023 Mr M was involved in an incident with a cyclist and a claim was made on his 
policy. At which time Devitt asked Mr M to provide his photocard and paper counterpart 
driving licence, the vehicle registration document, a utility bill, and proof of occupation. 
Mr M contacted Devitt to cancel his insurance. He said that whilst he could provide the 
information requested, he didnt want to as he felt that hed been profiled and targeted for 
fraud. 
Devitts advisor asked Mr M if he had any open claims. He said he did, but he wasnt sure if 
it was under this policy or the previous one. The advisor explained theyd be a cancellation 
charge of £75, which Mr M was unhappy with. The advisor attempted to explain the reason 
why the documents had been requested, but Mr M interrupted them several times and 
became abusive on the call. After a warning was given by the advisor, the call was 
terminated.
When Devitt didnt receive the documents requested, the policy was cancelled. And it 
explained to Mr M that as a claim was ongoing under the policy, hed need to pay the full 
years premium. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and didnt pay it. Devitt later said it would accept half of the 
premiums, but Mr M raised a complaint which he brought to our service. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She said Devitt had given incorrect information about 
the cancellation fee and failed to tell Mr M that hed be liable for the full premiums. She 
recommended it pay £100 compensation.
Devitt accepted this outcome, but Mr M didnt. He said that had he known hed have to pay 
for the full year, he wouldve provided the documents requested and left the policy in place. 
As Mr M didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a condition of Mr Ms policy that after any loss, damage, or accident, he must give his 
insurer all information they ask for. Its not uncommon for insurers to request information at 
the time of a claim in order to validate a policy. And whilst I can understand why Mr M 
wouldve been surprised and concerned by this, the insurer is entitled to make that request 
and Devitt had simply passed on the message. So I cant fairly say Devitt has done anything 
wrong here.
When Mr M called to cancel his insurance policy, Devitts advisor asked Mr M if he had any 
open claims. I assume this was to explore what refund, if any, was due to Mr M. And whilst 
he did say he had an open claim, he wasnt sure if it was under this policy or not. So it 
wouldnt have been clear to the advisor whether Mr M was entitled to a refund of premiums. 
Despite this, they told Mr M he would get a refund and hed be liable for a cancellation fee.
The advisor shouldve checked this information, especially as it turned out to be incorrect. Mr 
Ms open claim was under this policy, so hes liable for the full years premium. This is 
because the contract he has with his insurer is for a year and the price of that contract is 
payable upfront. Whilst Mr M may have opted to pay his premium in monthly instalments, his 
insurers wouldve received the premium in full from Devitt, with Mr M repaying the cost under 
a finance agreement. When a claim is made and covered by the policy, the insurer has 
fulfilled the contract and isnt liable to return any of those funds.
I understand Mr Ms claim is still ongoing. And if his insurers are able to recover its outlay, 
Mr M will be entitled to a pro rata refund of his premiums. But as it stands, he isnt. 
Mr M told us that had he known this, he wouldnt have cancelled his policy and hed have 
just provided the documents. But when Mr M called Devitt, he was clear that he wanted to 
cancel the policy. He didnt ask what the costs implications were and whilst he was 
incorrectly informed about them, hed already made his mind up to cancel regardless. So Im 
not persuaded that he wouldve acted any differently had he known.
Devitt has offered to accept half of the premiums, which amount to £576.34. I think this is a 
generous offer, and it should allow Mr M the option to pay this in instalments should he need 
to. And if the insurers do recover its outlay, any refund due to Mr M should be paid or 
deducted from the outstanding balance. 
I agree with our Investigator that compensation should be paid for the incorrect information 
given to Mr M. And Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the impact this error wouldve had on 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Devitt Insurance Services 
Ltd to pay compensation of £100 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman