DRN-3466645
The complaint
Miss J complains that Santander UK Plc, as the receiving bank, did not do enough to help
her when she raised concerns about payments shed made.
Miss J has also complained about the sending bank. That matter is being considered as part
of a separate complaint, so in this decision I am only looking at the actions of Santander.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that
it is difficult for Miss J to have to recollect all of the details of what she has been through.
I have provided an overview of only the most essential facts here.
Between 11 March 2019 and 26 December 2019 Miss J made 17 payments totalling
£50,291 to a Santander customers account.
Miss J knew the beneficiary of the funds personally. Miss J has explained she sent money to
her ex-partner on the understanding that she would be paid back if the relationship ended.
Miss J says her ex-partner was using the money to repay debts so he could get a mortgage
because he wanted to buy a house. She adds that some of the money was used towards
holidays and spending money. The relationship came to an end in December 2019, but
Miss Js ex-partner did not repay any of the money. She says he was out from the start to
take advantage of her.
On 6 February 2020, Miss J contacted her bank and reported that she had been the victim of
a romance scam. Less than an hour after Miss J had reported the situation, her bank
contacted Santander. It explained Miss J had raised concerns about payments shed made
and was potentially the victim of a scam. Santander placed a stop on the beneficiary account
and investigated further. Ultimately, Santander was unable to assist as none of the funds
Miss J had sent remained.
Unhappy with Santanders position, Miss J made a complaint. On 5 November 2020,
Santander issued its final response. It said it was not liable for the loss Miss J has suffered.
It explained that when reaching that decision it had considered the circumstances which led
Miss J to make payments to the account, the operation of the account before Miss J reported
what had happened and the banks actions when it received the report of a potential scam.
Miss J asked us to consider the matter. Our Investigator concluded she was unable to fairly
ask Santander to refund Miss J. She didnt think the payments Miss J had made were
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code), which was
established to provide protection for customers who fall victim to authorised push payment
scams. She concluded the matter was a civil dispute and that she was unable to fairly ask
Santander to do anything further.
Miss J asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh, so the matter has been
referred to me.
My provisional decision
On 12 April 2022 I issued my provisional decision. I have reproduced my provisional 
decision in italics below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Santander to refund the
money Miss J sent. I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss J. Shes told us how much
shes struggling with the emotional and financial strain of what happened. It is not my
intention to add to her distress at an already difficult time. But I will explain why I am minded
reaching this conclusion.
Miss J made payments to the Santander account for around nine months. During this time, a
voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) came
into force.
The CRM Code sets out when banks (so both sending banks and receiving banks) should
reimburse a scam victim and it provides increased protection for customers have fallen
victim to a scam. It is not retrospective. When considering what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this individual complaint, Ive thought about whether Santander should take
some responsibility for Miss Js loss and also about how the CRM Code applies for the
payments Miss J made following the CRMs introduction on 28 May 2019.
The payments Miss J made before the introduction of the CRM Code
My role here is limited to deciding whether or not Santander reasonably did enough to
prevent, or respond to, the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And if it did not
whether its acts or omissions resulted in Miss Js loss.
Ive thought about whether Santander should take any responsibility for the loss Miss J has
suffered because it opened an account which potentially facilitated a scam.
But an account later found to have been utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt
automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it definitively mean that the
recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent the loss.
What I need to consider is whether at the time of opening the account the bank ought
reasonably to have known it would later be used fraudulently. In deciding this Ive considered
whether Santander had measures and processes in place to prevent accounts being opened
for criminal purposes and whether the beneficiary account was opened correctly and in line
with Santanders legal and regulatory obligations around Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
From what Santander has said, there was nothing out of the ordinary about its customers
account that ought to have raised suspicion at the time it was opened.Ive also thought about whether Santander ought reasonably to have had concerns about the
way the beneficiary account was running. Santander has said that the account was
operating normally and that it had received no notifications of potential fraud before Miss Js
report. I have carefully reviewed the account activity against what Santander knew about its
customer. There are no indications that anything untoward was happening and nothing
irregular enough that Santander ought to have intervened in the operation of its customers
account at the time that Miss J was making payments into it. Ive not seen anything that
makes me think Santander ought to have been concerned about the possibility of fraud
before Miss J made her report.
Ive also thought about what Santander did once it learnt of Miss Js concerns. But I dont
think it could have reasonably done anything more to try and limit Miss Js loss. It took action
to discuss the situation with its account holder but by that point, Miss Js money had already
been paid away.
From what I have seen, Santander has not made any errors in the handling of its customers
account, the payments it received from Miss J and her subsequent claim for potential fraud.
I dont think Santander reasonably could have prevented Miss Js loss or that it has failed in
its response to being notified of a potential APP fraud.
The payments Miss J made after the introduction of the CRM Code
For some of the payments Miss J made, the Lending Standards Boards voluntary
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) was in force. Santander has signed up
to the CRM Code and it covers detection, prevention and response to APP scam payments.
But I dont think Santander is responsible for reimbursing Miss J because of any obligation
under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the
supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Our Investigator felt the payments Miss J made after the CRM Code came in were not
covered because they formed part of a civil dispute.
Miss J feels strongly that her own experience and dealings with her ex-partner indicate the
nature of their relationship was a scam. She has also provided details of cases reported in
the media where romantic partners have tricked and manipulated victims to obtain money
under false pretences.I accept that it is possible for romance scammers to target both people that they have met
only online and people that they have gotten to know through ongoing face to face
interactions. It is not the method used by a fraudster that is determinative here, but rather,
what their intention was. In this case, the relevant question to determining whether the
payments Miss J made after the introduction of the CRM Code are afforded its protection is
whether Miss Js ex-partner set out to obtain money by deceiving her.
But it is difficult for me to be as sure as I would need to be that Miss Js ex-partner had
always intended to defraud her. On balance, I am unable to safely say this situation meets
the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. It is very difficult for me to establish
that Miss Js ex-partner was willingly and intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately
setting out to scam Miss J at the time he asked her for money. I dont have the power to
compel her ex-partner to provide me with evidence, or to cross-examine him or to have him
cross-examined in order to try and establish what his true intentions were.
As such, I dont think it is unfair to conclude the payments made fall outside of the scope of
the CRM Code.
Overall
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss J. I know this wasnt the answer she was
hoping for. It is clear that this situation and its aftermath has been and continues to be very
difficult for Miss J. She has been betrayed by someone she trusted. But my role as a
Financial Ombudsman is limited to determining whether Santander bears any responsibility
for Miss Js financial loss.
For the reasons I have explained, I consider that the payments Miss J made fall outside of
the scope of the CRM Code. Ive not seen any evidence to show that Santander has acted
incorrectly or that it ought to have done more than it did to assist Miss J when it learnt of the
situation that she was in. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that
Santander should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for her loss.
It follows that I am not currently minded to make any order or award.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I was not minded to uphold the complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider. 
Santander confirmed it had received the provisional decision and had no further information 
or comments to add.
Miss J did not make any comments specifically about the Santander complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusion reached in my provisional decision, which is summarised above 
and forms part of this final decision. It sets out my reasons in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Santander UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman