DRN-3595154
The complaint
Mrs M complains about One Insurance Limiteds (One) handling of a claim she made 
under her contents policy.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs Ms husband spilt a drink on their carpet. Believing the policy provided 
extended accidental damage cover, she called One to make a claim. One declined Mrs Ms 
claim, saying the policy didnt cover damage caused by food or drink. 
Mrs M had held a policy for a number of years and said she had previously had a similar 
claim covered. Mrs M said the change in what was covered under the accidental damage 
section ought to have been drawn to her attention, as this was a key factor in her taking out 
the insurance policy in 2016. She complained to One. 
In February 2022, One responded to Mrs Ms complaint. It said that while there had 
previously been cover for similar circumstances, it was able to make changes to the cover it 
offered. The policy terms changed in 2018 and it was satisfied Mrs Ms broker had provided 
the updated policy wording each time the policy renewed. It wouldnt cover the claim.
Unhappy with Ones response, Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. It was 
considered by an investigator who didnt think One had acted unfairly. As Mrs M didnt 
agree, this matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M says shes held this policy for several years and early on, made a claim in similar 
circumstances that was accepted. One says that in 2018, Mrs M asked that the policy no 
longer auto-renew and following this point, documentation about the policy was sent by post 
and available in the online portal. One says there may have been telephone contact with Mrs 
M too, but it cant show when this occurred. However, it says the policy documents as 
standard said that the policy terms should be reviewed in order to ensure the policy still met 
her needs. 
Mrs M says the cover for accidental damage for food and drink spillages was one of her 
requirements when she initially took out the policy. One says this exclusion came into effect 
in October 2018, during the same year Mrs M took the decision not to auto renew her policy. 
I cant be sure what information was given to Mrs M when the policy was renewed in 2018. 
This is because neither party have been able to provide a copy of those policy documents. 
Mrs M says she hasnt retained them, and One says as a result of a cyber incident, it no 
longer has these documents. So, I cant be certain what would or wouldnt have been said 
about drawing Mrs Ms attention to any changes in the policy.
With this in mind, Ive reviewed the renewal documents provided when Mrs M took out the 
policy in 2021. These say:
Contents  Accidental Damage
What Is Not Covered?
This policy will not cover any loss or damage due to accidental damage to contents
covered by any section or clause in your home policy booklet. We will not pay for any
exclusion, limitation or excess listed in the extended accidental damage section of 
your
home policy for contents.
We Will Not Pay for:
3. Additional Exclusions  loss and damage caused to, from:
 Food, drink
Im satisfied the exclusion is clearly laid out, clarifying damage caused by food and drink 
would not be covered.  
I appreciate Mrs M felt by purchasing a policy offering extended accidental damage, the 
situation she found herself should have been covered. But an insurance policy isnt required 
to cover every eventuality a customer might face. An insurer isnt required to offer a policy 
that provides cover for every possible scenario in which a claim might be offered. 
While Mrs M might have originally taken her policy out via the broker on an advised basis in 
2016, I havent seen anything to suggest either the 2018 or the 2021 policies were taken out 
on an advised basis. This means they werent recommended to Mrs M, and it was for her to 
decide if the cover being offered was acceptable and if she wanted to renew the policy each 
year. 
I note the renewal document sent to Mrs M in July 2021 specifically asked her to check the 
renewal quote to ensure the cover was still appropriate for her needs. Mrs M says she didnt 
feel it was her place to have to check the policy documents and she assumed the cover she 
opted for when she first took out the policy wouldnt have changed. But thats not the case  
insurers will often make changes to policy wordings. 
Im satisfied the renewal documentation sent to Mrs M in July 2021 was sufficiently clear in 
asking her to ensure the policy still offered the level of cover she required before renewing 
the policy. And Im satisfied the policy terms were sufficiently clear in setting out that the 
circumstances under which Mrs M wanted to claim for are excluded. Im not going to require 
One to take any further action to put things right.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman