DRN-3397572
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the refusal of his claim under his pet insurance policy with 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C & G ). 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, the main part of which is 
copied below: 
In April 2021, Mr C dog suffered a cruciate ligament injury. Mr C submitted a claim to C & G 
for the treatment costs but it refused the claim, as it said the dog had first shown signs of a 
cruciate ligament problem in 2017 and as Mr C had not disclosed this when he took out the 
policy in January 2020, it considered this to be a case of careless misrepresentation. C & G 
applied a retrospective exclusion to the policy for any claims relating to the stifles, hip, pelvis, 
back and spine, as it said this is what it would have done if it had known the dogs history 
when Mr C took out the policy. 
Mr C is very unhappy about this as he says he is being accused of lying on the claim form 
and in the application for the policy. Mr C says he did not misrepresent any conditions or fail 
to disclose any conditions, as the dog didnt have any. The dog had a sore leg in 2017 which 
lasted a few days and the vet told them it was nothing to worry about. The vet has said this 
incident is not linked to the claim in 2021. Mr C wants the claim met and compensation for 
the upset caused to him. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered that C & G was entitled to take the action it did. 
Mr C does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Is the claim excluded on the basis it is a pre-existing condition? 
Mr Cs policy, like most other pet policies, does not cover pre-existing conditions. It says: 
What is not insured? Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing 
Condition. 
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms before 
Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period. 
Pre-Existing Condition means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated 
Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any 
form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period. 
So it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this 
definition and exclusion but the symptoms which occur before the start of the policy must be 
a clinical sign or symptom of the condition claimed for. So in this case, this means that C & 
G must establish that the problems in 2017 are linked, were a clinical sign of, the later 
problem in April 2021. 
Mr Cs dog was seen by the vets in August 2017 when she presented with left hindlimb 
lameness. The vets notes of the attendance in 2017 record that the dog had been lame for 
two/three days and while it was improving shed yelped when her hip was touched and she 
was reluctant to jump up. The vet records show he recommended rest and intended to 
arrange an x-ray of the stifles, hips and spine. 
C & G says that this attendance in 2017 was a clinical sign of a cruciate ligament problem 
and it was therefore a pre-existing condition and excluded from cover. It also says that Mr C 
should have disclosed this in answer to questions put to him when he took out the policy. 
However, the dog was seen a few days later and the vet records dog now moving very well 
and cannot elicit any stiffness. spasm or pain in hind legs or lumbar, o aware as on metacam 
may recur and still need xray in future. It seems therefore the x-rays were no longer thought 
necessary and theres no reference to any recurrence of any issues in her hind limbs until 
this claim four years later. 
Mr Cs vet also wrote in relation to the claim and said: 
there was neither actual nor perceived evidence that the stifle joints were in anyway 
damaged either at the time of the initial condition or at inception of the policy. The period of 
time (years) of normal leg function between the two incidents in time and the difference in 
clinical presentation is so marked as to make a causal link impossible, and to judge that my 
client is guilty of misrepresentation is scandalous. 
The vet that saw the dog in 2017 is adamant that there is no link and that the period of time 
between the two incidences of lameness is enough to rule out a link between them.
It seems to me that the evidence from the time and the recent evidence from the vet support 
Mr Cs position that the visit in 2017 was for a one-off lameness and I do not consider that C 
& G has established that the dog was suffering from a cruciate ligament issue before Mr C 
took out the policy. I do not therefore think it is entitled to refuse the claim on the basis that it 
was pre-existing. 
Can C & G apply retrospective exclusions that mean the claim is not met? 
Our approach is in line with the relevant law on this issue, The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer 
fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Ive considered the circumstances of this case to consider whether C & G fairly added the exclusions given our approach, in line with CIDRA. 
When Mr C bought the policy online he was taken through various questions and options. 
The part relevant to this complaint is the following: 
Any medical conditions, illnesses or accident that happened before his new policy 
starts will not be covered. 
Do you want to cover any pre-existing medical conditions? 
Yes / No 
There is also a statement on the same page which says that a pre-existing condition is any 
illness, injury, symptom, or sign of a condition that happened before your new policy begins.
C & G says this was enough to elicit disclosure of the 2017 issue. I do not agree. There is no 
clear question about any previous symptoms, whether resulting in a diagnosis of a condition 
or not. In my opinion, it is not clearly asking an applicant about any symptoms or issues the 
dog has had but rather asks if cover is wanted for pre-existing conditions. 
I do not think it was clear that Mr C was aware that his dog had what C & G would have 
considered a condition. His vet has said there was no evidence (actual or perceived) that the 
stifle joints were damaged in 2017 and that Mr C was told it was likely to just be a temporary 
injury. I dont think Mr C failed to take reasonable care when answering the question he was 
asked about his dog on the application form, so I dont think C & G can alter the contract it 
entered into on the basis its now found out about an episode of lameness in 2017.
I appreciate that C & G might have applied the exclusions if it known about the 2017 episode 
of lameness but as Mr C didnt fail to take reasonable care, its not though any fault on his 
part that he didnt let C & G know. CIDRA only allows C &G to alter the terms of the policy if 
a qualifying misrepresentation has been made. And as explained, Mr C didnt fail to take 
reasonable care, so, there is no qualifying misrepresentation. 
So, to put things right I think C & G should continue to offer cover on the terms the contract 
as it was entered into. 
Compensation 
I can understand that the wrongful refusal of this claim and the suggestion that Mr C had not 
taken sufficient care when applying for the policy has caused Mr C unnecessary trouble. I 
therefore consider that the sum of £150 should also be paid as compensation for this.
My provisional decision 
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd to do the following: 
1. pay Mr Cs claim, in line with the policy limit and any applicable excess. If Mr C 
shows that he has paid the vets bill it must add simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year to the claim payment from the date of claim until the date of settlement; 
2. remove the exclusions it retrospectively applied to the policy; and 
3. pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
incorrect refusal of his claim. Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr C has confirmed he accepts my provisional decision and has nothing more to add. 
C & G does not accept my provisional decision. It says: 
It disagrees that the occurrence of lameness in 2017 cannot reasonably be 
associated with the cruciate ligament rupture in 2021. 
The lameness started in July 2017 and did not resolve until August 2017, so was 
over a month not a few days. 
No diagnostic tests were done in 2017, therefore it cannot be proven that the 
lameness is not related to the 2021 cruciate ligament injury. Lameness will often be 
the initial sign and symptom of an underlying cruciate problem. 
The dog was given Metacam which can mask any ongoing signs of lameness and 
we could not possibly know how long this was for if it was an early onset. 
There was no injury to cause a sudden onset of lameness and this is consistent with 
a degenerative disease dating from 2017. 
It is unreasonable to expect an insurer to cover a condition which clearly exhibits the 
same signs and symptoms of an illness that has recurred after the policy started. 
The application process is industry-standard, as is the pre-existing exclusion, and 
has been found to be adequate in previous Ombudsmen decisions. 
A clear misrepresentation (not a lie) occurred when Mr C took out the policy and he is 
bound by CIDRA. The Investigators assessment was in line with CIDRA and 
previous Ombudsmen decisions. The review which has taken place is one that is 
totally subjective and a difference of opinion between the adjudicator and an 
ombudsman. 
Mr C also misrepresented the breed of dog when applying for the policy and said the 
dog was a medium mongrel, when it is a mixed breed. This was identified at the 
claim stage. As a gesture of goodwill as there was no claim payment, this was 
overlooked. However, it clearly shows Mr C is capable of making a misrepresentation 
and has on two occasions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C & G says that Mr Cs dogs lameness started in July 2017 and didnt resolve until August 
2017, so lasted around a month and not just a few days. The vets notes record that in July 
2017, the dog had inflamed back feet, particularly the left hind foot. The vet recommended a 
special shampoo to use. Around a month later, on 12 August 2017, the dog was taken back 
to the vet and it was recorded that she had been lame on the left hind for two to three days. 
It was the same limb affected but the July 2017 consultation was for a specific issue with the 
feet. On 16 August 2017 the lameness and joint pain had apparently resolved. It seems to 
me therefore that the lameness is recorded as having lasted a few days and theres no 
evidence of any other joint issue until 2021. If the July 2017 foot problem was linked to the 
lameness in August 2017, it seems to me that this supports that this was unrelated to the 
cruciate ligament, as there is no evidence as far as I am aware that a cruciate ligament 
problem would cause swelling in the feet. 
As C & G has said, the dog was still on Metacam when she was seen by the vet in August 
2017. The vet suggested the issue might reappear after the metacam was stopped and there might still be the need to investigate further if that happened but there is no evidence it did. 
The fact remains that it seems the vet didnt think any X-rays or further treatment was 
required at that stage and there is no evidence that there was any further lameness until 
2021. 
I do not agree that the fact there were no x-rays taken in 2017 that would rule out a cruciate 
ligament issue, means it cannot be said that they are not linked. Mr C doesnt have to prove 
that the 2021 injury is not linked to the 2017 lameness, rather it is for C & G to establish (on 
the balance of probabilities) that the two are linked. 
C & G says that lameness is often the first sign of a degenerative cruciate ligament issue. 
That might be the case but I do not think it can be assumed that an incidence of lameness  
which the evidence shows resolved within a few days and it seems did not recur  is more 
likely than not linked to a cruciate ligament injury four years later. The vet has said the time 
between the two incidents is enough to rule out a link. I therefore remain of the opinion that 
C & G has not done established that this was a pre-existing condition. 
I also remain of the opinion that there was no misrepresentation by Mr C during the 
application for the policy. He was asked when applying for the policy whether he wanted 
cover for pre-existing conditions. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
above, I do not think it was clear that Mr C was aware that his dog had what C & G would 
have considered a condition. His vet has said there was no evidence (actual or perceived) 
that the stifle joints were damaged in 2017 and that Mr C was told it was likely to just be a 
temporary injury. I dont therefore think Mr C failed to take reasonable care when answering 
the question he was asked about his dog on the application form, so I dont think C & G can 
alter the contract it entered into on the basis its now found out about an episode of 
lameness in 2017. 
I have not criticised the application process itself, but have concluded it was not sufficient to 
have elicited disclosure to the 2017 lameness from Mr C. 
C & G says Mr C is capable of misrepresentation as he also misrepresented the breed of 
dog. This has not been raised before and C & G has not provided any evidence as to why 
this is relevant and whether it would have made any difference to the claim or the cover it 
provided. I do not think this adds anything to my determination of this complaint. 
C & G also says I have made a subjective assessment and my provisional decision is not in 
line with the Investigator or other Ombudsmens decisions on similar cases. Each complaint 
is considered on its own merits. If an Investigator is unable to resolve the complaint, both 
parties are entitled to an Ombudsmans decision, which is what happened here. It is only an 
Ombudsmans decision that is binding. Having received this complaint, I am required to 
determine it by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. I have determined that the complaint should be upheld for the 
reasons set out above. I recognise it can be disappointing for the losing party if the outcome 
has changed but this is our process. And my decision on this case is in line with our 
approach, and CIDRA, on these issues generally.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to 
do the following: 
1. pay Mr Cs claim, in line with the policy limit and any applicable excess. If Mr C 
shows that he has paid the vets bill it must add simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year to the claim payment from the date of claim until the date of settlement; 2. remove the exclusions it retrospectively applied to the policy; and 
3. pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
incorrect refusal of his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman