DRN-3475999
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) initially blocked his access to his 
account and then closed it.
Background
In March 2021, Mr G received a number of transfers, from the same party, into his Barclays 
account. These funds were immediately transferred on to a crypto-currency account in       
Mr Gs name. Barclays was subsequently notified that the payee of these funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. Barclays initially blocked Mr Gs account pending a review and as a 
result of its investigation, decided to close Mr Gs account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Mr G subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint about the closure of the account or it being blocked in the first place. As Mr G 
remained dissatisfied, Mr G referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. As the fraud marker was recorded as a 
direct consequence of the reason Mr Gs account was blocked in the first place our 
adjudicator also looked at Barclays actions in relation to this. She didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that will become clear further on, Ive started by looking at whether Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably when recording the fraud prevention marker against Mr G.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to 
decide whether I think Barclays had enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr 
Gs account and that his actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered 
everything, I find that Barclays did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr G disputes that the funds which entered into his account did so as a result of fraudulent 
activity. He says that the payee of the funds was an old school friend. The payee made 
these payments as they were returns on a crypto-currency investment, which hed set up in 
the first place. When our adjudicator asked if he had any evidence of this, Mr G said hed 
been contacted by his friend on a well-known messaging app and he hadnt saved the 
messages. He also confirmed that he didnt have anything else to evidence what hed said 
either.   
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. Mr G said that these payments, which totalled 
thousands of pounds, were his returns on a £50 crypto-currency investment. The first thing 
to say is having looked through Mr Gs statements I havent seen anything to evidence him 
having transferred £50 to the person who transferred the funds to him at any stage. Mr G 
has since said that this transfer was made through his crypto-currency account which he no 
longer has access to. But as I understand it any transfers made trough such means would 
be in crypto-currency rather than sterling. 
Secondly, notwithstanding some of the returns realised through crypto-currency, I have to 
question how Mr G could reasonably have believed that an investment of £50 could have 
realised returns of tens of thousands in such a short period of time. Finally, Mr G also 
transferred all of the funds to a crypto-currency account. I dont understand how and why 
crypto-currency returns would be converted into sterling only to be reconverted in to crypto-
currency. This is especially as Mr G now says his initial investment was made through a 
crypto-currency transfer and therefore the sender of the funds could easily have just 
transferred the funds that way. 
Finally, Im also concerned that Mr G has no other evidence to document him being involved 
of an investment. Given his version of events suggests he was expecting returns of tens of 
thousands of pounds, I would have expected him to have at least retained some record of 
what was discussed  especially as Barclays did make it clear that these funds were the 
reason his account was blocked in the first place. 
So Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of 
what Mr G has said. And when all of these unanswered questions are weighed against the 
fact that Barclays had also received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for 
sending the payments, stating that its customer had been a victim of fraud, I think that 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that these funds were fraudulent. And, in these 
circumstances, it was also entitled to return what it could recover to the sending bank, given 
Mr G had confirmed that these funds were from the funds which had been credited to him 
and led to the investigation in the first place.   Furthermore, as Mr G himself transferred the funds onto his crypto-currency account, Im 
satisfied that there is no dispute that he was complicit in the activity which took place on his 
account. Taking this all into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr G was complicit 
in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr G was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to return the funds Mr G wants access 
to, to the sender, and record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Gs account. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account 
state Barclays could close an account in certain circumstances. These included where it had 
reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or 
someone else. Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Mr Gs account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it 
didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also 
satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to 
close Mr Gs account. 
 
Finally, I note that Barclays did pay Mr G £350 in compensation for the delays in its 
investigation of the funds in his account. Given Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to 
block and then return the funds in question, I dont think that any further award would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.  
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr G and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G  especially as I know Mr G is 
concerned about his ability to open another account. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Mr G might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies 
for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman