DRN-3521382
The complaint
Mr D complains about Avivas handling of a claim made under his property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D owns a flat which is covered by a property insurance policy underwritten by Aviva and 
taken out by the management company and freeholder for the development in which the flat 
sits.
He made a claim in late July 2021 after a water pipe above his flat leaked causing extensive 
damage within Mr Ds property.
Aviva sent a surveyor to assess the damage in mid-August 2021. And having accepted the 
claim, they sent contractors to carry out the drying of the property and to scope the required 
repair works.
The background to the events which followed is well known to both parties and so Im going 
to summarise it very briefly here.
In short, Mr D wasnt happy that Aviva werent going to replace all of his fitted kitchen, 
including those parts which werent damaged by the escape of water, but which matched the 
parts that were damaged.
He wasnt happy that Aviva werent going to replace the carpets which had been damaged. 
Or the appliances in his kitchen  which he says were damaged and arent working properly 
now.
He was also unhappy with the delays in the settlement of the claim  which is still on-going. 
And with the way Aviva handled the alternative accommodation associated with the claim. 
They paid for this for a while, but then ceased to do so.
Mr D has made a number of complaints to Aviva about their handling of the claim. The first 
of these was lodged with Aviva in early September 2021, around six weeks after the claim 
was first made.
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response and brought his complaints to us. Our investigator 
looked into it.
She thought Aviva should pay 50% of the costs for the undamaged matching parts of the 
kitchen, which Aviva had already offered to do in response to Mr Ds complaints.
She thought they should pay for replacement of the carpets. And they should seek to appoint 
independent specialists to assess the state of Mr Ds kitchen appliances  in line with Mr Ds 
wishes.
She said that if those experts concluded that the appliances had been put out of action by 
the escape of water in July 2021, Aviva should pay Mr D a disturbance allowance  at the 
rate of £10 per day  for the time hed lived at the flat after the alternative accommodation 
payments had stopped.
And she said Aviva should pay Mr D £500 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by the delays in the settlement of the claim.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Mr D agreed with the majority of our investigators view, but he also feels Aviva should 
reinstate the arrangement for alternative accommodation until such time as the claim is 
settled.
Because I disagreed with some aspects of the view given by our investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision on this case. That allowed both Mr D and Aviva an opportunity to 
comment on my thinking and/or provide further evidence or information before I make my 
final decision, which is this services last word on this complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were broadly five issues remaining at the time Mr D brought his complaint to 
us. These were centred around: the undamaged matching parts of the kitchen; the 
kitchen appliances; the carpets; the alternative accommodation; and the delay in the 
claim being settled, which is on-going. Ill deal with these below, in that order.
The undamaged matching parts of the kitchen
Our investigators view, in line with our usual approach, was that Aviva should 
replace or pay for the damaged kitchen units. And they should cover 50% of the cost 
of replacing the undamaged units which matched the ones which are being replaced.
I believe that is now agreed by both Aviva and Mr D, so I neednt go into any great 
detail on this point. I understand Mr D wanted Aviva to cash settle this and the other 
parts of the claim, but Im not going to require them to do that. The policy terms give 
Aviva that option and no doubt theyll consider it in due course.
The kitchen appliances
An electrician carried out an inspection and concluded that there was no major 
damage to the electrics at the flat. Mr D maintains that his kitchen appliances arent 
working.
Aviva asked Mr D to allow them access to the flat to carry out an inspection of the 
appliances. Mr D didnt agree to this. We wants independent experts in the particular 
brands and/or appliances to carry out the inspection.
Our investigator thought Aviva should comply with Mr Ds wishes. Im minded not to 
agree entirely with that view.
In all the circumstances, Aviva are entitled to assess the damage and losses at the 
flat that Mr D is claiming for before they agree to pay for repair or replacement. They should be allowed to find out whether the appliances are in fact damaged. And 
whether, if so, that damage was caused by the escape of water in late July 2021.
If Mr D doesnt allow that inspection to take place, its not unreasonable for Aviva to 
refuse that part of the claim. If Mr D isnt happy with the conclusions Avivas 
inspectors come to, hed be perfectly entitled to commission his own expert 
inspection and report. Im sure Aviva would then take that into account when 
assessing Mr Ds claim.
The carpets
Our investigator thought Aviva should replace or pay for replacement of Mr Ds 
carpets which were damaged by the escape of water.
The policy under which Mr D is making the claim provides buildings insurance cover. 
It does not cover contents. There is no real dispute about this. Mr D simply says that 
because the carpets were fixed in place they should be considered part of the 
building, not contents of the building.
Our line on this issue is made clear on our website, which offers advice for both 
financial businesses and their customers. In short, we do not normally regard carpets 
- or indeed other flooring - as part of the structure of a building.
Carpets and flooring are considered contents unless they are fixed in such a way as 
to make it impossible or very difficult to remove them without causing damage to the 
building itself. That would be exceptional with any type of floor covering  but is 
clearly more likely to apply with wooden, laminate, or other hard floorings rather than 
with carpets.
Unsurprisingly perhaps, Mr Ds carpets werent fixed in a way that would make it 
impossible or difficult to remove them. It appears they were fixed as carpets are 
usually fixed  using treads and grippers.
That being the case, Im minded to conclude that the carpets were contents and are 
not covered by Mr Ds policy.
The alternative accommodation payments
Aviva paid for alternative accommodation for Mr D at the outset of his claim. It 
subsequently came to light that Mr D had had a lodger in the flat at the time of the 
escape of water and the lodger was using the alternative accommodation. Its not 
clear whether this was with Mr D or alone.
It's not for me to comment on whether Mr D was entitled to have a lodger at the flat 
under the terms of his leasehold. Thats between him and the management company 
/ freeholder.
However, I can say that Mr D wasnt covered under the policy to have alternative 
accommodation provided for anyone to whom he may have sublet part of the flat.
Mr D hasnt denied that the alternative accommodation was being used by his lodger. 
And it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to stop those payments when that become 
apparent.Since then, Mr D says hes been living in the flat, but he describes it as 
uninhabitable. He says theres rubble and mess caused by the escape of water. And 
as Ive already mentioned he says his kitchen appliances arent working.
Where customers stay in a dwelling that might otherwise be described as 
uninhabitable  lacking in basic facilities for washing or cooking, for example  after a 
claim has been accepted, wed expect insurers to pay a disturbance allowance to 
cover the additional costs incurred by the customer. These might, for example, be 
laundry costs or additional food costs.
Where those costs arent specifically evidenced in detail, its our assumption that 
around £10 per day would constitute a reasonable disturbance allowance, in normal 
circumstances.
Ive said above that I think Mr D should allow Aviva to carry out an inspection, to 
determine whether his kitchen appliances were in fact damaged - to the point where 
they no longer functioned - by the escape of water event in July 2021.
If they find that the appliances were put out of action by that event, it would be fair 
and reasonable to conclude that Mr D has been living in a home that would normally 
be considered uninhabitable since the alterative accommodation payments ceased.
And in that case, Aviva should pay Mr D £10 per day as a disturbance allowance  
from the date when the alternative accommodation ended to the date when Aviva 
make the flat inhabitable again or pay out a cash settlement to allow Mr D to do so.
If on the other hand, the appliances are found to be functioning or to have been 
damaged by something other than the escape of water, Aviva would not be obliged to 
pay any disturbance allowance to Mr D.
The delays
Avivas initial response to Mr Ds claim was reasonably speedy. A surveyor visited 
the property within a few weeks of the claim. And contractors were tasked to dry out 
the flat and scope the works required to repair the damage within a week or so after 
that.
The claim then became rather snagged on the points of contention about the kitchen 
units, the kitchen appliances and the carpets. Mr D also made complaints around this 
time (early September 2021) about the alternative accommodation as well as the 
claim handling more generally.
I can see from the records we have on file that Aviva were chasing Mr D about their 
wish to arrange a date for inspection of the kitchen appliances. They were 
maintaining their line on the carpets  and on the non-damaged matching kitchen 
units. And they were right  as Ive set out above  on both of those points.
Given that Mr D wouldnt allow a further inspection, to assess the kitchen appliances 
 and that he didnt accept Avivas position on the carpets or the undamaged kitchen 
units  its difficult for me to conclude that Aviva were entirely responsible for the 
delays in progressing the claim after September 2021.
That said, there were times in the handling of the claim when Aviva might have been 
clearer in their communication with Mr D about what needed to happen next to 
progress the claim.They might also have more clearly set out what they were willing to cover and how 
they might begin the work on those aspects of the claim without necessarily needing 
to resolve any issues about the carpets and/or the kitchen appliances beforehand.
In short, it seems to me that Aviva werent quite as proactive as they might have 
been in attempting to improve Mr Ds position (by carrying out basic repair works at 
the flat  or at least offering to do so) and/or in setting out for Mr D the necessary 
next steps to get the claim moving.
I think its fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to compensate Mr D for their failings in 
this respect by paying him £100. I understand Mr D might be disappointed that this is 
some way short of the £500 suggested by our investigator. But for the reasons set 
out above, Im not convinced that Aviva are solely  or even primarily  responsible 
for the delays in progressing Mr Ds claim.
And on that basis, I said I was minded to require Aviva to: 
carry out or pay for repairs to or replacement of the damaged parts of Mr Ds 
kitchen;
cover 50% of the costs of repairing or replacing the undamaged matching parts of 
Mr Ds kitchen;
carry out an inspection of Mr Ds kitchen appliances, as soon as Mr D is willing to 
make arrangements to allow them to do so;
pay Mr D a disturbance allowance of £10 per day from the date they ceased to 
cover alternative accommodation costs until the date Mr Ds flat is again 
inhabitable or the claim is cash settled, if and only if the inspection confirms that 
Mr Ds kitchen appliances were damaged and non-functioning as a result of the 
escape of water in July 2021;
pay Mr D £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset caused by the delays in 
progressing the claim which were Aviva Insurance Limiteds fault.
The responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to my provisional decision to say theyd already offered Mr D a 50% 
contribution to the costs of repairing his kitchen. And theyd already paid him £100 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
They also said Mr D was still not allowing them access to inspect the flat, but they were 
happy to inspect his kitchen appliances at Mr Ds convenience and would be happy to 
consider paying the suggested disturbance allowance if the flat were deemed uninhabitable.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision at some length. I hope he wont be disappointed 
that Im not going to set out his comments in full here. I will try to summarise his position 
without, I hope, missing out anything significant.
Mr D says it should be up to him who he shared the alternative accommodation with, and he 
shouldnt have to explain his relationship with the individual concerned.
He says he had to leave the alternative accommodation for a period of time, because he had 
a medical operation and was vulnerable if infected with COVID. But he moved back in later.He says the property was uninhabitable  as one might expect given the extent of the water 
damage. And so, Aviva should have provided alternative accommodation throughout.
He says it was only after some persuasion on his part that Aviva accepted his integrated 
kitchen appliances were covered under his policy.
He says Aviva unfairly denied him access to the policy documents and terms and conditions.
Mr D is also frustrated that the management company for the development were also 
obstructive about access to the policy  and didnt support his claim.
He says some of the carpets in the property were glued down, not attached by treads and 
grippers. And so, those carpets should be covered by the policy, which covers buildings but 
not contents.
He says Aviva involved lots of different companies in the claim  loss adjusters, a drying 
company and contractors  but failed to coordinate their efforts, leading to confusion and 
delay. He says the fact theyve already paid him £100 in compensation shows Aviva admit 
they failed him.
He says he was told Aviva would cash settle for all of the repairs to the kitchen.
And he says he wasnt at all responsible for any of the delays in his claim being progressed 
or indeed for the stalemate he and Aviva have arrived at.
Mr D was also keen to stress how difficult its been for him to live in the flat, without basic 
facilities  and to cope with the stress, worry and inconvenience caused by what he sees as 
Avivas failure to settle his claim in good time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence and information we have on our case file. And Ive carefully 
considered the further comments and information provided by both Aviva and Mr D in 
response to my provisional decision.
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I havent seen anything to change my mind about the 
outcome of this case. I am very sorry to hear about how difficult things have been for Mr D. 
And he has my sympathy that his flat was damaged in this way through no fault of his own. 
But Im satisfied that the outcome set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
Ill address the comments made by both parties and explain why I havent changed my view 
about this case.
Aviva say theyve already offered Mr D 50% of the repair costs for his kitchen and £100 in 
compensation. I was aware of that, although Im grateful for the confirmation.
To be clear, in settling Mr Ds claim  which they accepted  Aviva will need to replace or 
repair all the damaged parts of Mr Ds kitchen. And theyll carry 100% of the cost of that.
They will also need to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the kitchen 
which are part of a matching set. Thats in line with our usual approach where repairs or 
replacements cant be made to match the undamaged parts of a matching set. And its what Aviva previously agreed to.
Im sure thats what Aviva meant in their response to my provisional decision, but it wasnt 
quite what they said. They said theyd offered Mr D 50% of the cost of repairing or replacing 
his kitchen (full stop).
I was also aware theyd paid Mr D £100 in compensation. As their final response to Mr D 
makes clear, this was for the confusion around the alternative accommodation 
arrangements. 
The £100 compensation I proposed as part of my provisional decision was (see above) for 
the delays in Avivas handling of the claim and their lack of proactivity in progressing the 
claim when they came to an impasse. 
To be clear, thats a further £100 on top of the £100 theyve already paid to Mr D. Its for a 
completely different error or omission on Avivas part.
Ill respond to Mr Ds points in roughly the order he made them in his response to my 
provisional decision.
Bluntly, its not up to Mr D who lived in the alternative accommodation provided by Aviva. 
That provision was for him, as the beneficiary of the policy. If he was living elsewhere whilst 
Aviva were paying for a hotel for him to live in, its not unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to 
cease making the payments. And the reason he had to live elsewhere  whether a matter of 
medical necessity or not  is neither here nor there. 
Mr D says his property was uninhabitable. That would be the case if he didnt have access to 
the usual essential facilities, including for cooking and washing. Whether the flat was in fact 
uninhabitable is yet to be determined  and thats why Aviva legitimately need access to 
Mr Ds flat to carry out an inspection.
To be clear, for Mr D particularly, a disturbance allowance is reasonably payable if the flat 
was in fact uninhabitable by the usual standards (whether or not he actually managed to live 
there  which he did). The allowance essentially recognises that if a customer doesnt have 
access to washing or cooking facilities, for example, they will spend more money on food, 
and/or on launderette costs.
As I said in my provisional decision, if the flat was uninhabitable, Aviva will have to pay a 
disturbance allowance of £10 per day to Mr D  and that will run from the date they ceased 
alternative accommodation payments to the date they settle his claim (in one way or 
another).
I understand Mr D thinks he had to put in some effort to persuade Avivas agents that his 
integrated appliances were covered under the policy. However, they did accept that, and 
theyve been wiling to proceed on that basis as soon as they can get access to inspect the 
appliances within the flat.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration about the failure to provide of the policy documents and 
terms and conditions in a timely manner. 
Given the nature of the policy, it wasnt entirely unreasonable for Aviva to refer Mr D to the 
management company for the development  in whose name the policy was taken out. 
However, Aviva could have been more helpful to Mr D in explaining the position - and once it 
became clear the management company werent providing the documents.This is one of the things I took into account when I said Aviva could have been more 
proactive in the handling of Mr Ds claim  for which I suggested the additional compensation 
payment. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr D also made it clear he was very unhappy 
with the actions of the management company more broadly. I can see why he may have 
been frustrated, but its not for me to comment on that in this decision. The management 
company werent providing a financial service to Mr D and so their actions (or inaction) arent 
something we can look into.
Mr D says lots of different entities were involved in responding to his claim  and their efforts 
werent properly coordinated by Aviva. Its not unusual for a number of different companies 
to be involved in handling a claim from start to finish. Or for underwriters  such as Aviva  
to ask their loss adjusters to coordinate activity.
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Aviva might have been more proactive in 
seeking to progress the claim. Hence the further compensation Im going to require them to 
pay to Mr D.
Mr D says Aviva initially told him theyd cash settle the claim for the whole of his kitchen. And 
now theyre offering only 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts. 
Im sure there was room for some confusion in the early discussions about the claim. Where 
Avivas agents said theyd pay for all of the repairs, they may not have been intending to 
suggest theyd replace elements of the kitchen that werent affected by the escape of water 
at all (and didnt need repairing).
Again, Aviva may be responsible for some of that confusion  hence the compensation Im 
going to require them to pay to Mr D now. But Im satisfied theyve been reasonably clear, 
reasonably soon, about their stance towards the undamaged parts of the kitchen. And Im 
satisfied what theyre now offering is in line with what wed expect as a fair and reasonable 
contribution to those costs.
Mr D says hes in no way responsible for the fact that the claim has not progressed in a 
timely manner. Im sorry, but that doesnt fit with the evidence and information we have. 
Im not relying on what Aviva have told us about this. Mr D himself has clearly said that he 
doesnt want Aviva to inspect the property in the way theyve suggested. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision, what Aviva are suggesting to progress the claim (the proposed 
inspection) is not unreasonable.
I can appreciate that it has been difficult for Mr D to live in the flat in its current state. As I 
say, he has my sympathy  its extremely unfortunate that his flat was damaged in this way. 
But I have to bear in mind that Aviva didnt cause the escape of water and theyre not 
responsible for the inevitable upset this has caused. I can only hold them responsible for 
their own actions in handling Mr Ds claim.
The one remaining issue raised by Mr D in response to my provisional decision is whether 
the carpets in his flat should or should not be covered by his policy. 
Our view, as I explained in my provisional decision, is that carpets are usually transportable 
and so should usually be regarded as contents rather than part of the building. And Mr Ds 
policy covers the building but not the contents.In Mr Ds original complaint to us, he told us that he found it odd that carpets were regarded 
as contents when they were, in his own words secured to the ground with gripper rods and 
sit securely fitted under skirting boards. 
Mr D will no doubt be able to see why weve assumed his carpets were fitted using grippers, 
in the usual way. Hes since told us that some of the carpets in his flat were in fact glued to 
the floor, rather than being fitted with grippers.
If Mr Ds carpets were glued to the floor, in a way which would have made it impossible or 
difficult to remove them without any damage, I think Aviva should re-consider Mr Ds claim 
relating to those carpets alone.
However, given what Mr D said to us in his original complaint  which may mirror what hed 
said to Aviva before that point  I cant conclude that Aviva have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when they said the carpets wouldnt be covered as things stand.
If Mr D can now provide Aviva with evidence that some of his carpets were glued down  in 
such a way as to make them non-transportable  Im sure they will re-consider that aspect of 
his claim.
Putting things right
As I say, my position on the outcome of this case hasnt changed in response to the further 
comments provided by Aviva and Mr D. What Im going to require Aviva to do to put things 
right was set out in my provisional decision  and it appears again below.
Just for the sake of absolute clarity, Ill reiterate what I said in my provisional decision. I am 
aware Mr D is very keen to get a global cash settlement for his claim. Given the terms of the 
policy, it would be unreasonable for me to require Aviva to cash settle the claim given that 
they are entitled to decide how to meet the claim. 
Its open to Mr D to suggest a cash settlement  and Im sure Aviva would consider that 
option - but Im not going to require Aviva to cash settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
carry out or pay for repairs to or replacement of the damaged parts of Mr Ds 
kitchen;
cover 50% of the costs of repairing or replacing the undamaged matching parts of 
Mr Ds kitchen;
carry out an inspection of Mr Ds kitchen appliances, as soon as Mr D is willing to 
make arrangements to allow them to do so;
pay Mr D a disturbance allowance of £10 per day from the date they ceased to 
cover alternative accommodation costs until the date Mr Ds flat is again 
inhabitable or the claim is cash settled, if and only if the inspection confirms that 
Mr Ds kitchen appliances were damaged and non-functioning as a result of the 
escape of water in July 2021;pay Mr D £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset caused by the delays in 
progressing the claim which were Aviva Insurance Limiteds fault.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman