DRN-3517179
The complaint
Mr P complains Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL)) made errors in selling shares he held in an exchange traded fund that 
resulted in him receiving below market value for his investment. 
What happened
Mr P holds a HL dealing account and uses its service on an execution only basis. In March 
2021, Mr P sold shares he held in his account. His instruction was actioned as part of a stop 
loss order meaning HL were instructed to sell if the share price fell below the limit set by Mr 
P. 
HL sold the stock as the price spread had reached the stop loss value. The transaction was 
executed, and Mr P received the funds into his account. When Mr P saw the proceeds hed 
received, he contacted HL as believed there had been an error in the way the stop loss was 
executed. Based on his understanding of the price, he didnt believe the stop loss had been 
hit  and his investment had been sold below value. 
HL responded but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that having reviewed the 
transaction it didnt find that any errors had been made and it completed as expected. It 
explained that some stocks show abnormally wide spreads, which can only last a few 
seconds but at that point any effected orders could be executed. It said this risk is known as 
gapping and this is what happen with Mr Ps order. 
As Mr P wasnt happy with the response he received, he referred a complaint to our service 
for an independent review. One of our investigators considered the complaint. He didnt 
uphold it. In summary he said:
- Mr P activated the stop loss limit function on his shares  and he was satisfied from 
the information provided that the price had dropped below the limit Mr P set. He said 
this was an automated process and hadnt found that HL had done anything wrong. 
- The value of the shares, at the time they were sold, fluctuated considerably, but this 
was down to the market and not down to anything HL had done  and he was 
satisfied this was covered in the HLs terms and conditions.
- HLs terms and conditions also cover the risks of gapping when selling shares due 
to the stop loss limit  and this meant that if gapping occurs HL will sell at the lower 
price, even if fluctuation occurs with the share value.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his complaint. He didnt think the sale amount should have gone through at such 
a low price through the stock market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps disappointment at the level his stop loss was executed at. But in order to 
uphold his complaint, I must be persuaded that an error by HL caused his stock to be sold 
incorrectly. So, Ive considered the circumstances of this trade to decide whether HL has 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner  and this includes the extent of its responsibility 
when executing a client order.
Mr P gave a specific instruction - a stop loss on this particular stock. This meant HL was 
required to execute his trade in line with its terms and best execution policy and the relevant 
rules in Conduct of Business Rules (COBS  and specifically, COBS 11). This required HL to 
execute Mr Ps instruction and obtain for him the best available price at that time, taking into 
account execution factors. A stop-loss order converts into a market order once the stop 
price is triggered  meaning it will execute the contract at the market price, not the stop-loss 
price. This means the more volatile a security is, the increased risk of the execution price 
being below the stop-loss price.
HL has provided evidence of the pricing data it obtained from the pricing providers it used 
when executing this trade for Mr P. Im persuaded that this evidence shows that Mr Ps stop 
loss was triggered, and executed, at the best available market price. I acknowledge that very 
shortly after the price increased again to a level above his stop loss. But this doesnt mean 
that HL has done some wrong when fulfilling the instruction. It is unfortunate this happened - 
but this is the risk this type of trading, even for a very short amount of time the price fell 
below the stop-loss. Its particularly relevant risk when placing automatic orders, such as 
stop losses, because it removes the traders ability to assess the price and decide whether 
to sell or hang on to the investment with the expectation that the price will recover. When HL 
received a price, which was below the level of the stop loss Mr P had set, it had an obligation 
to execute it as soon as possible. Having done this, HL had discharged its obligations 
towards Mr P, it had no requirement to do anything else.
I acknowledge that the volatility of the share price and the wide bid/offer spread meant that 
Mr P received significantly less that he was expecting when he made his instruction. But the 
nature of this type of instrument means it is susceptible to volatile pricing  compared to say 
trading FTSE100 shares. In providing a stop loss instruction, Mr P exposed himself to this 
risk. As Ive already explained, HL executed Mr Ps trade in line with its terms and its 
obligation to provide him with best execution. The fact that the price improved (and the 
spread shortened) shortly afterwards wasnt something HL could anticipate or do anything 
about. 
I understand why Mr P thinks that the losses he claims cant be put down to an automated 
process and there must have been errors that led to the sale of his shares. But I dont think 
HL ought to have investigated or looked into the price volatility, as it was entitled to rely on 
the pricing providers it used to inform it of trading prices. In terms of this specific order, and 
the price it was executed at, Im satisfied HL have treated Mr P fairly and did not cause him 
the loss he is claiming.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman