DRN-1099572
Complaint
Mr W complains that Foundation for Credit Counselling, trading as Stepchange, provided 
him with poor service in relation to his payment plan. And that they pressured him into 
paying more to his creditors than he could afford.
Background
Mr W received an email from Stepchange about reviewing his plan with them, so he called 
up in July 2019. After getting information from Mr W about his incomings and outgoings, 
Stepchange identified he had £129 surplus available each month. Mr W says he felt 
pressured into paying that amount  and he was unhappy with how he was spoken to. So, 
he complained to Stepchange on the phone shortly after this first call.
In this second phone call Stepchange reassured Mr W he didnt need to pay more than he 
could afford. Stepchange also wrote out to Mr W and said they think the adviser could have 
shown more empathy. And they wanted to make it clear Mr W didnt need to pay £129 per 
month to his creditors but accept the adviser could have been clearer about this. They also 
said sorry their adviser didnt meet the level of service they expect.
Mr W remained unhappy with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our investigators 
did so and felt Stepchange had done enough to put things right. He said Stepchange had 
reassured Mr W he didnt need to pay more than he felt he could afford  and they said sorry 
for what happened.
Mr W didnt accept this though, and said hes not satisfied with what Stepchange have said. 
He added the adviser was not professional enough with him and thinks Stepchange havent 
taken this seriously. He also said he doesnt think the adviser should be working at 
Stepchange anymore. Our investigator considered these points further, but Mr W remained 
unhappy, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to consider in this case is whether Stepchange did enough to put things right, 
after Mr W told them about the issues he experienced. Having considered everything, I think 
Stepchange have done enough. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call which Mr W has complained about. I agree that the adviser could 
have explained things more clearly and shown more empathy. Mr W did let the adviser know 
about health concerns a member of his family had.
But when Mr W called to complain shortly after the original phone call, he spoke to an 
adviser who made it clear he didnt need to pay more than he could afford. This adviser also 
said sorry for what happened and arranged for Mr W to speak to someone else, to get the review for his plan resolved. Mr W hasnt mentioned this any further, so it seems likely Mr W 
was happy with how this call went.
Stepchange then followed this up in writing and explained Mr W didnt need to pay more 
than he could afford, the adviser didnt show enough empathy, and said sorry for what 
happened.
I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly about how he was treated on the phone. But 
overall, I think Stepchanges actions afterwards show they took his concerns seriously. And I 
think theyve treated Mr W fairly by saying sorry and reassuring him he didnt need to pay 
more than he could afford, so I wont be awarding him any compensation.
Mr W has also said he doesnt think the adviser should be working at Stepchange any 
further  as our investigator explained to Mr W, its not our role to consider any training or 
disciplinary issues. 
My decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman