DRN-3317448
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods refused to 
change his payment date.
What happened
In September 2012 Mr S opened a Littlewoods account. Sometime later he experienced 
financial difficulties. He contacted Littlewoods and made an arrangement to pay the 
outstanding balance on the account.
Mr S is unhappy that Littlewoods expect him to make a payment every 28 days. He thinks 
there should be more flexibility so that he can pay on a set date each month.
Mr S is also unhappy about the customer service he received when he called Littlewoods in 
August 2021 to discuss his payment arrangement.
When Littlewoods responded to Mr Ss complaint, it said it was unable to change the 28 day 
cycle of its statements and the payment date which was generated.
Mr S was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions of Mr Ss 
Littlewoods account stated that he was required to make at least the minimum payment 
every 28 days. The investigator said that this service wasnt able to ask a business to 
change its policies.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been caused anxiety and health issues as a result of 
Littlewoods actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that Littlewoods made things difficult for him because they wouldnt allow him 
to make his payment on a set date each month.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. These say that payments will be 
collected every 28 days rather than non a set date each month. Mr S agreed to these terms 
and conditions when he opened the account. So Im unable to say that Littlewoods had 
made an error by asking Mr S to make his payment every 28 days. 
I understand that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties at the time he asked to change 
the payment date, so Ive considered whether Littlewoods responded positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that Littlewoods set up a payment arrangement for Mr S. it also 
agreed to reset the payment arrangement  so that Mr S could make his next payment at a  
time which suited him. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Littlewoods treated Mr S 
fairly.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about the customer service he received when he 
called Littlewoods. Ive listened to the call dated August 2021. During the call, Mr S asked if 
he could reset the payment arrangement and said he wanted to change the payment date to 
a date close to when he got paid. The adviser explained that it wasnt possible to change the 
payment date but said she could reset the arrangement on one occasion only, so that Mr S 
could make his next payment on the date he wanted.
I can see that the payment arrangement was reset for Mr S. Based on what Ive heard in the 
call, Im satisfied that Mr S was treated courteously and fairly. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the customer service was poor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman