DRN-3974335
The complaint
Mrs F complains that NewDay Ltd shouldn't have accepted her credit card applications and 
increased the credit limit on her credit card accounts as the lending was both unaffordable 
and irresponsible.
What happened
Mrs F is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all the submissions from Mrs Fs representative as being made by Mrs F.  
Mrs F applied and was accepted for an Aqua credit card with NewDay in January 2013. Over 
the course of the next three years she was offered several credit limit increases. In January 
2017 Mrs F applied for and was accepted for a NewDay Marbles credit card account.
NewDay's lending:
Date Limit
Aqua account opening January 2013 £250
1st increase April 2013 £600
2nd increase October 2013 £1,000
3rd increase March 2014 £1,400
4th increase May 2015 £2,250
5th increase October 2015 £2,900
6th increase April 2016 £3,800
Marbles account opening January 2017 £600
In July 2021 Mrs F complained to NewDay. She said she was provided with credit she could 
not afford nor was it sustainable given her financial circumstances. In its final response 
NewDay said that as the Aqua account and first four credit limit increases were more than 
six years ago, under the FCA's guidelines it would not reasonably be expected to consider 
these due to the time that has elapsed. 
In respect of the fifth and sixth increase on the Aqua account NewDay said it was satisfied 
each credit limit increase from October 2015 was provided correctly and in line with its 
lending policy. It said adequate checks had been completed to ensure these credit limit 
increases were affordable. It went on to say that it was satisfied that the new Marbles 
account was provided in line with its responsible lending policy and that Mrs F met its 
acceptance criteria.
Mrs F didn't agree and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that 
NewDay shouldn't have approved the credit limit increases in October 2015 and April 2016. 
Nor should it have approved the new Marbles credit card account. She recommended 
NewDay should take some action to remedy the situation. 
NewDay did not agree with the investigator's view and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. It said that the approach it takes to reviewing accounts for credit limit increases 
includes an assessment of affordability. It said this assessment includes data on income and 
expenditure and other information held by credit reference agencies. NewDay said Mrs F 
was managing her account appropriately and in line with the terms and conditions of her 
credit agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2023. I said: 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance, and good industry 
practice - on our website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered 
Mrs Fs complaint.
NewDay has said that Aqua account opening and first four credit increases occurred 
more than six years ago and are therefore outside of the remit of our organisation. 
Prior to her view our investigator reached out to Mrs F through her representative for 
more information to enable her to determine if we had the power to investigate the 
initial amount provided and the first four credit limit increases. I have also reached 
out to Mrs Fs representative. I asked for confirmation that Mrs F agreed for me to 
look at only the lending decisions from October 2015 onwards. Or alternatively I 
asked Mrs F to provide information relating to when she first became reasonably 
aware that she could bring a complaint or if there were any exceptional 
circumstances which may have occurred which may have prevented her from 
bringing her complaint to this service sooner. No further information was provided 
and NewDay hasn't given us permission to look at these aspects of the complaint. 
So, I shall only be looking at the merits of the two last increases on Mrs Fs Aqua 
credit account and the Marbles account opening.
Aqua lending increases
Date Limit
5th increase October 2015 £2,900
6th increase April 2016 £3,800
In October 2015 Aqua proactively raised Mrs F's credit limit from £2,250 to £2,900. 
Although I'm not looking at the account opening, or the earlier credit limit increases 
it's relevant that in January 2013 Mrs F's account was opened with a credit limit of 
£250 and by May 2015 the limit was £2,250. This is a ninefold increase.
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent 
 so the higher the amount, the greater the checks likely should be, and the lower the 
amount, then fewer checks can possibly be made. As Mrs F's lending increased so I 
would expect NewDays affordability checks to be deeper.
From the affordability data used by NewDay to assess Mrs F's credit limit increase 
proposals between June 2013 and October 2015 I can see Mrs F exceeded her 
credit limit eight times.
NewDay said the over limit fees are incurred when a customer exceeds their credit 
limit due to spending or incurred fees/interest. It said its policy excludes customers 
for increase offers where an over limit fee has been incurred for three consecutive 
months. The same stance applies in terms of late fees. It said consecutive fees did 
not occur on Mrs F's account and so the increases went ahead in line with its policy. 
NewDay went on to say it would be unreasonable to assume that the customer is 
experiencing financial difficulties purely due to over limit fees. It said it also considers other factors when assessing the credit limit, for example regular payments were 
received albeit occasionally late. It said there was nothing concerning to suggest that 
the increases offered were unaffordable at that time. It said there was only one 
instance where Mrs F incurred a late payment charge in October 2015.
I accept that a customer going over their credit limit occasionally is not in and of itself 
evidence that the lending is necessarily unaffordable. But I believe repeated 
occasions going over the limit, when the limit is increasing significantly, whether 
consecutive or not, is a signal that more detailed checks may be required to justify 
further lending. Mrs F had four credit limit increases prior to October 2015 and after 
each she exceeded the limit. Mrs F exceeded her limit the month following her 
increase in May 2015. She consistently brought her balance to the limit, utilising over 
90% of the limits. Her debt was increasing and her repayments towards her credit 
cards didnt appear to be reducing her balances in any significant way. Although Mrs 
F only incurred one late payment charge it did occur in the very month a £750 
increase in credit was offered.
Looking at Mrs Fs credit file I can see she had three other credit card accounts. The 
last of these opened the month before the Aqua October credit limit increase.
Im persuaded that further checks prior to the increase in October 2015, especially an 
updated and verified income and expenditure assessment were needed. I say this 
because Mrs Fs credit situation had changed significantly since the account opening.
It follows then that the credit increase by a further £900 to £3,800 also warranted 
further affordability checks. This credit limit occurred only six months after the 
previous increase and Mrs F had spent up to and over the credit limit of £2,900 within 
four months. I can see from the external credit reference agency data provided by 
NewDay as evidence of its risk and affordability check that in March 2016 Mrs Fs 
reported level of debt increased sharply from zero to £15,000 for one credit reference 
agency. NewDay told this service it had only been using one credit agency previous 
to this and from March 2016 it was using a second agency. So, Im satisfied NewDay 
was aware that Mrs Fs overall indebtedness was much higher than previously 
reported.
What would proportionate checks have shown?
Prior to the October 2015 credit increase onwards I think it would have been 
proportionate for NewDay to have verified Mrs Fs income and asked about 
expenditure before lending. Mrs F has said her credit history showed that she was 
missing payments and had defaulted on several accounts. She said her financial 
struggles started in 2012. She said the missed payments painted a picture of 
someone whose finances were getting significantly worse during the duration of the 
credit and that it was unfair for her to be offered a financial product for which 
payments are unsustainable, thereby putting her in a position of stress and further 
financial difficulty.
We have not received any evidence e.g. bank statements showing income and 
expenditure, about Mrs Fs financial circumstances prior to the lending decisions in 
October 2015 and April 2016. Im not disputing Mrs F when she says she was in 
financial difficulty. But without evidence of this Im unable to understand what, if 
anything, NewDay might have found out if it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks nor whether it made a fair lending decision. As Im not persuaded that 
NewDay acted unfairly, subject to any further information I might receive from Mrs F 
or NewDay I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right.Marbles account opening
Date Limit
Marbles account opening January 2017 £600
Again, NewDays own affordability data shows that at the point of this new card 
application Mrs Fs balance on her Aqua card had just exceeded its limit of £3,800 
and she was only making minimum payments and not paying down the debt. Her 
unsecured loan total by now, again according to the data available to NewDay 
exceeded £11,000.
NewDay said it did not obtain evidence of income and expenditure and it wasn't 
required to do so as it isnt standard industry practice. It said it uses another method 
to estimate a customer's nondiscretionary expenses. NewDay said there were no 
concerns in terms of the affordability of the account. I dont agree there were no 
concerns. NewDays own data indicated that Mrs F was maximising her credit by 
reaching her limit quickly and making only minimum payments. And while income 
and expenditure checks might not be warranted with a modest credit limit, the £600 
offered should have been seen in the context of Mrs Fs existing credit limit and 
usage on her Aqua card. Im persuaded this was enough to warrant deeper checks. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
As I mentioned above, Im not disputing Mrs F when she says she was in financial 
difficulty. But I havent seen any evidence e.g. bank statements showing income and 
expenditure, about Mrs Fs financial circumstances prior to the lending decision in 
January 2017. Without evidence of this Im unable to understand what, if anything, 
NewDay might have found out if it completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
nor whether it made a fair lending decision.
NewDay has confirmed no statements were generated on this account as it was 
never utilised by Mrs F. As Im not persuaded that NewDay acted unfairly, nor did 
Mrs F utilise the credit, subject to any further information I might receive from Mrs F 
or NewDay I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence following my provisional 
decision I see no reason to depart from its conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Maxine SuttonOmbudsman