DRN-2894011
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from National Savings and Investment (NS&I) 
upon maturity of his bonds.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In short, Mr M is unhappy with NS&I because he had issues accessing his 
account with them, and because they delayed payment of funds into his nominated bank 
account upon maturity of his bonds.
NS&I since paid the funds into Mr Ms account on 23 April 2021, but Mr M remained 
unhappy with the service he received.
NS&I awarded a total of £125 compensation to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill (made up of 
two payments of £50 and £75), as well as paying an additional £28.66 interest on the funds 
as a result of the delays. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she considered NS&Is offer to be fair and 
reasonable. Mr M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Ive considered the service Mr M has received from NS&I, and its clear he has been left 
upset and frustrated with the way he has been dealt with. I can see, for example, that he has 
had to make numerous calls over the space of two months to try and resolve the issues he 
was having, and NS&I have acknowledged that there was a delay in the payment of Mr Ms 
funds. 
However, NS&I have awarded a total of £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused, as 
well as an additional amount of £28.66 interest on the funds as a result of their delays. But 
Mr M does not consider this to be commensurate to the experience he has had and submits 
that further compensation should be awarded.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to
award further compensation to Mr M, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions
of NS&I have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not 
persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, and that Mr M feels he has lost two 
months of his time. But NS&I have apologised for their handling of the matter and have 
sought to put things right by paying compensation and interest. And having considered the 
circumstances, I think the amount offered by NS&I is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience caused, so I do not consider any further award to be warranted in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I will not be asking NS&I to take 
any further action, as I consider their offer of compensation and interest to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman