DRN-3559164
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of S. 
What happened
S held business interruption insurance with Allianz. S claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. Allianz turned 
down Ss claim as they didnt think the policy provided cover. 
S complained to Allianz and said:
The insuring clause, within the business interruption section of the Policy, states 
[You] will pay [our client] for Business Interruption by any Event, excluding ... but 
[you] will pay for such Business Interruption not otherwise excluded which itself 
results from a Specified Event.
It also states [You] will pay [our client] for Business Interruption by any Event, 
excluding ...but [you] will pay for subsequent Business Interruption which itself 
results from a cause not otherwise excluded".
S said the definition of specified event includes locked-out workers, which isnt defined in 
the policy. S said a reasonable person entering into the contract would interpret this to mean 
workers locked out of their workplace. S said its employees had been locked out of their 
workplace by the Government Regulations and therefore the policy should cover its claim. S 
added that Covid-19 and the Government Regulations werent excluded in the policy and 
therefore there should also be cover under the second clause. 
Allianz said that the wording S was relying on was within the exclusions section of the policy. 
They said that the term locked-out workers refers to employers taking action to prevent 
employees from working in response to an industry dispute. But, in any event, the business 
interruption cover under the policy requires there to have been material damage to property 
and Covid-19 didnt damage property. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for Ss claim. She also didnt agree with Ss view that a 
reasonable person entering into the contract would understand locked-out workers to 
include an inability to enter premises due to the Government Regulations. 
S asked for an ombudsmans decision. It didnt accept that the policy definition of an event 
required damage to property and said that accidental loss would suffice. S also raised the 
following extension which it said provides cover without the requirement for damage to have 
occurred: 
any claim resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in a
consequence of A. accidental loss  within the United Kingdom shall be 
understood to be Business Interruption.
S said accidental loss could include the loss of staff or the ability to run its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
S had made a number of detailed points. Id like to reassure S that I have considered them 
all but in this decision Im going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
Business Interruption
Under the heading cover Ss policy says:
The Insurer will pay the Insured for Business Interruption by any Event, 
excluding
The policy lists a number of exclusions, within which it says:
but the Insurer will pay for 
i   such Business Interruption not otherwise excluded which itself results from a      
Specified Event
ii. subsequent Business Interruption which itself results from a cause not 
otherwise excluded
The policy defines business interruption as:
Loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business carried on 
by the Insured at the Premises in consequence of an Event to property used by 
the Insured at the Premises for the purpose of the Business.
Event is defined as:
Accidental loss or destruction of or damage to property used by the Insured at 
the Premises for the purpose of the Business.
The wording S has referred to is set out within the exclusions and I dont think it provides 
separate cover. However, even if I was to accept it did provide separate cover, the clause 
would require accidental loss or destruction of or damage to property used by S at its 
premises. And Im not persuaded that the interruption or interference with Ss business was as a result of accidental loss or destruction of or damage to property used by S at its 
premises. 
In reaching a decision, Ive taken account of what I consider to be relevant law including
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm) (TKC London) where 
the Court said:
the word loss takes its colour from its context. The immediate context of the 
word loss within the definition of Event is that it is followed by the words or 
destruction of or damage tothose words strongly suggest that loss here is 
similarly intended to have a physical aspect
it therefore seems to me that the expression loss .. of .. property in the 
definition of Event cannot sensibly be interpreted as including mere temporary 
loss of use of property.
I dont think a temporary loss of use of Ss premises would be considered a loss to property 
and I havent seen anything to persuade me that the interruption to Ss business was as a 
result of destruction or damage. 
Ive considered Ss point that a reasonable policyholder would consider that locked-out 
workers would mean a worker being locked out of their workplace. However, Im not going 
to make a finding on that. I say that because I think that the definitions within the policy are 
clear that this wording would only provide cover where there is accidental loss, destruction of 
or damage to property at Ss premises. And, as Ive said above, Im not persuaded that 
Covid-19 or the Government Regulations caused accidental loss, destruction of or damage 
to property at Ss premises. As such, I think Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in finding this 
doesnt cover Ss claim. 
The extension
S also referred to an extension within the policy, but I note it only quoted part of it. The 
relevant part of the extension says:
Any claim resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in 
consequence of
A. accidental loss, destruction or damage at any Situation or to any Property 
shown below shall be considered to be Business Interruption.
S hasnt indicated which Situation or Property it thinks its claim should be covered under, but 
Ive looked at the Situations and Property listed and I dont believe that a loss of staff or the 
ability to run its business would be an accidental loss to any of the Situations or Property 
listed. Therefore, this extension doesnt cover Ss claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer S was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, Im satisfied Allianz acted fairly and reasonably when turning down Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman