DRN-4176249
The complaint
T, a riding school, complains about a claim it made on its equestrian insurance policy, which 
Society of Lloyds declined to cover.
Ts complaint is brought by Miss G.
What happened
Miss G made a claim on Ts Society of Lloyds equestrian insurance policy for cover to 
defend a claim brought against T by a third party who fell off a horse and sustained injuries.
Society of Lloyds considered the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster 
determined the claim had been notified almost 20 months after the incident claimed for took 
place and that this had prejudiced Society of Lloyds position. As such Society of Lloyds 
declined the claim as it hadnt been notified immediately after the occurrence that gave rise 
to it in accordance with its policy terms.
Miss G doesnt agree with the stance Society of Lloyds have taken. She said the matter was 
notified as soon as she became aware of a claim against T and that she had no reason to 
believe that a claim would be made before she notified them.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Miss G 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine, 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint for the same reasons set out by the 
investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
The Insured shall give immediate notice in writing to the Underwriters of any occurrence 
that may give rise to a claim under this Policy and shall give all such additional information 
as the Underwriters may require. Every claim, writ, summons, notice of adjudication, referral 
notice or process and all documents relating thereto shall be forwarded to the Underwriters 
immediately they are received.
Miss G says that whilst she was aware of the incident that gave rise to the claim, there was 
nothing that led her to believe that a claim would be forthcoming until she received a letter of 
claim from the third partys Solicitor. She feels that the incident wasnt something the third 
party could say was attributable to T in any way and therefore wasnt something she had to 
notify Society of Lloyds about sooner.
Ive considered what both parties have said and in particular the information Miss G gave 
about the claim to Society of Lloyds loss adjuster. She provided an account of the incident 
that gave rise to the claim, which involved the third party falling off a horse from Ts riding 
school, becoming unwell and falling unconscious. Emergency services were called and the 
third party was then air lifted to hospital. The nature of the third partys injuries described by 
Miss G and their subsequent effect on the third party are undoubtedly serious in nature. 
Given the nature of the incident and the subsequent effect of it on the third party, Im not 
persuaded that this was something a reasonable policyholder would have considered wasnt 
an occurrence that could give rise to a claim. The incident occurred during a riding session 
that T supplied. I appreciate that Miss G disputes T was responsible for the injuries the third 
party sustained but that doesnt mean that this wasnt an occurrence that could give rise to a 
claim. The merits of the claim itself are, to that end, of no consequence- its the possibility of 
a claim arising from such an occurrence that is and given the way in which things unfolded, I 
think it's reasonable to assume that a claim might have followed from the third party. 
Because of this I agree that T ought to have reported the claim as soon as possible after the 
incident occurred. 
In reaching this conclusion I dont agree with Miss Gs Solicitor that the reporting obligation 
itself is unclear, ambiguous or open to interpretation in the circumstances of this particular 
incident. And as the investigator has said, I think that T as a business, should reasonably 
have been aware that an incident such as the one the third party made against T, could well 
have given rise to the claim that followed. 
In deciding Ts complaint, Ive also given thought to whether Miss Gs failure to report the 
claim sooner prejudiced Society of Lloyds position. If it hadnt, I might have been inclined to 
reach a different outcome to Ts complaint. But Im satisfied that it did. Society of Lloyds 
have set out persuasive reasons why they werent able to properly investigate or establish 
the legal position some 20 months after the incident. In particular, they refer to difficulties 
now collecting contemporaneous statements from Miss G as well as the other witness. 
There are now missing items that might otherwise have been available shortly after the 
incident occurred, such as Ts rider registration form which sets out the declared 
competence of the rider (and so was key to the crux of the claim), the signed riders code of 
conduct and the post incident communications including messages that might support Miss 
Gs account of how the incident unfolded. Without these items I can see why Society of 
Lloyds considers its position has been prejudiced and I dont think its unfair for it to reach 
this conclusion it has given the allegations being made by the third party against T. To be 
clear, Im not making any findings about the merits of the third partys claim in reaching this 
conclusion; rather Im focussing on Society of Lloyds inability to properly investigate the 
matter in the absence of evidence that would have been available had the claim been made 
shortly after the incident took place.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive not considered Society of Lloyds suggestion that the claim 
could be declined on reliance of the policy requirement for the rider registration form and 
verification /documentation of ability/competency to be kept up to date. Thats because I 
think it was reasonable for them to decline cover in the way that they did on reliance Ts 
failure to notify its claim shortly after the occurrence which gave rise to it took place.
Finally, Miss G has said that she can provide evidence of everything Society of Lloyds have 
said is missing to help support Ts claim. If shes able to do this, then I would expect Society 
of Lloyds to consider things further. But as matters stand, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more based on the position theyve taken in response to Ts complaint.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss G but I hope Ive provided a 
thorough explanation of why I wont be upholding Ts complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against Society of Lloyd's. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman