DRN-3825790
The complaint
Miss S complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to turn down her income protection claim. 
What happened
Miss S is covered under her employers income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit in the event she cant carry out her occupation due to illness or injury. The 
scheme has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In 2021, Miss S stopped work due to ill health. She then returned to work on a phased 
return, but stopped work again in 2022. A claim was later submitted to L&G. After 
consideration, L&G turned down the claim as it didnt think Miss S met the scheme definition 
of incapacity. Unhappy with this, Miss S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought L&Gs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the medical evidence. 
Miss S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A claim is paid in the event Miss S meets the schemes incapacity definition. The policy 
schedule confirms the incapacity definition is own occupation. This is defined in the policy 
as:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period.
The policy explains that benefit will start after the deferred period has ended.
Ive therefore considered the available medical evidence in order to decide whether L&Gs 
claims decision was fair.
Miss S says she has multiple physical illnesses and a mental health condition which prevent 
her from working.
I see that Miss S was assessed by an occupational health physician in January 2022, just 
before she stopped work again. Miss S described a background history of anxiety and 
depression and how her ongoing perceptions of stress in work were impacting her. The 
physician concluded that she was fit to work, but made some suggestions for her employer 
to consider.  
In April 2022, L&Gs clinical specialist (who is a nurse) spoke with Miss S. She said that 
Miss S had experienced problems at work, and her mental health had suffered as a result of 
work pressures and her physical health. It was noted that Miss Ss GP had recommended 
mindfulness. Miss S was having cognitive behavioural therapy arranged through her private 
medical insurance. Finally, she explained Miss S thought the likelihood of issues being 
resolved at work in the immediate future was unlikely as she had raised grievances, and 
these take time to be resolved. The nurse thought that Miss S was medically fit to return to 
work, but said this would be dependent on the resolution of the perceived work-related 
issues.
In June 2022, the GP explained that Miss S had a number of conditions, including anxiety 
and depression. They also confirmed the symptoms Miss S experienced. It appears the 
majority of the symptoms related to her mental health. Although the GP said that Miss S 
could not work because of her symptoms, they did not go into detail about this or explain 
how Miss Ss symptoms impacted her ability to do her job. 
L&Gs medical officer is a GP with a specialist interest in mental health (clinical 
commissioning lead for mental health). He considered that Miss Ss work-related issues 
were the primary barrier to her returning to work, and did not consider that Miss S had a 
serious mental illness which would prevent her from working. Whilst he accepted Miss S was 
unlikely to resume work unless her work-related stressors were addressed, he said this 
would not fall within the incapacity definition. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that there isnt sufficient evidence to support that Miss S 
met the schemes incapacity definition. Whilst I appreciate Miss S does have some physical 
conditions, the evidence doesnt suggest these conditions prevented her from working during 
the deferred period. The majority of the evidence centres around Miss Ss mental health, and 
how this has been impacted by issues in the workplace. 
It appears to be accepted that so long as Miss Ss perceived workplace issues continue, she 
would be unable to return to her role with her employer. But the aim of the policy is to pay 
benefit if the insured is too ill to carry out the duties of their occupation, not to pay benefit 
whilst workplace issues are resolved. I do recognise that Miss S was experiencing mental 
health symptoms, but the evidence does not support that she was experiencing a mental 
health condition which was so severe that she would be unable to perform the essential 
duties of her occupation.
I therefore find that it was reasonable for L&G to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman