DRN-3313243
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Erudio Student Loans Limited administered her student
loans.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs M has told us she deferred her student loan payments since graduating. In July 2013 
Mrs M completed a deferral application which was approved. Mrs M has told us she moved 
home in July 2013 and notified the Student Loans Company (SLC) over the phone. SLC 
says it has no record of Mrs M updating her address.
In November 2013 Erudio purchased Mrs Ms student loans from SLC and in March 2014 it 
sent a Notice of Assignment to the address on file.
The deferment period ended in July 2014. Erudio says neither it or SLC received contact 
from Mrs M or a new deferment application. As a result, Mrs Ms loan accrued arrears from 
this point. Mrs M has told us she moved to a new address in July 2014.
In October 2015 Erudio completed a tracing exercise and found Mrs Ms new address. In 
January 2016 Erudio sent Mrs M a Notice of Default due to the arrears on the loan account. 
In March 2016 Erudio sent Mrs M a Termination Letter asked her to repay the outstanding 
balance in full. Erudio continued to send arrears letters to Mrs M in the months that followed. 
Erudios contact notes show it called Mrs M several times in 2016 and early 2017 but was 
told she wasnt available.
In February 2017 Erudio received a letter from Mrs M who confirmed her address was the 
same it had traced her to. Mrs M told Erudio she hadnt been aware it had taken over her 
student loans or that they were in arrears. Erudio cancelled the termination process and Mrs 
M successfully applied for a deferment. Mrs M has subsequently been approved for further 
deferments.
In December 2020 Erudio told Mrs M she didnt qualify for an age-related loan write off 
because of the arrears on her account. Erudio confirmed that once the arrears were cleared, 
Mrs Ms loan balance would be cancelled.
Mrs M complained and Erudio sent her a final response. Erudio said the last deferment 
application that was approved was in July 2013 and that it had written to the address 
provided by SLC.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Eruido had waited too long to try and trace Mrs M and upheld her 
complaint. Eruido asked to appeal and said Mrs M hadnt updated her address with either it 
or SLC. As Erudio asked to appeal, Mrs Ms case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently asked both parties for some additional comment and information. Ive also looked 
at the original loan terms and can see they require a borrower to keep SLC updated with 
address changes. I asked Mrs M whether shed updated her address with SLC and she has 
confirmed this was completed over the phone. However, I also asked Erudio to check 
whether SLC had any record of Mrs Ms new addresses. SLC said it had the same address 
on file for Mrs M from 2006 onwards. SLC confirmed that Mrs M didnt update her address 
with it during the period in question.
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved Ill based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened based on all the available information and evidence. In this case, Mrs M told us 
she moved in July 2013 and updated SLC. But Mrs Ms also told us she moved again in July 
2014. I would expect there to be at least two address updates with SLC during this period 
but its confirmed there were none. In my view, the available information supports Erudios 
claim that Mrs Ms address wasnt updated.
Mrs M has confirmed she didnt receive notice her loans had been sold to Erudio but I think 
thats because the letters were sent to her previous address. And Mrs M didnt receive follow 
up correspondence for the same reason. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I havent found it 
was a mistake by Erudio that led to her not receiving important correspondence about her 
loan.
I think its reasonable to note Mrs M had deferred her loan payments on several occasions 
before. So Mrs M wouldve been broadly aware of the process involved and requirement to 
apply annually. And I think Mrs M would most likely have been told by SLC that her previous 
deferment was due to end around July 2014 so shed need to apply again. Mrs M has told us 
she thought the loans had been written off, but Ive not seen anything that shows that 
information was given to her by Erudio. And Mrs M hasnt sent us any evidence to show she 
was told there was no need to defer payments going forward.
Our investigator thought Erudio had waited too long to carry out a tracing activity. Whilst 
Erudio couldve taken that step sooner, Im satisfied the loan terms say the borrower should 
keep their contact details up to date. And, as Ive said above, I havent seen evidence Mrs 
Ms address was updated either before or after the loans were sold to Erudio.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. As 
Im satisfied Erudio has dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly I dont intend to tell it to waive the 
arrears or take any further action.
I invited both parties to respond with further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Mrs M responded and said she had updated her address with SLC, in addition to having a 
postal redirection in place for 12 months after she moved in July 2013. Mrs M also confirmed 
she had previously changed her address with SLC so was aware of the process involved.
Mrs M reiterated that she had successfully applied for deferrals between 1996 and 2013 . In 
addition, Mrs M said shes spoken with SLC which confirmed Erudio insisted on no interference in terms of the administration of the loan accounts after it acquired them. Mrs M 
says SLC wouldnt have been able to amend her address with Erudio. Mrs M confirmed the 
outstanding loan balance hadnt been written off when she turned 50 as a result of the 
arrears. And Mrs M raised other decisions weve issued concerning complaints about Erudio 
that had similar issues. 
Erudio confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs M for the level of detail included in her response. I dont seek to suggest 
Mrs M wasnt willing to complete further deferral applications. My role is to look into Erudios 
actions to see whether it made a mistake or treated Mrs M unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs M, but I still havent found that Erudio treated her unfairly in this case. Ill explain why. 
Mrs M has told us she had a postal redirection in place so shouldve received the new 
deferral application in July 2014. But Mrs M has also told us she moved home twice around 
this time. Once in July 2013 and again in July 2014. Mrs M hasnt told us about a follow up 
postal redirection. And, as I said in my provisional decision, SLC has confirmed that Mrs M 
didnt update her address in July 2013 or after that. Leaving all other issues to one side, I 
think its more likely than not that if Mrs M had updated her address with SLC it either 
wouldve changed it on its systems or asked her to contact Erudio for the same purpose. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, but I havent found that Erudio made a mistake when it wrote 
to her at the last known address - as supplied by SLC. 
I understand the loan wasnt written off when Mrs M turned 50. But the loan terms say a loan 
can be written off it its not in breach of the agreement. And, as no valid deferral was in place 
from July 2014, Im satisfied the arrears were genuine. Where the loan is in arrears, its in 
default of the agreement. Whilst I know my decision will disappoint Mrs M, as Im satisfied 
the arrears are genuine, I dont have grounds to tell Erudio to write off the remaining 
balance. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints on an individual basis. Ive read 
the decisions Mrs M has quoted. But Im satisfied Ive reached a fair decision having 
considered all the available evidence in Mrs Ms case. Based on the information Ive seen 
and for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I havent been persuaded to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
As Im satisfied Erudio has dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly I dont intend to tell it to waive 
the arrears or take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman