DRN-3127103
The complaint
Miss C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked her current account and was slow to unblock 
it, which she says has led to significant problems for her personally and financially.
 
What happened
On 12 August 2020 HSBC blocked Miss Cs current account following receipt of an 
allegation linked to some credits shed received. Miss C says she did all she reasonably 
could to resolve the matter, but it wasnt until 11 November 2020 the block was removed. 
During this time Miss C says she couldnt pay her bills, including her HSBC credit card and 
loan payments. 
HSBC accepted it could have done better, especially in relation to a branch visit. It thought 
had things proceeded as they should have the block would have been removed by 
1 September 2020. To put things right it:
- refunded interest and fees it had charged Miss C on her HSBC credit card account;
- asked the credit reference agencies (CRAs) to remove adverse information linked 
to missed payments to her HSBC accounts between 1 September 2020 and 
11 November 2020;
- gave Miss C a repair letter  a letter Miss C could give to other creditors to explain it 
was responsible for missed payments between 1 September 2020 and 
11 November 2020; and 
- paid Miss C £100 compensation.
Miss C didnt think this put things right. She explained to our service that while she couldnt 
access her account, she borrowed money from family and friends, which she had to pay 
back. She says this, alongside the arrears which built up with HSBC and third-party 
organisations, meant she couldnt get her accounts up-to-date. She says this led to her 
credit rating being diminished, her being unable to get a mortgage and the involvement of 
debt collectors. She also explained the huge impact this matter has had on her personally. 
The investigator was sympathetic to the difficulties Miss C found herself in and agreed 
HSBC had let her down by not removing the block sooner. The investigator asked Miss C 
what she thought needed to be done to put things right. Miss C said she thought HSBC 
should pay off what she owed to it and third-party organisations (about £15,000) so the 
accounts would show as closed/satisfied and pay what she still owed family and friends 
(about £1,100).
The investigator wasnt persuaded she could fairly ask HSBC to do as Miss C asked 
because she thought when HSBC unblocked Miss Cs account, Miss C ought to have been 
able to get her accounts up-to-date and repay what shed borrowed, and thereby avoided the 
problems she later experienced. She did, however, consider the impact this matter had on 
Miss C and was of the opinion £250 compensation, rather than the £100 compensation 
HSBC had paid her, was fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances. 
HSBC, with some reluctance, accepted the investigators recommendation. Miss C didnt. 
She felt HSBC had already admitted liability and therefore felt it had a duty to put things right 
for her. She didnt feel the steps HSBC had taken and compensation of £250 was enough. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC blocked the account following receipt of an allegation linked to some credits Miss C 
received. I dont find this goes against the account terms and conditions or find it inherently 
unreasonable. I note Miss C doesnt either. Miss C does, however, argue HSBC ought to 
have unblocked her account much sooner than it did.
Miss C, HSBC and the investigator all agree the block should have been removed sooner, 
and 1 September 2020 seems to be an acceptable date to all. This is the date after Miss C 
says she offered branch staff information related to the disputed credits, with some time built 
in for HSBC to review it and unblock the account, had the information been accepted. For 
completeness, I agree it took HSBC an unreasonable amount of time to remove the block 
and I find 1 September 2020 to be a reasonable date for it to have been removed by. What I 
now need to decide is what HSBC should do further - if anything - to put things right for 
Miss C.
Miss C needed to make payments to her HSBC credit card and loans, and third-party 
organisations. These appear to have been paid each month from the account by direct debit. 
The block HSBC placed on the account prevented these payments from being made. This 
caused Miss C to be in arrears with HSBC and third-party organisations. But it didnt cause 
her a loss other than perhaps some additional interest and/or fees. Miss C may have needed 
to borrow money for everyday expenses from family and friends. But these expenses would 
have been incurred regardless. In other words, Miss Cs income and expenses while the 
block was in place wouldnt have been materially impacted.
Miss Cs account statements show that although payments out of the account were blocked, 
payments in were allowed, and her monthly salary credited at the end of each month with 
most bills being paid at the start of the following month. Following her 31 July 2020 salary 
credit, I cant see another. Its reasonable to assume this money was received by Miss C via 
another account, so it seems likely she had money available to pay her bills, had she wanted 
to. I can also see on 13 August 2020 Miss Cs balance was about £615. This rose over the 
period through various ad-hoc credits to about £1,500. But Miss C says she borrowed more 
than £1,900 from family and friends. This suggests, despite not paying her bills, Miss C 
spent more than she had in the account while it was blocked. 
In any case, when the account was unblocked Miss C ought to have been able to use the 
money she hadnt spent through her account being blocked to catch-up on her missed 
payments to HSBC and the third-party organisations and repay her friends and family. 
HSBC, as part of the steps it took to put things right, refunded interest and fees on her 
HSBC accounts linked to this matter and asked the CRAs to amend Miss Cs credit record. 
Miss C then needed to explain what had happened to the third-party organisations and, with 
the support of the repair letter, ask them to do what HSBC had done regarding interest, fees 
and reporting to the CRAs. This ought to have put Miss C as close to the position shed been 
in before HSBCs mistake as practically possible.
Things, however, didnt work out this way. Miss C didnt catch-up on her missed payments, 
or repay her family and friends in full, or restart payments. This led to the arrears on her accounts continuing to increase in late 2020 and early 2021, which ultimately led to defaults 
and debt collection activity. I can also see Miss C remained behind with her council tax as 
she was issued with a final notice for about £650 in June 2021. 
Miss C says this happened because she couldnt pay the arrears shed built up and needed 
to repay her family and friends. But as set out above, HSBCs mistake didnt materially 
impact her income and expenses. So she should have been able to pay what she owed. 
Miss C has said her finances were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. I think its most 
likely this meant she didnt have the money - regardless of HSBCs mistake - to meet her 
financial commitments, and that it was this which led to the problems shes since 
experienced. 
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC can fairly be held responsible for the difficulties Miss C has 
found herself in for the reasons set out above. And I find the actions it took with her HSBC 
accounts and the provision of the repair letter were appropriate in the circumstances.
I do, however, agree with the investigator that £100 compensation doesnt fairly reflect the 
impact the delay in HSBC unblocking the account had on Miss C. Given the efforts she says 
she made, over a long period of time, I consider £250 compensation a fair and reasonable 
amount. It follows I intend to require HSBC to pay Miss C this sum, in total, in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused her.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss C a further £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss C a further £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman