DRN-1209184
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought single premium PPI policies with two personal loans they took out over 
the phone in June 2001 and March 2003. The policies provided cover for Mrs D if she 
couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Im not 
upholding their complaint for reasons that Ill explain.
June 2001 PPI
Nationwide no longer has a recording of the phone call when this PPI sale took place, or a 
copy of the loan agreement Mr and Mrs D would have signed. That isnt particularly 
surprising given the amount of time thats now passed since then. But based on what we 
know about Nationwides phone sales at around this time, I think its more likely than not that 
the optional nature of the PPI would have been made clear to Mr and Mrs D during the call.
Following the call, the loan agreement would have been produced and sent to Mr and Mrs D 
for signing. And the PPI would have been clearly shown as Optional Credit Insurance on 
the agreement - set out separately to the loan amount they were borrowing. 
So I think Mr and Mrs D would have realised that they had a choice about whether or not to 
buy the PPI and actively decided to do so. But I can understand why they may not be able to 
remember this now, as memories of such things do tend to fade with time.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. This means it didnt need to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for their circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs D were given clear enough information about the policy so they could decide if 
they wanted to buy it. I think its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D 
about the PPI wasnt as good as it could have been. But from what I know about their 
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information would have changed their minds 
about buying it. I say this because:Mrs D appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mrs D says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. But the PPI 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and, potentially for longer than the sick 
pay would have lasted. If Mrs D had been unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, it could have paid out for the remaining term of the loan. And if she became 
unemployed, it could have paid out for up to twelve months. So I think that Mr and 
Mrs D would have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
Ive no real reason to think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs D. And its cost 
would have been shown on the loan agreement  including the amount of the 
premium; the interest payable on the premium, and the total cost. So I think Mr and 
Mrs D would have understood how much the PPI would cost them if they kept the 
policy for its full term. And given how long the policy could have paid out for they 
could have got back quite a bit more than they paid for it.
 
The policy was flexible and Mr and Mrs D got a proportionate refund of the single 
premium theyd paid for it when they took out a top-up loan and new PPI policy in 
March 2003.
 
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs D lost out by anything that Nationwide did wrong when it 
sold them the policy.
March 2003 PPI
Nationwide dont have a recording of the call when this PPI was sold either. But I have seen 
a copy of the signed loan agreement and a phone script from this time. And, once again, Im 
satisfied from these, together with what we know more generally about Nationwides sales 
practices at the time, Mr and Mrs D would have known the PPI was optional and actively 
decided to buy it. 
This policy wasnt recommended to Mr and Mrs D either. And for much the same reasons I 
gave in respect of the June 2001 sale, I dont think that if Nationwide had provided better 
information it would have changed Mr and Mrs Ds mind about buying the policy. As their 
circumstances seem largely unchanged between these two sales, I think theyd still have 
thought it gave them useful cover at an affordable cost.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman