DRN-4298391
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc dealt with a washing 
machine repair under her insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B took out a policy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) for her washing 
machine. The policy provides protection for mechanical or electrical breakdown, labour 
charges and damaged caused by accident. In April 2023, she reported a fault with her 
washing machine to D&G.
A technician attended Miss Bs home address and replaced the washing machine door seal. 
Miss G states the seal was very pungent and so the technician recommended that she spray 
inside the washing machine drum and the dispenser drawer with white vinegar to deodorise 
the machine.
Miss B said she followed the guidance given by the technician on several occasions and 
rinsed the machine on a hot cycle afterwards. She contacted D&G on 28 April 2023 to 
explain that the white vinegar solution hadnt resolved the smell from the door seal and her 
clothes smelled as a result. She didnt mention any skin irritation during this telephone call.
On 23 May 2023, Miss B contacted D&G again. In this call, she stated shed suffered an 
adverse skin reaction to the white vinegar, which had affected her entire body and led to her 
being unable to sleep. She said her mental health had deteriorated and shed suffered 
physical pain as a result. She further stated that shed required medical attention and 
medication to relieve the skin irritation. As Miss B thought D&G was responsible for what had 
happened, she complained.
On 24 May 2023, D&G issued its final response to Miss Bs complaint. It didnt uphold the 
complaint and stated that the suggestion that she use white vinegar was simply a cleaning 
suggestion by the technician who was unaware of any sensitivity to vinegar. It stated Miss B 
could raise a public liability claim with the manufacturer of the washing machine and offered 
her £20 as a gesture of goodwill in view of what had happened.
Being dissatisfied with how D&G proposed to resolve Miss Bs complaint, she referred it to 
our service. Our investigator empathised with Miss B but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They were persuaded Miss B had suffered an adverse reaction as depicted in 
photographs shed provided our service. But there wasnt any medical evidence 
accompanying those images that showed the reaction was due to the use of white vinegar 
as recommended by D&Gs technician. So, they didnt think D&G needed to take further 
action to resolve this complaint.
D&G agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Miss B didnt and asked an 
ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Miss B and D&G that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think D&G made a mistake, or treated Miss B unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. In order to uphold this complaint, Id have to be 
persuaded that Miss B suffered an adverse skin reaction as a consequence of using white 
vinegar to deodorise her washing machine. 
I can see all parties have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
points about this complaint. Ive read everything theyve sent us. But I hope theyll 
understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to this complaint.
Ill say at the outset that our investigator undertook a comprehensive investigation of this 
complaint. I agree with the view they reached in not upholding this complaint. Indeed, theres 
not a great deal I can add to what our investigators already told Miss B. I think they set out 
the position very clearly and thoroughly.
The available evidence shows that D&Gs technician recommended that Miss B use white 
vinegar inside the drum and dispenser drawer after a new door seal was fitted, which left an 
odour within the machine. 
D&G explained that it was unaware of Miss B suffering any allergy from white vinegar and 
had it known it wouldnt have suggested its use. Miss B has confirmed that she had no 
history of any skin allergy or reaction. As white vinegar is commonly used as a deodoriser 
and is a natural multi-purpose cleaning product, Im persuaded the suggestion that Miss B 
use white vinegar to eradicate the smell of the door seal was reasonable.
I accept that Miss B suffered an adverse skin reaction; Ive seen photographs depicting what 
looks like a significant and painful irritation to the skin. However, I havent seen any medical 
evidence detailing the cause of the skin irritation, when it started or why its onset may have 
been delayed. I can see that Miss B was asked to provide medical evidence to our service 
and its unclear why this is missing.
Ive listened to a call recording from 28 April 2023, when Miss B contacted D&G to discuss 
the washing machine repair that had been undertaken earlier that month. She stated that 
shed completed hot washes after using white vinegar as a deodoriser on several occasions. 
And she explained that the smell of the door seal had persisted and was making her clothes 
smell horrific following multiple wash cycles. 
Theres no mention during this telephone conversation of any adverse reaction to Miss Bs 
health. Had the adverse skin reaction have been present at this point Id have expected Miss 
B to have mentioned it during this call. Im therefore not persuaded the skin reaction had 
occurred at this time.Ive listened carefully to another call recording D&G shared with our service. This call is 
dated 23 May 2023. Within the call, Miss B explains the presence of skin irritation symptoms, 
which she attributes to the use of white vinegar over the previous month.
The evidence our service has received suggests that Miss B didnt suffer an adverse 
reaction until around 22 May 2023, which was when she was prescribed medication by a 
doctor she consulted with at that time. I think its reasonable to infer that Miss B would have 
taken medical advice soon after the adverse reaction appeared. And, in the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary, I think time the skin irritation occurred on around 22 May 2023.
D&G asserts that, if the white vinegar had caused Miss Bs skin reaction, this would have 
occurred very soon after the machine had been sprayed with this substance. Im persuaded 
thats a plausible argument. 
D&G also argues that any vinegar used would likely be washed away through use of the 
washing machine. Again, Im satisfied this argument is plausible. And, as Miss B referred to 
using vinegar on several occasions and undertaking multiple wash cycles in April 2023, Im 
not persuaded vinegar would have remained within the washing machine a month later when 
she reported an adverse skin reaction to D&G. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think its unlikely that the use of white vinegar 
to deodorise the washing machine over the previous month would be responsible for causing 
the adverse skin reaction Miss B reported to D&G in late May 2023. In the absence of 
medical evidence confirming that white vinegar caused the skin irritation Miss B complains of 
I havent seen enough to safely uphold this complaint.
I understand that D&G offered to replace Miss Bs washing machine because of the smell 
persisting. I think this was a reasonable step for it to take and it demonstrates that D&G took 
Miss Bs concerns about the odour seriously. If it hadnt replaced the washing machine, Id 
have asked D&G to consider doing so to address the persisting smell of the door seal. It also 
offered to pay Miss B £20 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect the trouble and upset caused by 
the smell. As D&G has taken the action Id expect it to take to resolve the issue with the 
lingering odour, Im not going to direct it to do anything further to settle this complaint. 
I understand Miss B will be disappointed with this decision. I appreciate the reasons why she 
brought this complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined, I cant uphold this 
complaint. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Miss Bs dispute with D&G 
informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss B any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman