DRN-1622609
The complaint
Mrs M says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a PPI policy in 1990 in connection with a mortgage. Mrs M took out PPI to 
protect her repayments to the mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the policy, which 
provided cover if Mrs M couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Bradford & Bingley Plc disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt dispute that Mrs M had a pre-existing medical condition when 
she took out PPI with her mortgage in 1990. And in addition, there has been no 
disagreement that the policy limitations meant that Mrs M wouldnt have been able to claim 
for absence from work as a result of her pre-existing medical condition. 
The questions I need to consider are whether Bradford & Bingley Plc gave Mrs M 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she 
could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying. And whether in giving 
any advice or recommendation, Bradford & Bingley Plc took adequate steps to ensure the 
product it recommended was suitable for her needs. 
Bradford & Bingley Plc said they did not give Mrs M any advice about whether she should 
take out the policy. So, Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt need to make sure that the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M. But they did need to provide her with information sufficient for her to 
make an informed choice. Having considered the case and all the submissions made in this 
case, I do not think that Bradford & Bingley Plc ensured Mrs M was in a position to make a 
properly informed choice. I explain why I say this below.
I note that there is some information about existing medical conditions on the mortgage 
application form. And Bradford & Bingley Plc has placed weight on the wording in the 
application form as they think it shows that Mrs M would have been aware of the exclusions 
at the time of the sale. 
It says, 
Either or both applicants or a guarantor are eligible for this cover on completion of the loan, 
if under normal state retirement age and except in relation to 
a) Impending redundancy or unemployment
b) Known medical conditions which may become the subject of a claim.
But the application form that Mrs M signed was most likely completed by the representative. 
I say that because that is the testimony that Mrs M provided us and which we shared with 
Bradford & Bingley Plc and they have not made any representation calling that into question. 
In saying this, I also note that the application appears to have been completed in a different 
hand to that which signed the form and it includes industry wording that may not have been 
the first recourse for a consumer. So, Mrs M did not, most likely, read the document and its 
associated warnings. 
But even had Mrs M seen this PPI section on the form, her understanding of the policy at the 
point of sale would still have been based on what the representative told her about it, if 
anything. And I have been provided with no evidence of what the representative told Mrs M 
in this section or what the representative was supposed to read out in addition to the 
questions asked on the form or what the representative was told to explain to Mrs M about 
this whilst getting the mortgage application form completed.  
The mortgage application form later asks the following question, Have you or any person 
connected with this policy ever had a serious illness or are currently suffering with a medical 
condition?
The form provides a space for a Yes or a No answer. The form contains a No in this box. 
Bradford & Bingley Plc say that because Mrs M answered No to a question they think now 
that she should have answered Yes to, that they cannot be held responsible for the miss-
sale complaint that has now been brought. 
Mrs Ms unchallenged testimony is that this section was completed by the representative. 
But, even had the representative read the question out aloud to Mrs M, its not clear that this 
would have been sufficient in itself to put her on notice about how to answer the question. I 
say that because the terms serious and suffering are not further defined. So, it could be 
possible to have a chronic condition, as Mrs M had, which was treated with medication and 
regularly reviewed but might not strike the consumer as serious or something they were 
suffering from, depending on what they understood those terms to mean. 
Ive noted the policy document that Bradford & Bingley Plc has provided. It does contain 
information pertaining to pre-existing medical conditions. But Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt 
just have to provide information to Mrs M, it had to significantly highlight important 
information to her. The information relating to exclusions is in the middle of small, closely-
worded text on page 6 of 10 pages of script (12 pages in all). In choosing to present this 
information in this way the business took the risk that a consumer would consider the 
information to be small print. 
To understand the exclusion Mrs M was required to cross reference the policy information 
with the section of definitions. As such this important information policy would only be clear 
to someone who read the document reasonably closely. And I havent been shown any 
evidence from Bradford & Bingley Plc that their sales process directed Mrs M that she 
should, or made allowance for her to, read closely this policy document before Mrs M was 
asked to buy it. So, I dont think that this document is, in itself, evidence that the important 
information was sufficiently highlighted to Mrs M at the point of sale. 
And Ive already noted that the sales process that Bradford & Bingley Plc put Mrs M through 
seems to have relied on the representative explaining the key features of the policy to Mrs 
M. We cant know what was discussed at the time. And Bradford & Bingley Plc has not 
provided evidence of what the representative was trained to explain to a customer. But even if we had such evidence, we couldnt know that guidance had been followed in this particular 
case. 
So, whilst its possible that the policys key features were clearly explained to Mrs M whilst 
the representative took care of the paperwork, on balance, I think that Bradford & Bingley Plc 
has not demonstrated that it provided Mrs M with information sufficient to allow her to make 
an informed choice about the policy. 
Its possible Mrs M received fuller documentation about the policy after the sale. Taking 
account of regulations at the time of the sale is one of the things I have considered in 
reaching my determination. Another consideration is good industry practice at the time the 
policy was sold. But Im not convinced that it has ever represented good industry practice to 
rely on post sale documentation to make up for missing or misleading information at the 
point of sale. 
For the reasons given above I dont think that in this case Barclaycard did give Mrs M 
enough information and help so she could make an informed decision before she made a 
final commitment to buy her insurance policy.
So, would better or more information have put Mrs M off the policy? I am persuaded that it 
would. Mrs M told us that approximately eight years before the sale she had undergone 
surgery for her condition. Mrs M told us this surgery had not been wholly successful and that 
further surgery had been precluded by this earlier procedure. And the medical evidence that 
Mrs M provided says that her condition was chronic and was worsening. And it required 
regular check-ups for the condition and for her pain management strategy. So, on balance, I 
think Mrs M wouldve wanted to avoid a policy which wouldnt have covered her for a 
condition she may reasonably have expected at the time to lead to her having to take time 
off work in the future. Looked at overall, even though Mrs M wouldve been able to claim 
other benefits the policy offered, I think this policy limitation wouldve been enough to put 
Mrs M off taking out this PPI. 
So, it follows that I think Bradford & Bingley Plc should refund the PPI premiums she paid.   
I have thought about everything that Bradford & Bingley Plc has said but it doesnt affect my 
decision. I think that the policy was miss-sold and Bradford & Bingley Plc needs to do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley Plc should put Mrs M in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Bradford & 
Bingley Plc should:
Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mrs M made any successful claim under the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley Plc can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Bradford & Bingley Plc must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Bradford & Bingley Plc Building 
Society who should put things right by paying Mrs M compensation as Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman