DRN-4094831
The complaint
Mr S complains International General Insurance Company (UK) Ltd [IGI] has unfairly 
declined a claim hes made on his structural defects insurance policy.
What happened
IGI is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of IGIs agent, for which it has accepted responsibility. Any reference to IGI includes 
the actions of its agent.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mr S owns a new build property which has the benefit of a structural defects 
insurance policy underwritten by IGI.
Following heavy rain, Mr S found water ingress into one of the bedrooms which had 
resulted in damage to the ceiling. He initially made a claim on his household 
insurance but this was declined due to defective workmanship. 
Mr S then made a claim on his defects insurance policy and IGI appointed an agent 
to investigate and validate the claim. Following an inspection of the property, the 
agent concluded the damage was as a result of problems with the flat roof balcony of 
the floor above.
IGI declined the claim and said two endorsements on the policy relating to damage 
caused by flat roofs and balconies applied and that meant the claim wasnt covered 
by the policy. 
Mr S complained to IGI but it maintained the decline decision. Mr S raised a 
complaint with this Service, but having considered all the evidence, our Investigator 
didnt uphold it so Mr S asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show 
there is cover for the claim under the policy. When an insurer relies on an exclusion 
or an endorsement to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show they apply. Ill be 
considering the evidence in light of this principle while keeping in mind what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr Ss structural defects policy doesnt cover every peril that might impact a property 
and this is common with many insurance policies. The terms of the policy set out 
what the parties can expect from the cover and Im unlikely to tell an insurer it should 
pay a claim thats not covered under the policy terms.
IGI declined the claim saying the following endorsements, detailed in the certificate of 
insurance, apply:
Any claim relating to or resulting from flat roofs are excluded under the policy 
cover.
Any claim relating to or resulting from balconies forming flat roofs are 
excluded from the policy cover
Having inspected the property, IGIs surveyor provided a report which concluded the 
damage was caused by problems with the balconies:
There is only a very small narrow drainage outlet installed to serve each roof 
balcony. We found under foot-traffic, that the Astro turf was waterlogged and 
it appears that the terraced structure beneath could have been 
compromisedThe water damage to the rear first floor bedroom is directly 
below the drainage outlet from the balcony that services the bedroom on the 
second floor level. 
Within the evidence on file is a copy of a surveyors report from a prospective 
purchaser of Mr Ss property. This includes the comment:
 The rear second floor balcony and the ground and first floor rear addition 
roof coverings have been poorly installed with noted water under the actual 
roof coverings and poorly installed flashings. These defects have led to 
leaking in the ceilings below.
So, this report from a surveyor, independent of the parties, broadly agrees with IGIs 
view the cause of the damage is a problem with the balcony. Ive not been given any 
other expert evidence to consider which attributes the damage to an alternative 
cause. 
Having carefully considered the expert evidence, Im satisfied IGI has acted fairly in 
saying the endorsements relating to flat roofs and balconies apply and it follows it 
has also acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it declined the claim
I know Mr S doesnt think the policy should include the endorsements but this a 
commercial decision on the part of IGI and Im satisfied it has applied them fairly in 
this particular case.
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking IGI to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman