DRN-3356368
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G was given a fixed term loan by Everyday Loans in a meeting, in one of its branches. 
The details of this is given below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Monthly 
RepaymentsTotal with 
interestSettled
November 
201636 £3000 £235.38 £8473.68 10/09/2019
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Everyday Loans on the occasion it lent to Mr G, asked for information about his income and 
expenditure. It also says it carried out a credit check and used 2 months worth bank 
statements to verify what Mr G was saying. It also gathered a payslip and documentation 
relating to child benefits.
Everyday Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Mr G had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about what it 
says it did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is 
because, on balance, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this loan 
and I will explain why.
Our investigator felt that Everyday Loans had not calculated Mr Gs income fairly within its 
assessment. He said that it was most likely that Mr G had less income a month than it stated 
he had. This is because according to the investigator, Everyday Loans added child benefits 
that Mr G shared with his partner. The investigator said this amount should have been 
halved to reflect Mr Gs share. Everyday Loans has responded to this and told our service 
that even if this was the case it would still leave Mr G was disposable income of around £62. 
This would be if it amended its original assessment. 
I have also seen in the bank statements that Everyday Loans gathered, that Mr G was 
regularly using his overdraft facility and his account balance was close to the £1000 limit on 
a number of occasions. When I also consider the fees Mr G would have been paying to use 
this overdraft facility every month, I am currently minded to think that based on Everyday 
Loans assessment and recent re-assessment, that he would be left with very little, if any 
disposable income. I cant see in Everyday Loans assessment that it considered Mr Gs 
overdraft. So when I consider Mr G had less income each month than was stated and also 
an additional an credit commitment, I am minded to think the loan repayments were not 
affordable for Mr G and it was not fair for Everyday Loans to agree to this loan.
In addition, based on the information that Everyday Loans gathered and had in front of it, I 
also am minded to conclude that Mr G was having problems managing his finances. He told 
Everyday Loans that he held 6 short term loans from 4 finance providers in addition to a mail 
order account and 2 credit card accounts. I can see that his declaration is supported by what 
is showing in the bank statements it gathered. There are transactions going out where Mr G 
is paying his short-term loan instalments and then also money coming in where he is taking 
out new short-term loans. This is the case on 15 August for £200, 30 August for £350, 15 
September for £200 and 31st October for £750 and £500. When I look at how Mr G was 
managing his finances, I think it is clear to me that he was borrowing short term loans during 
this period to fill a shortfall in his finances. I think on seeing this Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that Mr G was having problems repaying his existing commitments and that 
adding an additional loan would cause difficulties for him. 
I acknowledge that Mr Gs loan was for consolidation purposes, but it was not clarified what 
Mr G was going to repay. So, I think it is likely he would still have had loans and credit cards 
to pay alongside an overdraft and this loan. It is clear to me when I see how much he would 
need to repay in credit commitments at this point, along with the amount borrowed from 
Everyday loans and how long the loan was for, that the repayments were not sustainable.
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Something which I think was the case here with Mr G 
when he took out this loan with Everyday Loans.
So, I am currently upholding this complaint and direct Everyday Loans to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr G responded and had no further comments. Everyday Loans did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has not made any new points for me to respond to and Everyday Loans has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr G 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman