DRN-3972604
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) dealt with him when his Consumer Hire 
agreement ended.
 What happened
In March 2016, Mr W was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Lex. The 
agreement was for a period of three years; with an advance payment of £881, followed by 35 
monthly repayments of £294. The agreement had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 
miles. A one year extension to 27 March 2020 was agreed.
Mr W contacted Lex in May 2020 as he said they had not contacted him about the lease 
coming to an end. He said hed received an invoice for rentals for the extended rental period. 
He said that Lex hadnt been able to collect the car because of the Covid pandemic. He said 
he was happy to extend the rental period because the pandemic had prevented him from 
getting another lease agreement. He was unhappy that Lex were charging him an extra £70 
every month.
He said hed written to Lex in June 2020 asking them to arrange to collect the car. He also 
asked them to cancel the invoices for the additional amounts as he had never agreed to the 
increased amount they were now charging him.
Mr W is unhappy that Lex didnt collect the car until the end of April 2021. He said that during 
that time they ignored his correspondence, continued to send him invoices and default 
notices, and added the monthly increase to his account balance.
In October 2021 Mr W complained to Lex as he had received an invoice for damage to the 
car. He said that Lex hadnt made him aware of the charge in the time period set by the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He was also unhappy that hed 
received an arrears letter, and that they hadnt implemented their proposed resolution to his 
earlier complaint about the lack of contact.
Lex said that they dont usually contact customers about returning a car at the end of the 
agreement. They also said they wouldnt have been able to collect the car due to the Covid 
pandemic.
Lex also explained that the reason the payments increased was because the extended 
period was not covered by the advance payment hed made at the start of the agreement. 
They said this only covered the period of the original agreement.
They did accept that there had been a lack of contact from them and offered £200 
compensation.
They said they didnt pay this as Mr W hadnt replied to say how he wanted this to be paid. 
They didnt uphold his complaint about the damage to the car or the arrears notice.
Mr W was unhappy with their response and brought his complaint to our service. He said he 
wanted a refund of his extra costs such as MOT and insurance, and still disputed the 
damage and excess mileage charges.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think Lex had acted unfairly by 
charging Mr W for the damage to the car. He was satisfied the damages charged for 
exceeded fair wear and tear as set out in the BVRLAs guidance on damages. He also 
thought the delays in issuing the invoice were reasonable due to the Covid 19 pandemic.
He also explained why he was satisfied that the mileage was accurate, and why it was 
reasonable for Lex to charge Mr W for the excess miles hed driven in the car.
He also explained why he didnt think it was reasonable to ask Lex to pay Mr Ws costs for 
insurance, a battery, a service and an MOT. This was because Lex had already to agreed to 
write off the outstanding balance of the other costs due.
He was satisfied that Lex had been clear to Mr W that he had to reply with his preferred 
option for the payment of its earlier offer of £200. So it wasnt unreasonable that they hadnt 
acted when Mr W failed to reply to their offer.
Our investigator also explained why he wasnt able to look into the issues regarding the 
delay in collecting the car, Lexs failure to contact Mr W at the end of the lease, the increase 
in monthly payments, and the removal of the credit markers from his credit file. This was 
because Mr W referred the complaint to this service a year after Lex had issued their final 
response letter.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. He was also unhappy that the 
investigator hadnt looked into the initial complaint points because of the time that had 
passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided, and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. Id like to reassure Mr 
W that Ive read all the information and comments hes supplied.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The original complaint
The time limits Im required to consider and are relevant to this case are set out in DISP 2 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The specific rule that is relevant here is 
DISP 2.8.2. It says; 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication 
Im satisfied that Lex issued their final response to Mr W on 7 May 2021. And Mr W doesnt 
dispute that he received it. In this letter, Lex responded to Mr Ws complaints about their lack 
of response to his collection requests made since May 2020, their failure to contact him 
when the lease ended in March 2020, and the increase in monthly rental fees. They upheld 
parts of his complaint and offered him £200 for the inconvenience caused.
The letter informed Mr W of his right to bring a complaint to this service and the requirement 
for the complaint to be brought within six months of the response. Lex also state in the letter 
that they will not consent to this service looking into the complaint if he didnt bring it on time.
Mr W said he didnt bring the complaint to this service as he was trying to resolve the 
complaint directly with Lex. He said this was why he hadnt paid attention to deadlines, and 
what he described as small print.
Because he brought his complaint to this service on 7 May 2022, 12 months later, its been 
brought too late. 
Our rules say that I can set that time limit aside if Im satisfied that the failure to comply with 
it was as a result of exceptional circumstances. The rules give an example of exceptional 
circumstances as where a consumer might have been incapacitated. Mr W says Covid 
caused delays for all parties including him, and he also attempted to resolve the complaint 
himself. 
I accept that was what he was doing. But it didnt prevent him from raising the complaint with 
our service within the six month period. And he hasnt told us about any other circumstances 
which wouldve effectively prevented him from bringing the complaint in time. So, I find no 
reason to set the time limit aside.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to him, but I cannot consider this part of 
his complaint against Lex.
I can look at the issues he raised with Lex in September 2021, to which they issued a final 
response letter on 10 November 2021. Mr W raised this complaint with this service on 7 May 
2022.
Not implementing the resolution from the first complaint
In their final response letter of 7 May 2021, Lex offered Mr W £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. They said Please let us know whether you would like this to be paid 
as a personal cheque or deducted from your outstanding balance.Mr W said he felt this was effectively blackmail by Lex, forcing him to accept the offer. I 
disagree. I think this was a reasonable request, giving him the option of receiving the whole 
amount, or having it offset against monies owed. Ive seen complaints where firms have 
implemented one of these options without giving the customer a choice. 
Lex also said that they were happy to remove credit markers after 1 May 2020 if he 
confirmed the relevant dates. I accept that they couldnt do that until hed confirmed how he 
wanted the compensation paid, as that may have impacted the markers if hed chosen to 
use the offer to offset. So I think this was a fair and reasonable offer. Mr W said he had 
communicated with Lex after that date  but in his own words he said that he didnt accept 
their offer of compensation. So I cant say that theyve unreasonably failed to implement the 
previous resolution.
If he hasnt already done so, Mr W should inform Lex how he wants the £200 to be paid.
Invoice for damage to the car and excess mileage
Mr W complains that he didnt receive the invoice or the evidence of the damage until eleven 
months after the vehicle was collected. Lex said they sent an invoice explaining the charges 
to Mr W on 3 May 2021, a few days after the car was collected. He said he didnt receive it. 
But he did say it was included on a statement letter.
Ive seen the report. It is dated 30 April 2021, and shows the mileage as 49,568 at the time 
of inspection. I have no reason to believe the invoice wasnt sent to Mr W. But even, if it 
wasnt, there was evidence of him being told the amount at the time in the letter he did 
receive. Having reviewed the report and photographic evidence, Im satisfied that the 
charges are justified. They show damage which is greater than the allowance for wear and 
tear in the BVRLA guidance.
These are the scratches to the bonnet, the rear bumper, the left hand rear door, and the right 
sider front wing. The damage is clear. So Im satisfied that its reasonable that Lex charge Mr 
W for the damages.
Mr W said that the car had been on his drive for nearly a year waiting for Lex to collect it. He 
said that Lex cant show that the damage was done before May 2020, when the contract 
ended, so he shouldnt have to pay for it. I disagree  the car was in his possession, he said 
he didnt drive it (and that is supported by the evidence), so its more likely than not that the 
damage was done during the term of the agreement. 
Im also satisfied its reasonable hes charged for the excess miles. Im satisfied that a 
photograph of the odometer is reliable evidence. There is no evidence to suggest it was 
fabricated or taken at a time other than the collection point. 
The agreement he entered into allowed for an extra mileage charge if the car had travelled 
in excess of the agreed contracted amount. I acknowledge that Mr W is unhappy that he 
wasnt sent an invoice in the four week period set out in the BVRLA guidance.
But Im satisfied that the charge is due, that mileage has been exceeded, and therefore its 
reasonable that Mr W pay for the excess miles as he agreed to when he entered into the 
agreement. 
InvoicesLex have confirmed that they will backdate invoices to 1 May 2020  the date the contract 
ended. Theyve also said that they would remove credit file markers from this date. I think 
this is fair and they should go ahead and amend Mr Ws credit file as they have suggested. 
Compensation
Mr W has asked that Lex pay him for storing the car on his driveway. He said this saved 
them storage costs. I accept this may have been inconvenient, but Im not making an award 
for this. Lex, like others, had issues with collection and storage due to the restrictions put in 
place during the Covid pandemic. So I think it was reasonable to expect that the collection 
was delayed by a significant time. 
He also asked for expenses he incurred whilst having the car on his driveway. These were: 
Insurance premiums costing £539.20, a new car battery costing £76.19, a service costing 
£498, and the cost of the MOT £39.99.
I agree with our investigators approach. Lex has agreed to support these costs. And they 
have also agreed to write off an outstanding balance of £2,016, that would otherwise have 
been payable. So it would be unreasonable to ask them to pay Mr W a further £1,153 on top 
of this as it would unfairly compensate Mr W for more than the losses he has incurred.
This matter has been protracted, and I understand Mr Ws frustration. But I think Lex have 
been reasonable in writing off the balance, backdating the invoices, and correcting his credit 
file. So I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman