DRN-2746589
The complaint
Ms Is complaint relates to enquiries she made about applying for a new mortgage with 
Santander UK Plc. She has told us that she was initially told the County Court Judgements 
(CCJs) and defaults on her credit file wouldnt affect any application she made for a new 
mortgage. She was then told it would mean Santander wouldnt give her a new mortgage. 
What happened
Ms I had an existing mortgage with Santander. In September 2020 she telephoned 
Santander to ask about a new mortgage to buy a new property. She said shed been told in 
a branch around 18 months earlier that Santander wouldnt give her a new mortgage, but 
shed decided to ask again. It was confirmed that Ms I had received an offer on her property 
and found another that she wanted to buy. To do so she needed to increase her borrowing 
significantly and ideally wanted to port her existing interest rate product to a new mortgage. 
Some details of Ms Is needs and circumstances were taken. She confirmed that she had 
two CCJs and the amounts of them. The member of staff at Santander confirmed that this 
would mean they would have to go through the decline-appeal process. Whether the appeal 
would be successful would depend on the amount of the CCJs and how they had come 
about. When Ms I was in the process of being transferred to a mortgage adviser to move 
forward and attempt to make an application, she was unfortunately cut off. 
When Ms I called back a few minutes later and went through details of her circumstances 
again, she was told she wouldnt be granted a mortgage. This was because she had a CCJ 
of more than a certain amount and wanted to borrow more money than the amount of her 
existing mortgage. 
Ms I wasnt happy about having been given incorrect information when she first called and 
she complained.
Santander responded to Ms Is complaint. It apologised for the problem that meant shed 
been cut off when shed first called to ask about applying for a new mortgage. Also, that she 
hadnt been given the right information when shed initially called. It offered her £50 
compensation for the inconvenience and confusion that had been caused.
Ms I wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and asked this service to look into her 
complaint. She told us that as she had an interest rate product attached to her existing 
mortgage, if Santander wouldnt give her a new mortgage when she moved, she would have 
to pay an early repayment charge. She also said that Santander hadnt paid her the £50 
compensation it said it had.
One of our investigators considered Ms Is complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He considered the sum already offered was enough to compensate her for the initial 
mistake made by Santander. 
Ms I didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She highlighted that an online document 
titled Are you eligible for a Santander mortgage didnt mention CCJs or defaults, and that 
they would make someone ineligible. She said she didnt think she had been treated fairly as 
she hadnt even been allowed to apply for a mortgage. She also provided copies of account 
statements for a current account with Santander she holds, to evidence the £50 payment 
wasnt made. She asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman if the investigator 
was unable to change his conclusions. 
The investigator explained to Ms I that a lender wouldnt put its entire lending criteria on its 
website as such information is commercially sensitive. However, he was satisfied that even if 
Ms I had been allowed to proceed to application stage, the application would have been 
declined because of the existence of, and the amount owed, on one of the CCJs she had 
registered against her. He confirmed that he didnt think Santander did anything wrong in 
taking the position it had, based on the details of the CCJs. In addition, it was confirmed that 
as Ms I had said she didnt want to accept the £50 compensation, it hadnt been paid. 
However, Santander was still willing to pay it if Ms I decided to accept the offer.
Ms I confirmed she wanted her complaint passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends. As long as 
the lender applies its criteria fairly to all consumers in similar circumstances, it is not 
something we would interfere with. The fact that Santander is only willing to lend to a 
consumer with a CCJ in certain circumstances reflects the amount and type of risk it is 
willing to take. Santander is allowed by the regulator to make such decisions and I cant fault 
it for having done so.
I note that Ms I has raised concerns that it wasnt detailed on Santanders website that 
having a CCJ would make her ineligible. Lending criteria are commercially sensitive and so 
lenders dont publish them in full and we wouldnt expect them to. In addition, I would 
comment that it doesnt appear that it is as simple as the existence of a CCJ making a 
consumer ineligible for a mortgage with Santander, rather it is dependent on its existence, 
amount and whether the borrower wants additional funds. So it is more complex than 
Santander simply not lending to consumers who have CCJs, which means it wouldnt have 
been appropriate for Santander to say it didnt lend to customers with a CCJ, as Ms I has 
suggested it should have.
Santander has acknowledged the service Ms I received in the first phone call was not what it 
should have been. However, I note she wasnt told she would definitely be able to take a 
new mortgage with Santander  rather that she could appear the initial rejection of her 
application. This may have raised Ms Is hopes briefly, but Santander has offered 
appropriate compensation for the disappointment she was caused. I dont consider it needs 
to do anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms I to accept or reject my decision before 
12 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman