DRN-3833856
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc havent reimbursed her for payments made from her 
account which she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 23 June 2022 two transactions totalling £916.13 were made using Ms Bs debit card to a 
company that sells cryptocurrency. Ms B reported it to Lloyds on 23 and 28 June 2022 
saying she didnt authorise these transactions and asked for the funds to be returned.
Lloyds declined the claim. They said the disputed payments were made using the same 
device Ms B uses to log into her internet banking and that she had advised nobody had 
access to her card or phone. 
When Lloyds discussed it further with Ms B, she explained her friend had made the 
payments without her knowledge or authorisation. She thought her friend had been a victim 
of a scam and she would be updating the police about this. Lloyds explained they would 
need the police report in order to reassess the claim.
Ms B referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator felt that, based on the evidence 
provided, Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably when refusing to reimburse Ms B as it was likely 
she had authorised the payments. As the complaint wasnt resolved it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on 
all of it. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service.
As a general rule, Lloyds can hold Ms B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. The 
disputed transactions on Ms Bs account were made via her debit card and authorised 
through her banking app.
Lloyds have provided evidence to show the payments were made from the same mobile 
phone device used to log into Ms Bs account to carry out genuine transactions. 
The payments in dispute were online transactions and were authenticated using her mobile 
banking app using APSSIGN.
The online banking records show that the account was accessed around the same time as 
the disputed transactions, and the IP address logged was the same as the one used when 
Ms B accessed the account whilst on the phone with the adviser. So, Im satisfied that the IP 
address logged at the time of the transactions was Ms Bs usual IP address.
Ms B has said her friend was using her phone in the morning of the 23 June 2022 to make 
calls. She had the phone for around 45 minutes and had access to her card as it was in the 
back of the phone holder. She explained her friend has since admitted making the 
transactions but was unable to pay her back.
Whilst I understand that her friend may have been able to authorise the payments if she had 
the relevant information to access Ms Bs online banking app, the timeline of events Ms B 
provided doesnt account for this. I also find it unlikely her friend would have all the 
information required to bypass security to authorise the payments via the mobile banking 
app with just the card available, especially as there were no incorrect attempts to access the 
app.
Ms B said her friend had her phone from 10.00 am and returned it about 45 minutes later 
after shed made her calls. But the first transaction wasnt made until around 11.20/11.25. 
Even if Ms B had her timings wrong the second transaction was made around 17.59 and 
was also authorised via the mobile banking app, at which point Ms B says the phone was 
back in her possession and wouldve been for several hours.
Ive listened to the calls Ms B made to Lloyds to dispute the transactions. The first call was 
on 23 June 2022 when the payment was showing as pending. Ms B confirmed she was still 
in possession of her card and that no one had access to her phone or online banking, it had 
been in her possession all day. The agent confirmed the payments were approved by 
logging into the app so if no one had the phone he didnt know how someone had made 
payments through her device. 
Ms B didnt mention her friend at this point and confirmed she hadnt authorised anyone else 
to use her card and she hadnt given her card to anyone recently. She also said she hadnt 
received any texts or emails from anyone she didnt recognise, and she hadnt used any new 
websites.
What she told Lloyds at the outset doesnt match what shes told our service. And I note in 
an additional call to Lloyds on 28 June 2022 she said she had received emails and calls and 
she thought her emails had been hacked.
Ms Bs testimony has changed over time but even if I accepted that it was Ms Bs friend, the 
evidence doesnt account for the second payment when Ms B says she had the phone and 
card in her possession. The evidence also shows that Ms Bs online banking had been 
accessed throughout the day and after the last payment, all using the same IP address as 
Ms B normally uses.
Ive also considered whether Ms B may have been a victim of a scam and was tricked into 
making these transactions, but shes adamant that she didnt make these payments or 
recognise them. 
Im aware Ms B has some health concerns and I understand this has caused her distress but 
on balance, based on the evidence, I think it more likely than not that Ms B authorised or 
consented to the disputed transactions so I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund them
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman