DRN-3631832
The complaint
The estate of Mr A complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a buildings
insurance claim.
Mrs K is one of the executors of the estate of Mr A and has been representing it in this
complaint. So, I will refer to her in my decision.
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full
again here. But in summary Mrs K said she noticed cracking inside Mr As
property around August 2020.
Mrs K appointed a surveyor and provided their report to Aviva. Mrs K sold the property while
Aviva were assessing the claim. Aviva concluded the cracks in the property appeared to be
due to historic movement and a lack of maintenance, so it declined the claim.
Mrs K was unhappy with this and complained to Aviva about its handling of the claim and the
decision to decline the claim. She wasnt satisfied with its response, so she brought the
complaint to our service.
Mrs K said she was promised a cash settlement by Aviva, who then reversed its decision
and declined the claim. She said she had to sell the property at a reduced price due to the
subsidence damage as a result.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Aviva should have carried
out further investigations to determine whether any further movement had occurred before
the claim was declined. And so, she didnt think it had handled the claim fairly. 
She recommended Aviva pay Mrs K £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
However, our investigator wasnt persuaded the claim should have been met in full by Aviva.
And as Mrs K had sold the property, it wouldnt be possible for Aviva to carry out further
investigations or monitoring.
Our investigator said Aviva had told Mrs K she shouldnt proceed to selling the property until
a decision had been made on the claim. So, she didnt recommend Aviva make a payment
for any reduction in value of the property at the time of its sale. .
Aviva accepted our investigators opinion.
Mrs K disagreed and reiterated her complaint points. She said monitoring should have been
carried out by Aviva, and had ongoing movement been found, the resulting repairs would
have significantly improved the market value of the property.
She said Aviva deliberately looked to decline the claim as it knew she was considering
selling the property and it should have carried out a period of monitoring. She said she sold
the property on the basis Aviva had informed her it was happy for her to do so.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my reasons for my intended decision are as follows:
Aviva said the cracks in the property are historic. Mrs Ks surveyor also agreed that
there was evidence of historic cracking, however they also referenced more recent
cracking. They also said they couldnt determine whether the movement was
ongoing.
Aviva concluded there had been little indication of any movement from its
inspections, but its also said separately its impossible to say exactly when the
damage started or ended.
In the circumstances, I think Aviva could have carried out further investigations. In
this situation our service would usually recommend an insurer proceed with a period
of monitoring to establish if further movement had occurred  and its cause.
However, as the property has now been sold, and no longer belongs to the estate of
Mr A, this is not something I can recommend. I appreciate Mrs Ks comments about
what might have happened if monitoring was carried out, and that resulting repairs 
could have improved the propertys market value. But I cant consider what might 
have happened; I must base my decision on what actually happened.
Ive not seen anything that persuades me that Aviva indicated to Mrs K that a claim
had been accepted  or that a cash settlement was offered to her. Only that it was
discussed this was a possible option that could be pursued in the event the claim
was accepted. So, ultimately it was the estate of Mr As choice to sell the property at
the price they did at that time, before a decision had been made on the claim.
Our investigator has recommended Aviva pay Mrs K £500 compensation. I
appreciate what Mrs Ks said about her experience in the claims process, However,
as Mrs K is an executor of the estate of Mr A, I dont have the power to compensate
her personally for any inconvenience shes suffered.
So for these reasons, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva have no further comments regarding my provisional findings.
Mrs K didnt agree with my provisional findings and provided further comments for me to 
consider. She reiterated that Aviva had told her selling the property would not be an issue  and would not impact her claim or a cash settlement. She has provided an email from 
November 2020 she feels supports this.
Mrs K said the property had since been underpinned by the new owner and disagreed with 
my intention not to award her compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mrs K has said in her responses, but it doesnt change my 
decision  or my reasoning. 
Ive not seen or heard anything in Mrs Ks, or the estate of Mr As, interactions with Aviva 
that indicated to Mrs K that a claim had been accepted  or that a cash settlement was 
offered to her. Only that it was discussed this was a possible option that could be pursued in 
the event the claim was accepted. 
The email Mrs K references does mention Aviva would seek to offer a cash settlement, 
regardless of whether the property was under new ownership, but this doesnt say a claim 
had been accepted. So again, this is what would have happened had the claim been 
accepted  but it wasnt.
Whilst the new owner might have since taken a course of action on the property, Aviva do 
not have the opportunity to carry out further investigations to see if further movement had 
occurred. So this doesnt change what Ive set out in my provisional findings.
Ultimately it was the estate of Mr As choice to sell the property at the price they did at that 
time before a decision had been made on the claim.
As Ive said in my provisional findings, I appreciate what Mrs Ks said about her experience 
in the claims process. Our investigator recommended Aviva pay £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience Mrs K had been caused by its handling of the claim. 
However, the powers in which this service has been given to investigate and decide 
complaints, and in some circumstances, award compensation, do not include executors of 
estates.  An estate is a legal entity in its own right and Mrs K has brought the complaint as a 
representative of that entity. So, I dont have the power to compensate her personally for any 
inconvenience shes suffered as she, as her natural self, is not party to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the estate of Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman