DRN-3589970
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont delete an existing customer profile in 
his name which he believes his ex-wife has accessed and amended.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr P called into a Nationwide branch to enquire about opening a new 
account. Mr P didnt have any Nationwide accounts at that time, and so was surprised to 
learn that a customer profile already existed in his name. Mr P then learned that the address 
listed on his customer profile was that of his ex-wife. Mr P wasnt happy about this and felt 
that Nationwide had allowed his ex-wife to open and maintain a customer profile in his name 
without his knowledge or permission. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at the Mr Ps complaint. They explained that Mr Ps customer profile had 
been created in 2014, when he was added as an additional card holder to his then wifes 
credit card account. Nationwide also confirmed to Mr P that presently only an empty 
customer profile was open in his name, and not any active accounts.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, and remained unhappy that his ex-wife 
had seemingly been able to update the address on the profile to her address. So, he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the presence of Mr Ps ex-wifes address on his Nationwide customer profile, I can 
appreciate how Mr P might be concerned that his ex-wife had somehow accessed his 
customer profile without his knowledge or permission.
However, Nationwide have been able to confirm to my satisfaction that the change of 
address on the customer profile was initiated by them, and that it wasnt the case the Mr Ps 
ex-wife has somehow accessed Mr Ps customer profile and changed the address herself.
Nationwide have explained that the reason they updated the address on Mr Ps customer 
profile to Mr Ps ex-wifes address was because the only understanding they had of Mr P, 
given that he holds no accounts with them, was that hed been an additional card holder on 
his ex-wifes credit account. And so, when Mr Ps ex-wife updated her address with 
Nationwide, Nationwide themselves updated the address on Mr Ps customer profile also.
Given that Mr Ps Nationwide customer profile was at that time essentially an empty shell, 
with Mr P not having any open accounts or ongoing business relationship with Nationwide, 
this doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And while I understand that Mr P might be concerned 
that he will now be associated with his ex-wifes address  for instance, on his credit file  
such an association seems unlikely to me, given that the address on Mr Ps Nationwide 
customer profile has now been updated and no long lists his ex-wifes address, and given 
that during the period his ex-wifes address was listed on his customer profile, Mr P held no 
active accounts with Nationwide that would have been reported to his credit file.
Mr P has stated that he wants Nationwide to delete his existing customer profile entirely and 
open a new one. But Nationwide have confirmed that this would contravene their own data 
retention policy. 
It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to amend its processes or 
policies, although it is within our remit to instruct a business to undertake corrective action 
where an unfair outcome has occurred. But I dont feel that an unfair outcome has occurred 
here. This is because Im satisfied that Mr Ps ex-wife didnt access his Nationwide customer 
profile and also that Mr P hasnt been adversely impacted by Nationwide listing his ex-wifes 
address on his empty customer profile for the period that they did. 
Finally, in their correspondence with this service, Nationwide have confirmed that if Mr P 
does apply for a new Nationwide account online, a new customer number would be 
automatically be generated for him. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr P here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman