DRN-1222855
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S took out the PPI in 1993 at the same time as arranging his mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any of the actual paperwork relating to the sale, which is not 
surprising, especially as the mortgage itself was redeemed some time ago. It does however 
make it more difficult to decide this complaint. In reaching my decision I have considered the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened. Ive 
also taken into account how long ago the sale took place and how this may have affected Mr 
Ss recollection of events.
Mr S says he was told that taking out the PPI would help him secure the mortgage. Mr S is 
correct in thinking that he had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. Thats because his 
particular mortgage product had a reduced fixed rate that was only available if PPI was 
taken out with it (and the policy retained for at least the fixed rate period). Nationwide was 
entitled to set such conditions on its lending, as long as it explained things clearly to its 
customers.
From what weve seen of such mortgage sales, the special condition relating to the PPI 
would have been made clear. I havent seen anything in this case to persuade me that 
something different happened on this occasion. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S 
has said, but overall I consider that it is more likely than not that Mr S was given a choice 
about taking out the policy. I think its likely that Mr S decided to buy it so that he could 
benefit from the lower interest rate on the mortgage. If he really didnt want the PPI then he 
could have chosen a different mortgage product with a higher interest rate or looked 
elsewhere for his mortgage.
Mr S has said its true now that he could have gone elsewhere, especially now that you can 
search for the best deals on the internet. But even back in 1993 there were enough other 
high street lenders to provide choice over mortgages.Nationwide says it didnt advise Mr S to buy the policy, whereas Mr S says it was an advised 
sale. I dont really need to make a finding on this issue as it doesnt make a difference to my 
decision. If Nationwide did advise Mr S to buy the policy it would have needed to ensure that 
the PPI met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, the PPI 
was suitable for him.
Mr Ss employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
much longer than he would have received full pay for (as it could have paid out for up to 24 
months per claim). Mr S had some savings but having the PPI would have meant that he 
could retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time. A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr S 
had an interest in protecting his repayments.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it (even if 
only to get the lower interest rate), I dont think that further information would have caused 
him to change his mind. 
Mr S has said that he spoke to an advisor at Nationwide who stated that similar complaints 
had been upheld and that if hed had supporting paperwork it would have made a difference. 
Nationwide has told us it doesnt have a recording of this call. Regardless of this, Ive looked 
at this complaint afresh, based on the available evidence and our understanding of 
Nationwides sales processes at the time. On balance, for the reasons given above, I am not 
persuaded that the PPI policy was mis-sold.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman