DRN-3506378
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the actions taken by Prepaid Financial Services Ltd (PFS) as the 
beneficiary bank when she sent money to one of its customers as the result of a scam.
Mrs L is represented in this complaint by her husband. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
refer to relevant acts and comments as being Mrs Ls.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. 
In November 2019 Mrs L was tricked into transferring €1,553 from her bank account with A 
to a third-party account held with PFS. She believed she was making the payment towards a 
rental apartment. When Mrs L discovered that shed likely fallen victim to a scam she 
reported the matter to A, PFS and her local police. PFS also received notification of fraud 
from A. It responded to advise that appropriate action had been taken, but none of Mrs Ls 
funds remained. 
Mrs L asked PFS to share with her the beneficiary accountholders name and address so that 
she could forward these details onto her local police. She also believed PFS had not carried 
out adequate checks when opening the beneficiary account and asked that it compensate 
her for her financial loss.   
PFS didnt agree to providing a refund. It detailed the steps it had taken upon notification of 
fraud. It explained that before opening an account it verifies its customers identity in line with 
its regulatory obligations. It confirmed that acceptable identification documents (which it can 
provide the police upon their request) had been obtained, and adequate checks were carried 
out before the beneficiary account was opened. It advised that it is bound by privacy laws, 
which prohibit it from releasing or sharing any account information directly with Mrs L. 
Mrs L brought the matter to our service. She says due diligence for non regular banks such 
as PFS should be at the highest level as these seem to attract a higher number of shady 
characters. Shes unhappy that the burden of the financial loss incurred is unreasonably 
shifted in its entirety from the financial firm which facilitated the fraud (by providing an 
account to a fraudster) to the victim. She acknowledges that there is a responsibility on the 
payer to verify the transaction particularly where the payee is an unknown party, but feels 
strongly that financial firms such as PFS also have a role to play in preventing their accounts 
being used fraudulently. Mrs L believes a fair outcome in these circumstances would be for 
PFS to refund 50% of her total loss.
Our Investigator initially said our service couldnt consider Mrs Ls complaint as it fell outside 
our territorial jurisdiction. Mrs L disagreed and the complaint was passed to me. I didnt 
agree with the Investigators outcome, so I wrote to PFS. I explained that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service did have the power to consider this complaint as; Mrs L was 
an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6R (2B); and I was satisfied that the activity was 
carried out within our territorial jurisdiction. PFS agreed and the case was passed back to 
the Investigator for review. 
Our Investigator did not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She was satisfied PFS had carried out 
sufficient due diligence when it opened the beneficiary account; that it had not missed any 
opportunities to identify and prevent fraud; and had responded appropriately upon receipt of 
notification of fraud. Mrs L disagreed and requested further consideration of her complaint by 
an Ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say Im sorry to hear of whats happened, and I do understand why Mrs L 
having innocently fallen victim to a scam feels so strongly that PFS should take some 
responsibility  particularly as it opened, and allowed, the account which facilitated the scam 
to operate. And from her perspective, of course, I can see having made the payment in good 
faith why it would feel unfair that she bears the full loss. But I think its important I explain 
that an account later found to have been utilised to receive fraudulently obtained funds 
doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund nor does it conclusively mean that 
the beneficiary bank reasonably failed to prevent the loss or carry out sufficient checks at 
account opening. It would only be fair for me to direct PFS to refund Mrs L if Im satisfied it 
made a mistake which resulted in her loss.  
Id like to assure Mrs L Ive read and considered all her submissions  including the links to 
articles about online banking fraud. I note that part of her submissions focus on the lack of 
measures and systems in place to fight online fraud across the financial services sector  as 
a whole. I can appreciate the concern about whether rules and regulations which are 
currently in place are sufficient to tackle the rapidly advancing digital technologies. But 
ultimately that is a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and its 
not something I can comment on. My role here is to consider the individual circumstances of 
Mrs Ls complaint against PFS and decide whether I can fairly and reasonably ask it to 
refund any of her loss.
 
With that in mind I understand the crux of Mrs Ls complaint against PFS to be about the 
steps taken by PFS when verifying the identity of the beneficiary accountholder and opening 
the account into which Mrs L was tricked into sending her money.  
Mrs L argues that PFS did not take every precaution necessary and had it implemented 
critical recommendations presented by online security experts it wouldve likely prevented 
the fraud. Ive thought about what Mrs L has said, but at the time there was no mandatory 
requirement on PFS to implement any of the recommendations Mrs L believes it ought to 
have as part of its verification checks. Here, Im satisfied that PFS correctly followed its 
account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the beneficiary accountholders 
identity; and opened the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations. From what 
Ive seen there wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted PFS that 
the account it was opening would later be used to receive fraudulently obtained funds. So 
Im satisfied PFS didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mrs Ls loss when opening the 
beneficiary account.Ive also reviewed the activity on the beneficiary account both prior to and after Mrs Ls 
payment arriving in the account. There isnt anything that I think reasonably would have 
stood out as unusual or suspicious where I think PFS ought to have intervened. Mrs L has 
suggested the recent opening of the account couldve been an indicator of foul play. I can 
see why (with the benefit of hindsight) she would make this point. Whilst I do acknowledge 
that newly opened accounts do present a risk. Banks open new accounts regularly as part of 
its day to day business and this alone isnt a basis for it to suspect fraud and/or withhold 
money from its customers. Overall, I dont think there were any failings in this respect which 
could have prevented Mrs Ls loss. 
For completeness Ive also considered the steps PFS took once notified that Mrs Ls 
payment had been made as a result of a scam. Having done so, Im satisfied PFS promptly 
took the appropriate action, but unfortunately no funds remained which could be returned as 
Mrs Ls funds had already been spent. And finally, PFS is required to comply with privacy 
laws. If it does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal data (which 
includes disclosing that information to a third party) it would be in breach of those. So, I cant 
say that PFS has acted unreasonably when it informed Mrs L that it couldnt share with her 
information it holds about the beneficiary accountholder. But Ive seen evidence that it did 
co-operate with the police and has shared with them the information theyd requested. 
Overall, and despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Mrs L finds herself, it 
would only be fair for me to tell PFS to provide a refund if I think it failed in such a way that 
caused or contributed to her loss or hindered its recovery. And as I dont think it did, Im not 
going to tell PFS to do anything further to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman