DRN-2015425
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and their decision to 
decline her insurance claim for a lost ring.
What happened
On 11 February 2020, Mrs H contacted RSA to make a claim on her home insurance policy 
after she lost a ring bought for her by her late husband.
RSA instructed a third party, wholl Ill refer to as L, to validate Mrs Hs claim. From the 
description of the ring Mrs H provided, L valued the ring as worth up to £24,000. But they 
were unable to validate the claim as Mrs H was unable to provide any information to 
substantiate it. 
Mrs H explained the ring was bought for her by her late husband, so she had no receipt and 
no way of knowing where the ring was purchased. She was also unable to access her late 
husbands bank account in an attempt to trace the payment and the cost of the ring. Without 
this information, RSA offered Mrs H £300 to settle the claim. This was based on Ls value of 
a replica ring matching the description she provided. On this call, Mrs H asked RSA to 
confirm the maximum her policy allowed them to pay for a single item to which they 
confirmed £2,000. Mrs H rejected the £300 offer as she felt it was an insult, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs H was unhappy with RSAs valuation of the ring and their suggested settlement. While 
the complaint was ongoing, Mrs H returned to RSA explaining shes found a ring box with a 
tag attached, valuing the ring that was provided with it at £2,200. So, Mrs H thought this 
provided RSA with enough information to substantiate the value of the ring and increase 
their settlement offer.
But RSA didnt agree. They thought Mrs Hs initial description of the ring, including the size 
of the diamond, didnt match with the evidence shed now provided. And they were 
uncomfortable that Mrs H had first said she had no evidence available, only to then provide 
photographs of a box and price tag similar to maximum amount the policy paid out. Because 
of this, they decided to decline the claim in its entirety. Mrs H was left upset by this decision 
and complained about RSAs decision to decline the claim outright.
RSA responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly by asking 
for evidence to substantiate the claim and when this wasnt available, they thought the £300 
they offered was a fair one. They also thought theyd fairly declined the claim as the 
evidence Mrs H provided didnt support the initial description of the ring shed provided to L. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mrs H remained unhappy, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought RSA had done all 
they could to gather the information to substantiate the claim. And without anything further, 
he thought theyd acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy, when declining the claim. In 
particular, he explained he didnt think the photograph of the box and price tag substantiated 
the claim as there was no evidence to like that box to the ring Mrs H was claiming for. He 
acknowledge the sentimental value the ring held for Mrs H, but didnt think RSA needed to 
do anything further. 
Mrs H didnt agree with this. She explained she would accept RSA offering a sum of £600-
£900 to settle the claim as resolution to her complaint. As Mrs H didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. First, I want to recognise the upset Mrs H has experienced when losing the ring 
in question. Ive no doubt the ring held a great deal of sentimental value to Mrs H, as it was 
bought for her by her late husband. So, I can understand how upsetting this wouldve been. 
And I can understand how the declinature of her claim for the value of this ring wouldve 
added to this upset. But for me to agree RSA have done something wrong, Id need to be 
sure they declined the claim unfairly. And in this situation, I dont think they have.
When a customer claims for the loss of an item on a policy, it is their responsibility to prove 
both ownership and the items value. So, I think its reasonable for RSA to have expected 
Mrs H to provide evidence to show she owned the ring and how much it was purchased for.
But I do understand this was made difficult as the ring was purchased as a gift by her late 
husband. As it was purchased as a gift, I can understand why a receipt wasnt readily 
available. Even so, I think RSA suggested several potential ways for Mrs H to substantiate 
her claim. These included a photo of Mrs H wearing the ring, suggesting she access her late 
husbands bank accounts to trace a payment as well as asking for details of any jewellery 
stores they attended regularly. But Mrs H couldnt provide any of this information.
So, I think RSA attempted to settle the claim as best they could by following Ls guide price 
of an imitation ring similar to the description of the one she provided. But Mrs H was 
unhappy with the £300 offer.
After rejecting this offer, Mrs H explained shed found a ring box with a price tag attached 
that showed the ring inside it cost £2,200. So, she put this evidence to RSA and asked them 
to reconsider the amount they offer. But they didnt agree this evidence substantiated the 
claim. They explained there was no way to link this box and price tag to the ring. And I think 
this is a reasonable stance. Unless there was a photo of the ring in that specific box, I dont 
think a photo of a box is enough to prove ownership or value. 
RSA also decided to decline the claim in its entirety and withdraw the original £300 offer. 
Theyve explained this is because the description Mrs H provided of the ring differed to the 
evidence she provided to try and substantiate the claim. So, Ive considered whether this is 
fair. 
Ive seen the validation report compiled by L, which explained that from Mrs Hs description 
of the ring, including the size of the diamond, they valued the ring at £24,000. And Ive seen 
the price tag included with the bag Mrs H suggested came with the ring was for £2,200. 
While I have no doubts Mrs H was doing her best to source evidence to help substantiate 
her claim and was acting in good faith, I think this represents a substantial difference.
RSA put forward their first offer based on the information Mrs H provided to L, and Ls valuation from that description. I think the evidence Mrs H provided suggested that 
description was not entirely accurate due to the large difference in valuations. So, without 
evidence to substantiate the claim, and concerns about the original description Mrs H 
provided, I think RSAs decision to withdraw their offer and decline was fair and reasonable. 
Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything further.
I understand this wasnt the outcome Mrs H was looking for. And I appreciate the upset shes 
already experienced and the sentimental value the ring held. But I hope this decision 
explains why RSAs have acted fairly given the specific set of circumstances and brings 
some closure to Mrs H and this situation.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman