DRN-3879921
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to pay a £150 account switch incentive.
What happened
Early last year Mr L opened a new account with HSBC, switching from his previous bank. At 
the time, HSBC was offering an account switching incentive that said it would pay customers 
£150 if they met the relevant criteria. The criteria said that to receive the incentive, 
customers had to switch at least two automated payments (like standing orders or direct 
debits) from the original account. 
During the application process, HSBC obtained information about Mr Ls automated 
payments with his bank. The information received said Mr L had one standing order that was 
transferred to HSBC. But as only one automated payment was transferred as part of the 
switching process it meant Mr L didnt qualify for the £150 incentive advertised. 
Mr L complained to HSBC and explained he did have more than one standing order but 
thought it had failed to correctly complete the transfer process. HSBC sent Mr L a final 
response but didnt call him before it was issued. HSBCs response said it had only received 
details of one standing order from his previous bank which meant Mr L didnt qualify for the 
incentive payment. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ls complaint and asked him to provide some 
evidence to show he had more than one standing order in place when he switched accounts. 
We didnt receive the information requested from Mr L. The investigator thought HSBC had 
dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr L asked to appeal 
and said he needed more time to get evidence about his previous bank account. As Mr L 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information HSBC got from the original bank during Mr Ls account switch 
application. The systems evidence shows HSBC was only given details of one standing 
order during the switching process. The application was completed via the CASS account 
switching service and Im satisfied it was reasonable for HSBC to rely on the information it 
obtained. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im satisfied the evidence available doesnt show a 
mistake by HSBC during the account switching process or that he had more than one 
standing order. 
Our investigator asked Mr L to provide a bank statement or some other evidence to verify he 
had more than on standing order at the time of his account switch. The investigator extended 
the date for a response but Mr L hasnt supplied the requested information. Without evidence 
that shows HSBC made a mistake and that it failed to transfer all Mr Ls standing orders and 
direct debits Im unable to see it made a mistake when processing the account switch. And 
as only one standing order was transferred as part of the switching process, Im satisfied 
Mr L didnt meet the qualifying criteria for the incentive. 
Mr Ls told us hes unhappy with the way HSBC dealt with his complaint and that it failed to 
call him before issuing its response. But theres no requirement on a business to call before 
issuing a final response. And, as our investigator has said, complaint handling in its own 
right isnt a regulated activity and isnt something we can consider a complaint about in its 
own right. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L but as I havent found evidence that shows a mistake by 
HSBC and Im satisfied it dealt with his case fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman