DRN-3214883
The complaint
Mr B complains that loans given to him by Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday 
Loans were unaffordable for him. Hes complained using a claims management company 
(CMC) but for ease Ill refer to just Mr B.
What happened
Mr B applied for - and received - two loans from Everyday as follows:
Date Amount Term Repayment 
Loan 1 14 April 2015 £1,000 24 months £103.66
Loan 2 2 March 2017 £1,500 24 months £152.16
He says that if Everyday had carried out thorough enough checks it would have seen the 
loans were unaffordable and it ought to have refused to lend to him.
Everyday looked into his complaint. It felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, and its decision to lend on each occasion was fair.
Mr B didnt agree with Everyday, so referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She said she didnt think Everyday had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when Mr B applied for the loans. She felt the decisions to lend to him 
were unfair and asked Everyday to put matters right.
Everyday didnt agree with our investigator. It said (in summary):
It had used statistical information to calculate Mr Bs expenditure and had used a 
minimum figure of £500 in his case.
A £250 payday loan taken shortly before Loan 1 had been used to pay a one-off 
expense  a driving test  to avoid using overdraft [his] incorrectly. It said this 
indicated mature management of his account.
As there was no agreement, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Everyday needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr B irresponsibly. The checks were to satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay 
the loan sustainably. Its not about Everyday assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it 
had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Loan 1
At the time of his application for Loan 1, Mr B was 19 years old and lived at home with his 
parents. He was earning around £850 a month which Everyday confirmed by reviewing 
some of his bank statements. While I dont have a copy of Mr Bs credit file, I do have 
information that Everyday obtained from it. This shows he had no other credit commitments 
 just a current account which had no overdraft.
Everyday verified Mr Bs income by obtaining a payslip and some bank statements. It 
doesnt appear to have verified any of his expenditure in any detail. Instead it says it used a 
figure of 35% of his net monthly income to calculate approximate personal expenditure with 
a minimum of £500 a month.
Looking at Mr Bs bank statements, there is limited evidence of fixed expenditure; it doesnt 
seem he paid any rent, utility bills etc. His only regular outgoing appeared to be car 
insurance of around £50 per month. Given his age at the time and that he was living with 
parents, this is perhaps unsurprising. But the statements do show that he spent everything 
he received, and his savings account had gone from £350 in credit to zero over the course of 
the year. Again, this may not be surprising given his age and circumstances.
However, the bank statement also shows a payday loan of £250 just a few weeks prior to the 
application for Loan 1. Everyday says this was taken to pay for a driving test but, looking at 
the statements, I can see payments to Mr Bs mother for this purpose. I also note that driving 
tests cost in the region of £100 in 2015 (theory and practical) so it doesnt seem likely that 
Mr B would have needed £250 to pay for a driving test.
It seems clear to me that Mr B was a very young man with limited financial experience. He 
had no other credit showing on his credit file but had recently resorted to taking out a payday 
loan. Its not clear to me why someone with a clear credit file would resort to a payday loan 
and a loan with an annual percentage rate of 199.8% over two years as Loan 1 was. It 
doesnt appear to show what Everyday refer to as mature management of his finances. 
I think the circumstances and questions Ive outlined above ought to have prompted 
Everyday to question Mr B more closely about his financial affairs. Rather than doing so, it 
based its decision on his credit file and average expenditure. I dont think Everyday carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Bs application for Loan 1.  
It's not possible to say precisely what Everyday would have found had it carried out further 
checks. But I think it is evident from the information it had gathered, that Mr B was spending 
more than he was receiving and was willing to take on credit at a high cost to maintain his 
lifestyle. I dont think this demonstrates that the loan would have been sustainable over the 
two-year period. It follows that I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend in this instance. 
Loan 2
The application process appears to have followed a pattern similar to Loan 1. By now, Mr B 
was earning £1,140 per month and still living with parents. Everyday performed a similar 
calculation for Mr Bs expenditure and again, set aside £500 for his living expenses. 
By this time, Mr B had taken on several items of finance with balances approaching £13,000 at the time of the application. Approximately £8,800 of this was a hire purchase agreement 
for a car, with the remainder split across ten other agreements including payday loans, a 
credit card and mail order accounts. Total repayments to these agreements were £1,636  
around £500 more than Mr B earned monthly. 
Mr L was looking to borrow £1,500 to consolidate his payday loans. Everyday calculated 
repayment of his five payday loans would reduce his repayments to other creditors to £208 
per month. So I can see why it felt the new loan would be affordable to Mr B. 
Everyday agreed the loan and settled two of Mr Bs payday loans direct with the providers. 
These totalled £823 and had monthly repayments of approximately £205. The remainder of 
the loan (£677) was paid direct to Mr B.
So once the two loans Everyday settled were repaid, Mr Bs expenditure had reduced by 
only £205, so he still had ongoing credit commitments of £1,431  around £300 per month 
more than his income. He still had three payday loan balances totalling £1,200 (full 
repayment was due on each), and other credit commitments with balances of over £2,200. 
So the balance of Loan 2 which was sent to him was insufficient to repay the remaining 
payday loans or reduce his other commitments.
Had it repaid all Mr Bs payday loans it may be that Loan 2 would have helped Mr B to tidy 
up his finances. But based on the figures Everyday has provided in its submissions to this 
service and final response and described above, this loan was never affordable for him. 
It follows that I dont think Everyday carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
application. Had it done so, I think it would have concluded, as I have, that the loan was 
unaffordable and should have refused the application. I dont think it reached a fair decision 
when it agreed to lend to Mr B.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in the 
position he would be in now if he hadnt been given the loans. But Mr B was given the loans, 
used the money so its right he should repay what he borrowed. But I dont think he should 
pay interest or charges on any money that was incorrectly lent to him.
So, I think Everyday should:
Calculate the total amount Mr B received from Everyday and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr B having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr B to pay, Everyday 
should let Mr B know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, 
affordable payment plan with him. I remind Everyday of its obligation to treat 
customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding each loan. 
* If Everyday considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans should put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman