DRN-2421409
The complaint
Mr W complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited hasnt settled all his losses 
after a claim was made on a building insurance policy covering his flat. He also complains 
about the policy excess and about how the claim was handled.
What happened
Mr W is a leaseholder of a flat in a block. XL Catlin provide buildings insurance for the block 
and the management company (S) is the policyholder.
A claim was made on the policy following a leak, which had damaged Mr Ws main bedroom. 
XL Catlin appointed loss adjusters, who appointed a drying company and approved Mr Ws 
repair quote. The claim was registered in March 2018, and works were completed in 
October 2018.
In February 2019, Mr W complained about the following:
- S hadnt paid the policy excess, leaving him with a shortfall to cover.
- His claim for alternative accommodation costs hadnt been paid.
- His carpet hadnt been covered, despite it being glued down.
- The service provided, delays, and the impact on him.
In Mr Ws letter, he also noted he wished to make a further Subject Access Request (SAR), 
for the communications he was excluded from which passed between XL Catlin, its agents, 
the contractors, and S.
In XL Catlins response to Mr Ws complaint, it explained:
 
- It couldnt get involved in a dispute between Mr W and S, about the policy excess.
- It didnt consider Mr Ws property was uninhabitable during the repairs.
- The carpet was secured by gripper rods, so its a contents item.
- It was satisfied with the loss adjusters claim handling.
In April 2019, Mr W wrote to XL Catlin again to explain he disagreed with its position. Mr W 
also reiterated his request for copies of all communications between the parties involved in 
the claim, which he had been excluded from.
Mr W contacted our service in June 2019. He explained he hadnt received a response to the 
further letter he had sent to XL Catlin. One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, 
but she wasnt persuaded XL Catlin had done something wrong. Mr W disagreed, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr W has set out his points, and the history of the claim, in detail. Whilst Mr Ws submissions 
have been helpful, its not our role to comment on every point made. Its for me to determine 
the crux of a complaint and to address the issues I consider relevant to its outcome. I have 
carefully considered Mr Ws submissions, and where I havent directly commented on the 
points hes made, this isnt intended as a discourtesy; but rather, this reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Ill set out my findings under the following headings: alternative accommodation; policy 
excess; carpet; delays and service; and SAR. 
Before I do, I must make clear that theres a strained relationship between Mr W and S, but 
importantly, Im not considering the actions of S. Thats not something which falls within the 
remit of our service. So, I make no finding on whether the concerns raised by S during the 
claim were reasonable, or whether S has treated Mr W fairly. Im only considering the 
actions of XL Catlin. 
alternative accommodation
The policy terms explain alternative accommodation costs will be covered when the property 
is unhabitable. This service generally considers a property to be unhabitable if it presents a 
health and safety risk to the individuals who live there, or if its without essential facilities, 
such as a kitchen or bathroom.
Ive reviewed the photos and repair quotations provided by Mr W, and Im not persuaded his 
property was unhabitable. I accept that moving to the smaller bedroom and living among the 
items from the main bedroom then being stored throughout the property, would have been 
inconvenient. However, in my view, such inconvenience or disturbance doesnt mean the 
property couldnt reasonably have been lived in. I appreciate Mr W doesnt consider such 
expectations to be reasonable, but Im afraid I disagree. Unfortunately, insurance claims 
usually involve inconvenience of this nature.
Mr W points towards correspondence during the claim in which he advised the loss adjusters 
he was living elsewhere due to the condition of his property, and he says at no point was he 
informed those costs wouldnt be covered. I have reviewed the letters Mr W has provided. In 
April 2018, he said he was unable to live in his flat; in May 2018, he explained he had opted 
to stay elsewhere; and in July and August 2018, he said he was still out of his flat. 
Whilst I accept Mr Ws letters notified the loss adjusters he wasnt staying in his property; the 
letters didnt explain he was incurring additional living costs or that he was claiming for such 
costs. Ive only seen that Mr W told the loss adjusters he wished to claim for these costs in 
September 2018, some four months after he had moved out.
I acknowledge the loss adjusters could have been more proactive here by picking up on the 
fact Mr W wasnt living at his property and by making it clear from the outset that such costs 
wouldnt be covered. However, overall, Im not persuaded I can reasonably decide XL Catlin 
should cover Mr Ws claimed alternative accommodation costs whilst living with his brother, 
when these costs werent authorised, and the property wasnt uninhabitable.  policy excess
Ive seen that S disputed the details of the claim with XL Catlin and it was unhappy the claim 
had been made. Ive also seen that S refused to pay the £1,000 policy excess when the 
initial interim payment was made to Mr Ws contractor. 
I appreciate Mr W understood an agreement had then been reached between XL Catlin and 
S, either for XL Catlin to settle his contractors invoice in full without deducting the excess, 
with S paying the excess to XL Catlin on completion of the claim; or for the excess to be 
deducted from the final payment to Mr Ws contractor, with S paying the £1,000 shortfall 
directly to the contractor. However, Ive seen that S told XL Catlin that it would pay the 
deducted excess directly to Mr W after the claim, once it had considered his itemised 
completion of works.
Once the repairs were complete, XL Catlin paid Mr Ws contractor. However, it deducted the 
excess leaving a £1,000 shortfall on the invoice. I can understand why Mr W is unhappy if S 
is now refusing to pay the £1,000. Understandably, Mr W felt he had to cover the difference 
himself. However, as set out in the policy terms, XL Catlin is entitled to deduct the excess 
from any claim payment, and Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for it to do so. Ill 
explain why.
Mr W makes the point that the policy terms say the excess is the insureds responsibility, i.e. 
the responsibility of S. Whilst I understand the point Mr W makes, that doesnt mean it was 
incorrect or unfair for XL Catlin to deduct the excess from the claim settlement, which as 
I say, the policy terms allow for. 
Ultimately, the excess is an uninsured loss. Therefore, in my view, I cant reasonably decide 
XL Catlin should have paid a further £1,000 to Mr Ws contractors or that its responsible for 
chasing S for the shortfall. In any event, thats not what was agreed between XL Catlin and 
S.
In conclusion, If Mr W considers S should cover the excess, either due to the policy wording 
or his lease agreement, thats a matter between him and S. Im satisfied its not XL Catlins 
responsibility to cover this uninsured loss, and the issue here is theres a dispute between 
Mr W and S.
carpet
I acknowledge that in the chronology Mr W provided, he explained he had never claimed for 
the bedroom carpet being replaced during the works. He also set this out in a letter to the 
loss adjusters during the claim. However, given what he said about the carpet in his 
complaint letter, I will address the item here.
This service generally takes the view that carpets are contents items. Ive not seen anything 
in either partys submissions or the policy terms which leads me to believe Mr Ws bedroom 
carpet should be treated as a buildings item. So, because the policy doesnt cover Mr Ws 
contents, Im satisfied XL Catlin fairly declined to cover his bedroom carpet.delays and service
Having been through the submissions, overall, Im persuaded the delays during this claim 
were largely due to the difficult position XL Catlin was in, in respect of S disputing certain 
aspects of the claim. I cant reasonably hold XL Catlin responsible for having to address 
those concerns, and Ive not seen anything that persuades me XL Catlin treated Mr W 
unfairly given the challenges it was working with.
I accept from Mr Ws chronology he and his contractor had trouble getting a response from 
the loss adjusters for the revised scope, and this took some time to resolve. I acknowledge 
this would have caused frustration. However, Mr Ws chronology also suggests this only 
delayed the final phase for about ten days, as the strip out and preparation works were 
continuing whilst the loss adjusters were being chased. In the context of how the claim 
progressed overall, Im not persuaded to award compensation here.
There were of course further delays and issues after the works were completed, due to the 
issue with the policy excess and Mr Ws claim for his alternative accommodation. But as 
explained, Im not persuaded I can reasonably hold XL Catlin responsible for these two 
matters.
Mr W says his letters werent responded to by the loss adjusters, and hes referenced the 
number of calls he made during the claim, to XL Catlins agents and his contractors. Ive 
reviewed Mr Ws letters, and these were largely offering the loss adjusters updates, as 
opposed to asking for information or a response. Equally, Mr W was in contact with the 
parties handling the claim, via telephone, during this time. Mr W also thanked the loss 
adjusters in October 2018 for all the considerations shown and courteous dealings 
throughout, and much of the call traffic was caused by the issues relating to S.
Whilst I dont doubt this claim has caused Mr W inconvenience, and the disagreements with 
S has caused him upset, overall, Im not persuaded XL Catlin handled the claim poorly or 
treated Mr W unfairly. Im more persuaded that the issues during the claim were due to S 
disputing certain aspects and then not covering the shortfall created by the policy excess; 
neither of which XL Catlin is responsible for, in my view.
Finally, I note Mr W has raised the issue of heating costs during the drying of his property, 
when detailing his unhappiness with the handling of the claim. I havent considered those 
costs here as they didnt form part of his complaint. Ive only seen his heating costs were 
raised recently, when responding to our investigators assessment. So, if Mr W believes 
such costs are outstanding, he needs to raise this with XL Catlin so it can respond.
SAR
In Mr Ws February 2019 complaint letter to XL Catlin, he made a further SAR (I understand 
that a SAR had already been responded to by the broker, who was initially dealing with the 
claim on XL Catlins behalf). His further SAR wasnt the subject of the complaint, but it 
follows that XL Catlin ought to have responded to it, in the appropriate manner.
In April 2019, shortly after XL Catlin had responded to Mr Ws complaint, he reiterated his 
SAR and expressed dissatisfaction it hadnt yet been responded to. Essentially, he was 
making a complaint about this matter. 
When Mr W contacted our service, and in response to our investigators assessment, he 
noted he was still unhappy his SAR hadnt been responded to.Mr Ws SAR complaint came after, and is separate to, the complaint he made to XL Catlin in 
February 2019. However, the matters are clearly linked, and it would have been logical in my 
view, for us to have addressed Mr Ws SAR complaint along with the other issues. As such, 
I apologise to Mr W that his SAR complaint hasnt yet been considered by us.
However, as Mr W will be aware, hes been waiting a long time for this service to decide his 
primary complaint, i.e. the complaint raised in February 2019. I dont consider it would now 
be in his or our interests to delay my decision on his primary complaint, whilst we await 
further submissions from XL Catlin about the SAR and then give those matters 
consideration.
Therefore, rather than delaying my decision on Mr Ws primary complaint, our investigator 
will set up another case, so she can consider Mr Ws secondary complaint about the SAR 
separately. She will write to both parties about this shortly.
To be clear, our investigator wont be revisiting the issues Ive considered under the previous 
headings. She will only be considering whether XL Catlin did something wrong in respect of 
Mr Ws SAR, and if so, the impact on him and what it should do to put matters right.
I remind XL Catlin that Mr W expressed dissatisfaction about his SAR not being responded 
to in April 2019, so its regulatory eight weeks to investigate the complaint has long expired. 
As such, XL Catlin will need to respond to our investigators requests for information 
relatively promptly.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman