DRN-3264822
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Rapid Bridging Limited, a broker specialising in bridging finance put 
undue pressure on her to draw down a bridging loan earlier than she required it. Mrs S 
would like Rapid to reimburse her for her financial losses and compensate her for her 
distress.
What happened
Mrs S had a project to buy some land, build a house and then sell her own property. She 
needed a bridging loan and Rapid arranged one for her with a lender I shall call Lender A. A 
Valuation was organised on behalf of Lender A and carried out in February 2020. Although 
Mrs S agreed to proceed with the loan from Lender A, that lender withdrew from the market. 
Rapid arranged another mortgage with a lender I shall call Lender B and that lender issued a 
conditional offer to Mrs S for £167,100 on 24 April 2020. Mrs S had until 8 May 2020 to 
accept it. Mrs S then had another two months within which to comply with the terms in order 
to draw down the loan. If she was able to comply with the terms, the lender would send Mrs 
S a letter confirming that the offer was binding on the lender and Mrs S had 14 days to draw 
down the loan.
After the issue of the offer Mrs S applied for an amended planning permission on the new 
property and on 14 May Mrs Ss solicitor asked Lender B whether they would be happy to 
put the loan on hold for one month. Lender B contacted the broker who contacted Mrs S who 
says that the broker told her that if she delayed completion that he would make sure that the 
loan would be withdrawn. Mrs S also says that the broker and the lender threatened to 
charge an upfront commitment fee of £1,000 each. Mrs S felt that the broker was threatening 
and intimidating. The broker says that the exchange was robust but that he was pointing out 
the downside of her request of a delay and the cost to her.
Mrs S says that she did not want to take the chance of losing the loan and instructed the 
solicitor to proceed with the loan without delay and the loan was drawn down. Mrs S 
complained on 27 May 2020 that she had to unnecessarily pay one months extra interest. 
But in fact, her purchase never completed. It seems that after a delay with the planning 
process that there was an issue with the title, and she didnt purchase the land. To repay the 
bridging loan she had to sell the house she lived in and move into temporary 
accommodation before moving to her present address.
Rapid didnt accept that it had done anything wrong and said it was acting in Mrs Ss best 
interests. But it offered to forego its fee for arranging the mortgage with Lender A. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive a great deal of sympathy with Mrs S in that she had a plan to buy land and build a house 
but ended up with neither land nor the house ,had to pay interest on a bridging loan that she 
didnt use and had to rent out temporary accommodation. Mrs S wants to recover her 
financial loss from Rapid because of feeling pressurised to drawdown the loan in a phone 
call on 14 May 2020.
Mrs S engaged Rapid to source bridging finance which Rapid did. This issue started when 
Mrs Ss solicitor asked Lender B about a delay of a month on drawing down the loan. Im not 
sure if Lender B actually answered the solicitor but Lender B told Rapid and the broker 
spoke directly to Mrs S.
This discussion formed the basis of this complaint.  I wasnt party to the discussion and both 
parties have different recollections as to what was discussed and the tone of that discussion. 
Ive considered carefully what both parties say was said. Mrs Ss complaint is that following 
the discussion she felt threatened and intimidated and that if she didnt proceed to take out 
the loan that she would lose the loan and the fees she expended to date. 
The brokers view was that the exchange was robust and, as set out in the final response 
letter, it says it told Mrs S:
if you wanted an extension into the following month you would need a new valuation , the 
case to be agreed with credit committee which would need a new credit search and 
commitment fees to be paid as previously indicated and yes (name of broker) had confirmed 
that his firm had carried out a lot of work, two applications, two offers and at no time did 
(name of broker) raise an invoice for the work carried out on obtaining the (Lender A ) 
Personal Finance Binding Offer. 
He also pointed out to you that the loan application had been underwritten and processed on 
the basis that you were ready to complete the purchase and had no indication that you 
wanted to go for amended planning at any time which can take anything from 6-12 weeks , 
in normal circumstances this could lead to credit pulling the loan offer as what you stated on 
the application could be seen as misleading to the actual reality of what you had planned, in 
light of this (name of broker ) confirmed that the staff at (name of proposed lender ) had 
been going into their office during lock down and yes risking their lives and their families to 
process your loan application and that you had to be mindful of this.
I noted that in her letter of complaint to Rapid of 27 May 2020, Mrs S says that the reason 
she wanted the four-week extension was that the house I am purchasing could not 
complete for another four weeks. There is no mention of a planning issue being the reason 
for the delay.  But in fact it seems that on the 14 May 2020 - the same date as the enquiry 
about the extension -  Mrs S applied for a variation of the planning permission already given 
on the site to allow changes to position , size and access  as stated on that application. It 
strikes me that such an application would require substantially longer than the four-week 
extension that Mrs S was looking and that inevitably would mean that if Mrs S wanted an 
extension until she got her planning permission, the mortgage offer would lapse, requiring a 
further application and costs and that is something that Mrs S wanted to avoid. My view is 
that after the discussion with the broker that Mrs S decided, given the time that it would take 
for the planning permission to go through and the possibility of the offer lapsing that it were 
better to drawdown the loan at that time when it was available. That was a rational 
calculation by Mrs S and not the result of pressure from Rapid. 
Mrs S says that under the terms of the mortgage offer she had sometime available to her in 
any case and should have been able to get an extension of a month at least. It would have been helpful if Lender B had responded to her solicitor to clarify that. The problem I see with 
this interpretation of the mortgage offer is that the offer required at clause 11.1.d a report 
and valuation from our valuers on the Property . Whereas Lender A had obtained a 
valuation that valuation was in February and not Lender Bs. The property market was in a 
degree of turmoil and the valuation was over three months old. One of the hazards of a 
delay that Rapid pointed to was the possibility of a further valuation being required by Lender 
B in a market in turmoil. I dont consider that it was unreasonable of Rapid to bring the 
possibility of a re-valuation to Mrs S attention. Its clear from the email from Lender B to 
Rapid that the lender was concerned about the delay and that may well have been related to 
the turmoil in the property market
In summary, although Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs S given her losses, I cant fairly 
hold Rapid responsible for them. It obtained the bridging loan for her that she wanted. Mrs S 
wanted to delay drawdown to obtain planning permission but that would have meant that the 
mortgage offer would have lapsed and it was fair of Rapid to point out the costs of that 
including Lender B requiring commitment fees. Rapid also pointed out the possibility of a 
further valuation for a shorter delay. I appreciate that this was a difficult choice for Mrs S, but 
I dont consider that Rapid, in bringing these matters to her attention, acted unreasonably. 
So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman