DRN-3043144
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to her complaint about mis-sold 
solar panels, following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In 2013, Mrs M was contacted by a company, which Ill refer to as P, that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting with Ps sales adviser, Mrs M agreed to 
enter into a contract with P for it to supply and install a solar panel system at her home. To 
fund this, Mrs M also agreed to enter into a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook.
Mrs M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). Through the CMC, 
Mrs M made a claim against Shawbrook under Section 75 of the CCA. The CMC said that P 
had told Mrs M that the solar panels would be self-funded and that the monthly loan 
repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But that hasnt 
happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments have been much higher than the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mrs M. Unhappy with this response, she referred her complaint 
to our service.
During the course of our investigation, Shawbrook accepted that it couldnt show that the 
panels werent mis-sold. And it made an offer to resolve the complaint. Shawbrook offered to 
calculate the expected savings and income Mrs M would likely receive over the term of the 
loan, based on some actual receipts up to September 2016 and estimated receipts for the 
balance of the term. It then said it would restructure the loan so that she didnt pay any more 
than this over the 15-year term of the loan. In effect, its offer was to ensure that the system 
should be cost neutral over the term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mrs M £200 to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused.
The CMC told us that Mrs Ms system isnt working as it should be. When providing FIT 
statements, it showed her system generated 3,345 kWh up to 7 September 2016. Mrs M has 
also provided a FIT meter reading dated 11 March 2021 of 4,709 kWh. 
Shawbrook has said that its calculations are based on the actual performance of Mrs Ms 
System up until September 2016. And after then its used the estimated generation amount 
of 1,446 kWh (assuming that the panels were working at full capacity) to calculate the 
performance from September 2016 to October 2028. Its also taken into account the 
expected degradation rate of the system and inflation. But it has agreed that Mrs Ms system 
appears to be underperforming and has offered to carry out an inspection with the hope of 
fixing it.
Our investigator considered the offer and felt that the general methodology Shawbrook used 
to calculate it was fair. But they didnt think it properly took into consideration all the factors 
relevant to this complaint. So, they recommended the following: 
Shawbrook needs to update its calculation to take account of the actual performance 
of Mrs Ms system up to 11 March 2021 where the meter reading was 4709 kWh;
after that date Shawbrook can use the estimated figure of 1,446 kWh on the basis 
that theyve agreed to carry out an inspection and repair the system, so it performs in 
line with the estimated performance; but 
if the system cant be repaired to generate along the lines of the estimate then 
Shawbrook will need to re-do the self-funding calculation using the actual 
performance of the system to predict the future performance.
Mrs M, through the CMC, accepted the investigators view, but Shawbrook didnt respond. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making its offer to settle this complaint, Shawbrook has agreed with Mrs M that the 
benefits of the solar panel system were more likely than not misrepresented to her. Mrs M 
also hasnt disagreed with the underlying assumptions and methodology that has been used 
to calculate the offer. But the CMC disputes whether its fair and reasonable for Shawbrook 
to use an estimation of the systems performance after September 2016, rather than how it 
actually performed, and will continue to perform if theres no fault found with it. 
In cases like this, where the parties have accepted liability, it falls to me to determine fair 
compensation. This isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and reasonable 
outcome, taking account of the particular circumstances of the case. 
Ive considered whether Mrs M should be able to rescind the contract with P and be 
refunded all payments she has made to Shawbrook, minus any financial benefits she may 
have received from the solar panel system, as the CMC originally requested. But I dont think 
that it would be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from her 
home. They are working, although currently not as well as had been predicted. 
So, I consider that fair compensation would be to put Mrs M in a position where the panels 
are self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mrs M to keep the panels, Im 
satisfied that she will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and receive FIT payments going 
forward (which should continue until after the term of the loan has finished).
Having carefully considered the methodology and underlying assumptions which have been 
submitted to this service, and shared with Mrs Ms representative, Im satisfied this is a 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation, subject to what I say below.
Shawbrooks offer is to make Mrs Ms system self-funding over the original 15-year term of 
the loan. This means that the system should be cost neutral. So, the income from the system 
should match the loan costs, and ensure that Mrs M isnt financially disadvantaged by any 
misrepresentations made by P. But Im not satisfied that Shawbrooks current offer fairly 
reflects the performance of Mrs Ms system.
Shawbrooks current offer is based on the systems performance until September 2016. And 
from this date it has used an estimated performance of 1,446 kWh to calculate its offer. Mrs M has provided a meter reading that evidences the system generating a further 1,364 kWh 
from September 2016 to March 2021. Thats a period of four and a half years. Meaning the 
system was only generating, on average, 303 kWh a year. This is considerably less than 
Shawbrook has estimated by about 1,100 kWh a year.
Taking the above into account, Shawbrooks current offer doesnt make Mrs Ms system cost 
neutral, as it has significantly over-estimated the performance of her system. So, Mrs M will 
still be financially disadvantaged, and I dont consider its current calculations to represent fair 
compensation.
To remedy this, I think that Shawbrook should use all the available FIT statements, electricity 
bills and meter readings to estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs M over the 
remaining term of the loan. Rather than using an estimation from September 2016. If the 
system is found to be faulty and repaired, it would then be fair for it to revert to using the 
estimated generation output.
Theres clearly a disparity between the systems performance and that which it was 
estimated to produce. So, there may well be an underlying fault with the system, particularly 
given that its performance between 2014 and 2016 of about 1000 kWh a year is significantly 
in excess of the 300 kWh its produced each year for the last four years. Shawbrook has 
agreed to arrange for the system to be inspected. And if a fault is found, then I consider that 
Shawbrook should arrange and pay for that to be repaired.
If the system can be repaired and performs in line with the original estimates, then I think it 
would be fair for Shawbrook to use, after the date of repair, the estimated figure of 1,446 
kWh for the future performance of Mrs Ms system. If the fault cannot be identified and 
repaired, Shawbrook should use the actual recorded and available FIT data / meter readings 
to reasonably estimate its future generation.
By making the panels self-funding, Mrs Ms monthly repayments should have been much 
lower, meaning that she wouldve previously been paying more than she should have each 
month, resulting in an overpayment. Given Mrs M would have been deprived of the use of 
that monthly overpayment, I would expect Shawbrook to add 8% simple interest a year on 
the overpaid amount from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Im satisfied that Shawbrooks offer to let Mrs M have the following selection of options for 
how she would like her overpayments to be used is fair, noting however that a) and b) will, in 
Mrs Ms case, likely result in her receiving a repayment after the balance of the loan is 
settled in full:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs M and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs M and she pays a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
In reviewing this complaint, Im also satisfied that there should have been sufficient 
information available at the time that Mrs M first made her claim to Shawbrook that means 
that it should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset. Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for this. And I consider that 
fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I require that Shawbrook Bank Limited:
a) allow Mrs M to keep the solar panels;
b) arrange for Mrs Ms solar system to be inspected and, if a fault is found, arrange and 
pay for any repair works necessary to bring it back to its original working capacity;
c) estimate the potential savings and income that Mrs M is likely to receive from the 
panels over the 15-year term of the loan and rework it, so she pays no more than 
this. Where possible, it should use Mrs Ms electricity bills, FIT statements and meter 
readings to do this. If the system is found to be faulty and can be repaired to produce 
the estimated performance, Shawbrook can use the generation figure of 1,446kWh a 
year, from the date of repair, to calculate the future performance of the system. If it 
cannot be fixed, it should use the available FIT data, electricity bills and meter 
readings to reasonably estimate its future performance;  
d) add 8% simple interest* a year to any overpayments made from the date each 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement;
e) allow Mrs M to decide how shed like her overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above; and
pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman