Page 1 of 2The complaint
Mr M complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his request under the direct debit 
guarantee. 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with HSBC. In June 2021 he contacted the bank to request a 
refund of some direct debit payments under the direct debit guarantee. He didnt hear 
anything so contacted HSBC again a couple of weeks later. HSBC accepted the request and 
a refund was issued.
However Mr M wasnt happy with how HSBC had handled his request. He said he was 
entitled to an immediate refund of the money taken and this didnt happen. He also said 
HSBC had forced him to agree to its terms and conditions before accepting the request 
which wasnt fair. He made a complaint to HSBC, and as this wasnt upheld, he brought the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator thought HSBC had caused a delay in dealing with Mr Ms request and 
recommended it pay him £50 compensation to make up for the inconvenience this caused 
him. However she didnt agree it hadnt followed the correct process when dealing with the 
request or that it had done anything wrong by asking Mr M to agree to its terms and 
conditions.
HSBC accepted our investigators opinion and agreed to pay Mr M the compensation. 
However Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as our investigator, Ive explained why.
I can see that Mr M first raised a request under the direct debit guarantee on 9 June 2021 
and Ive not seen that HSBC took any action to deal with this request at this time. It wasnt 
until Mr M called to chase the request on 23 June that it was dealt with. 
This caused Mr M the inconvenience of chasing the request and making further calls to 
HSBC. I agree with our investigator that £50 compensation is the right amount to make up 
for this inconvenience and in line with our approach to other cases.
While there was an initial delay, Im satisfied that once the request was accepted and 
processed it was dealt with in a reasonable amount of time. Mr M has pointed out the 
wording of the direct debit guarantee states as follows:
DRN-3206414Page 2 of 2If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your bank or 
building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your 
bank or building society.
While it states that customers would be entitled to a full and immediate refund, it also says 
that this is where an error has been made. Sometimes an error is obvious without the need 
for further investigation. However sometimes the bank may need to review the payments 
further before issuing the refund and this isnt unreasonable. 
HSBC explained in its call with Mr M from 9 June that refunds are sometimes made within 
one working day, but can take up to five where further investigation is required. As the 
request was processed on 23 June and a refund was received on 29 June, this is within five 
working days. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted in line with the direct debit guarantee and its 
own processes, which it explained to Mr M in advance.
Mr M has said that he feels he was forced to accept the terms and conditions in order to 
make the request. Ive listened to the calls between Mr M and HSBC. It explains that in order 
for the request to progress Mr M needed to listen to and accept its conditions. These 
included agreeing that the request was truthful and how it would be dealt with. It is usual and 
not unreasonable for a bank to explain its process before going ahead with a request, so that 
its customer has a full understanding of what will happen next. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to ask for Mr Ms agreement to this before proceeding. Mr M had the 
option to not agree to the terms and not proceed with the request, and this was explained. 
So I dont agree that HSBC has acted unreasonably here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M £50 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman