DRN-3756937
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund transactions made 
from his account that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr M says he fell victim to a scam in November 2021 as transactions had been made from 
his account that he didnt recognise. He believes the unauthorised payments came about as 
a result of him being scammed by a website impersonating FTX cryptocurrency (a legitimate 
crypto platform that has since become insolvent). He registered his details on the website 
and said he had to verify his bank account through Safecharge Limited (a legitimate 
payment processor) by entering some details. 
Mr M said he made a few deposits to his trading account for amounts such as £1,000, but 
later found that eight larger payments (such as £5,000 and £30,000 on) had left his account 
between 23 November 2021 and 22 December 2021, which he reported to HSBC and said 
he didnt authorise.
Mr M told HSBC he was concerned that someone had accessed his bank account using the 
details he entered as part of the verification process he followed. He also says he was 
vulnerable at the time and more susceptible to falling victim to a scam. 
HSBC refused to provide Mr M with a refund. It said the payments had been made via open 
banking and had been authorised, and that it couldnt have been authorised by anyone else 
as he said he hadnt shared any of his security credentials. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Mr Ms testimony had changed, 
as he originally disputed eight payments with the bank but then later said he recognised four 
of these. The investigator thought it was likely that Mr M had authorised all the transactions 
and didnt think HSBC ought to have intervened or prevented the payments he made. Mr M 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transactions complained about took place in November 2021, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the one made from Mr Ms account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transaction in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mr M made the 
transactions himself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this instance, the disputed transactions were made via open banking. After originally 
disputing eight payments, Mr M says that there are now only three transactions (for £5,000, 
£7,000 and £3,000) that were entirely unauthorised or were for different amounts that he 
thought he was authorising. But having considered the evidence, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr M authorised all the disputed payments. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he first attempted to report an unrecognised transaction for £5,000 on 
23 November 2021 via online chat. But he didnt pursue the matter any further and said he 
was going to check with his family before calling to report it as fraud. He then failed to follow 
up on this until over a month later, even when other transactions were being made from his 
account that he says he didnt authorise. 
During this time, Mr Ms device had been used to login to his online banking both during and 
after some of the other disputed payments had been made. So, it seems likely he would 
have seen the other payments being made from his account long before he reported them 
on 26 December 2021. 
I appreciate that a different device was used to make the payments. But HSBC has said that 
open banking payments would require security credentials to be used to allow the payment 
to be successfully authorised, and that Mr M had used this method of payment in the past. 
However, Mr M says that he didnt divulge any banking information or security details to 
anyone. He initially told HSBC that he hadnt generated any security codes or given this to 
any third party either, and neither had he received any emails or messages with links. But he 
has since said that he did enter a security code from the HSBC app when he was making 
smaller payments of £1,000 (which he thought he was making to his trading account in 
increments of £1,000 at a time). 
So, this leads me to believe that Mr M was likely aware that payments were being made 
from his account and that he had authorised them with his security credentials. Mr M has 
said himself that he struggles with his memory and had started taking a higher dose of 
medication at the time, so I accept its possible he may not recall making all the payments or 
remember the exact amounts he had authorised. He has also changed his testimony during 
his complaint, as he initially disputed eight payments as unauthorised when he called HSBC 
on 26 December 2021, but has later clarified that he does recognise at least four of these 
payments (including a £30,000 payment made on 29 November 2021).
So, in light of Mr Ms inconsistent testimony, and based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the disputed payments were more likely than not to have been authorised by Mr M himself. He said he did not share his login details with anyone, and the evidence 
provided by HSBC in the form of its online banking logs also does not suggest that anyone 
else was able to gain access to Mr Ms banking app to authorise the use of open banking. 
So, the only plausible conclusion is that either Mr M made the transactions himself, or gave 
his details to somebody else, thereby giving his consent and authority for payments to be 
made on his behalf. I appreciate that Mr M disputes this but given no one else had access to 
his login details, there is no other more plausible explanation for how the payments could 
have otherwise been made. 
On the basis that the payments were all authorised by Mr M, Ive gone on to consider 
whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr M from making them and stopped him 
falling victim to a scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
However, I would need to be satisfied that FTX was operating a scam when these payments 
were made in November 2021 in order to expect HSBC to have done anything further here. 
FTX was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange that has since become bankrupt, but theres 
no evidence to suggest it was operating a scam. Mr M says he thinks he was dealing with a 
clone of FTX. But its not clear why he thought this, and he hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence of interractions between him and an alleged scammer to show how the payments 
came to be made. So, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to demonstrate that Mr M 
was the victim of a scam here, meaning that HSBC wouldve had no duty to intervene.
Even if I were to accept that Mr M did lose his money to a scam and that the bank ought to 
have interveneed, I dont think any such intervention wouldve likely prevented him from 
making the payments in any event. Mr M was an experienced investor and had a history of 
making large payments to trading platforms and cryptocurrency websites. There were no 
warnings online that I can see about FTX at the time or of a potential clone website, so if 
HSBC had asked Mr M to carry out further research, I dont think he wouldve likely found 
anything significant that wouldve made him think he was being scammed. Therefore, I dont 
think HSBC could fairly be held liable in these circumstances, even if Mr M had been 
scammed.
Mr M says he was vulnerable at the time, as he has been diagnosed with several conditions 
and was taking medication. I appreciate that this wouldve likely been a difficult time for Mr 
M. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that his conditions meant he lacked capacity to 
understand what he was doing, or that he was incapable of running his financial affairs. 
Indeed, Mr M was still investing at the time and making large returns from his other 
investments. There were no other parties who had authority to act for him with regards to his 
bank account, and HSBC has said it has no record of having been made aware of any 
vulnerabilities in any event. So, I dont think there was any obligation on HSBC to have 
prevented the payments from being made due to any vulnerability concerns.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC did enough to seek to recover the funds after Mr M 
reported that he had been the victim of a scam. I can see that HSBC emailed both the 
domestic and international banks that received the funds, but I cant see that any response 
was received. As Mr M didnt dispute the payments until sometime after theyd been made, it 
seems unlikely that any funds wouldve remained in any event. And given HSBC reached out 
to the receiving banks when the fraud was reported, I dont think there was anything more it 
could have done in these circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman