DRN-3920511
The complaint
Ms G complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G had a motor insurance policy with Ageas.
In mid-May 2022 Ms G made a claim from Ageas. Her car had suffered damage in a collision 
which didnt involve another vehicle.
There was a series of instances where Ageas didnt return Ms Gs calls about her claim. 
Ultimately, her car was recovered to a repairer around 12 July. 
Ageas assessed the damage and decided the car was beyond economical repair and would 
be written-off. Ms G wasnt happy about the amount it offered for the car. Ageas increased 
its offer and Ms G accepted it. 
Ageas stored the written-off car (which is known as salvage) for about ten weeks because 
Ms G was deciding that she wanted to repair the car, but she didnt tell Ageas who was 
going to work on it. Ageas ultimately returned the salvage to her.
There were problems supplying Ms G with a hire car. Ms G wouldnt let her car be collected 
until she had a hire car. This isnt Ageas claims process and it couldnt do what Ms G asked. 
Ms G said the hire car supplier didnt arrive when it said it would. Then the hire car couldnt 
be given to her because Ms G didnt have a copy of her driving licence.
Ms G wanted the operator of the premises where shed had the collision to pay for the claim. 
Ageas said, unless Ms G had more evidence about the collision, it would remain as a fault 
accident. 
Ms G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about the 
delay supplying her with a hire car, Ageas claims service and that Ageas wouldnt repair the 
car.
Our investigator looked into it. He said he thought Ageas service had been poor as it hadnt 
returned Ms Gs calls. He said it should pay £75 compensation for this. But he thought 
Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably apart from this.
Ageas agreed with the view, but Ms G didnt. So her the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to look at the complaints raised by Ms G with Ageas. Looking at Ms Gs 
complaint, I can see that she has complained about the provision of a courtesy car during 
the claim, its service, and that Ageas wouldnt repair the car.
I cant consider other parts of her complaint until Ms G brings then to this service after Ageas 
has given her its final response. But having read the entire file, I think it might be useful if I 
included my thoughts on other aspects of Ms Gs complaint shes talked about in her 
communications with this service. 
Courtesy car
From the evidence I have, I can see there was a series of misunderstandings and 
miscommunications between Ageas and Ms G about the hire car. The largest of these 
seems to be that Ageas couldnt supply the hire car to Ms G because she didnt have a copy 
of her driving licence, or its number. 
The driving licence number is very important to confirm Ms Gs details and driving record. I 
can see that Ms G was struggling to obtain her driving licence number, and a new licence, 
from the licensing office, but I cant reasonably say thats Ageass fault and Im not going to 
ask it to do more.
Once her car was collected by Ageas, it was assessed as a write-off about a day later which 
would mean that Ms G wasnt entitled to a courtesy car any longer. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Ms G, but I cant say that Ageas has acted unreasonably.
Decisions on write-off and claim liability
Ageas has provided evidence that the value of the repairs on Ms Gs car was about 80-90% 
of the cars pre-accident value. I know Ms G doesnt agree with this, but I cant see any 
evidence from her to show the figure is incorrect. 
Its normal that insurers are able to write-off a car when repairs are more than about 60% 
of the cars pre-accident value. So, I think Ageas actions are fair and reasonable here.
I can see that Ms G remains unhappy with the amount she is due to get from Ageas, but I 
can see from the file that she agreed this final amount, and she continued to say she would 
have her car repaired herself. So I cant say Ageas has acted unfairly.
In later correspondence, Ms G continues to disagree with Ageas decision about liability for 
the collision. I can see from the file that shes complained to Ageas about this but it didnt 
seem to form part of her approach to this service, so Im only able to share my thoughts 
about this here.
She maintains that the site operator is liable for the damage caused. Ive not been provided 
with a copy of Ageas policy wording, but its normal for an insurer to be able to control the 
claim and decide where liability for a collision sits. Ageas did get some evidence from the 
site where the collision happened which was sufficient to reasonably confirm its assessment.
In Ms Gs case, because no other vehicle was involved, Id reasonably expect that Ageas 
would consider Ms G at fault for the damage caused. 
Ms G can disagree with Ageass decision, but she must provide evidence about this. Ive not 
seen any further evidence from her, so Id expect that if this matter reached this service 
through a new complaint, it wouldnt be upheld.
ServiceI can see that, early on in Ms Gs claim, Ageas promised Ms G calls back on a few 
occasions and then failed to carry these out. Ms G was having to chase up progress on her 
claim regularly. It seems to me that this is poor service from Ageas and it has caused Ms G 
some inconvenience and confusion. 
Ive thought about the amount of compensation this service would recommend in similar 
situations, and I think that £75 is fair and reasonable. Ageas has agreed with this, and has 
said it tried to pay this amount to Ms G by cheque.
Settling the claim
In later correspondence with Ms G, our investigator confirmed that Ms G hadnt received a 
cheque from Ageas paying the balance of her claim and the £75 compensation. Ageas said 
it sent the cheque in January, so because the cheque has apparently been lost, its now 
been cancelled. 
Given the issues with posting a cheque, it seems to me that the logical approach is for Ms G 
to provide her banking details to Ageas so it can pay her electronically for both the claim and 
the compensation.
Id ask Ms G to contact Ageas at her earliest opportunity to provide these details so Ageas 
can transfer the money to her without further delay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Ms G £75 for its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman