DRN-2427244
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. Mrs H is represented in this matter by her husband, Mr H, a 
named driver on her policy alongside her daughter.  
What happened
Mrs Hs daughter had a collision with another driver whilst driving Mrs Hs car. She wasnt 
covered by the policy at the time and Admiral told Mrs H that shed be responsible for her 
own and the other drivers repair costs. Three years later, Admiral sent Mrs H an invoice 
requesting payment of almost £15,000, including £3,000 for car hire. Mr H queried this and 
offered to settle the claim for up to £12,500, but Admiral rejected this offer. 
Mr H was unhappy that he hadnt heard anything in the meantime and that these costs may 
be inflated. Admiral agreed that it didnt have enough evidence to substantiate these costs 
and that it should have been in contact with Mrs H earlier. It said it would seek further 
evidence of the costs and offered Mrs H £200 compensation for its administration failings.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admirals 
offer for its administration failings was fair and reasonable. But he thought Mrs H had been 
expecting the bill since 2016. He thought the lengthy delay may make it more difficult to 
substantiate the costs of the claim. He thought Admiral should make Mrs H a reasonable 
offer to settle the claim.
Admiral replied that it agreed to accept Mr Hs earlier offer of £12,500 to settle the claim. But 
Mr H replied that he was no longer willing to pay this as Admiral hadnt carried out an 
investigation to establish the costs.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs H 
and to Admiral on 23 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I could see that it was now four years since the incident. I could understand that the H family 
would want this matter settled. I could also understand that it must have been a shock 
receiving a bill for nearly £15,000 by email, even though a bill was expected to arrive at 
some point.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral said it had accepted indemnity and dealt with the other drivers claim under its legal 
responsibilities because Miss H wasnt covered by the policy at the time she was driving. I 
noted that the investigator had established that this decision was made according to the 
policy terms and conditions. I couldnt see that this point was in dispute, so I didnt consider 
that further. 
And I could see that Admiral also made it clear to Mr H that it would seek to make its 
recovery of its outlay from the family. It explained that it was unlikely to have the cost of the 
claim for a few months. But there was no action on the file for three years until Admiral 
emailed Mrs H a request for payment. It seems that a file handler didnt take up responsibility 
for the claim in the interim. 
But that doesnt mean that its now unfair for Admiral to seek recovery of its outlay. I thought 
it had made it clear to Mr H that it would seek recovery and offer an affordable repayment 
plan. But I thought Mr H reasonably wanted evidence to support the outlay. 
Early on, Admiral told Mr H that it had supporting documents for the other drivers damage 
that it couldnt dispute. Mr H asked for a breakdown of the hire and repair costs. 
The hire costs were over £3,000. Admiral explained that there were 48 days hire costs to 
provide a like for like car. It said this lengthy hire was due to a delay in receiving ordered 
parts. We often see such delays, and so I couldnt say that this cost was unreasonable or 
that Admiral shouldnt seek its recovery. 
But Admiral, by its own admission in its response to Mr Hs complaint, hadnt established 
that this delay was necessary and justified. 
The repair costs were over £11,000. Admiral initially explained that this was costly due to 
damage to the wiring. It said this wouldnt be evident from the photograph Miss H had taken 
of the damaged car. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to pay for repairs. 
So I looked to see how Admiral has justified paying this cost. 
After Mr H complained, Admiral said its in-house engineer had reviewed the costs and it was 
unable to justify them. It said it would seek further evidence of the damage caused, the parts 
needed and the repairs costs from the other insurer. A year had passed, and Admiral hadnt 
done this. I didnt think that was fair or reasonable. 
From Admirals earlier comments about the wiring, I thought it must have had some 
evidence of the breakdown of repair costs. But, in its file, it said that the other insurers 
invoices had been paid without being checked by its in-house engineers. So I couldnt say 
that Admiral had justified what it paid the other insurer or what it was seeking to recover from 
Mrs H. 
After four years, I thought it would be difficult to now do this. Mr H has tried to negotiate a 
lower settlement with Admiral, but initially it rejected his highest offer of £12,500. Its now 
offered to accept this, subject to a time limit. But, given Mr Hs long wait, the lack of 
justification of the costs, and its failure to do as it said in its complaint response, I didnt think 
that was fair or reasonable.
Mr H initially offered Admiral £10,000 in settlement of the claim. He said this was the amount 
he could raise in a loan. Mr H accepted that he needs to reimburse Admiral for its outlay. 
Without any supporting evidence, I couldnt say that his offer wasnt fair or reasonable. And I 
couldnt see why Admiral should cause further delays. So I thought Admiral should accept 
this offer of £10,000 in full and final settlement of the claim, if Mrs H still wished to offer it. I 
also thought Admiral should honour its offer to agree an affordable repayment plan for this 
amount, if Mrs H so chose. But I also thought it was unfair and unreasonable for Admiral not to justify its costs after 
promising to do so. And so, if Mrs H preferred, I thought she could wait for Admiral to provide 
justification of its costs before she made any payment. 
Subject to any further representations by Mrs H or Admiral, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to accept £10,000 from Mrs H in full and final settlement of the claim or, if Mrs H preferred, to 
provide evidence to justify its costs before it pursued her any further.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral replied that it agreed to accept £10,000 in settlement of its outlay on the claim. Mr H 
replied that he and Mrs H agreed to pay £10,000 through an affordable repayment plan to be 
agreed with Admiral. As both sides are in agreement to settle the dispute, I no longer require 
Admiral to justify its outlay. 
  
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to accept £10,000 from Mrs H, in full and final 
settlement of the claim, to be paid through an affordable repayment plan, as its already 
agreed to do.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman