DRN-3200801
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes- 
Benz Finance) (MBF) was wrong to apply charges when his hire agreement (HA) ended.
What happened
Mr S took out this HA with MBF in September 2018 and agreed to hire a new car for 24 
months with an annual allowance of 10,000 miles. In 2020 he arranged to acquire another 
vehicle but delivery was delayed and MBF agreed to extend this HA for three months, until 2 
January 2021. When the extension ended the car was not returned and MBF instructed a 
third party agent (that Ill refer to as A) to take it back.
A collected the car on 21 January 2021 and it was inspected at a de-fleet centre by another 
party (that Ill call B) on 26 January 2021. On 29 January 2021 MBF sent Mr S an invoice for 
end of contract charges totalling over £6,000. These were made up of £2,195.41 for 9,629 
excess miles (at 19p a mile plus VAT), £2,921.16 for 143 additional days hire and £991.83 
for damage as follows:-
1. screen front scratched  greater than 10mm replace - £301.83
2. wheel - left hand front (LHF) rim damaged  over 50mm replace alloy wheel - £110
3. wheel - right hand front (RHF) rim damaged  over 50mm replace alloy wheel - £110
4. bumper front scratched over 50mm refinish - £210
5. door (RHF) dented  up to 15mm with paint damage  repair and re-finish - £260
Mr S didnt think that was fair. He feels he was forced to extend this HA and incur additional 
costs and accrue excess miles because the second car wasnt delivered on time. He says 
MBF works with the dealer that supplied the second car so MBF knew about the delay in 
delivery. And he only accepted the second car (despite the delay) because he was assured
that he wouldnt be out of pocket. Mr S also disputes there was damage present when the 
car was collected. He says A told him that no charges would be applied. He thinks any 
damage that is present must have occurred after the car left his possession.
MBF reviewed Mr Ss complaint and issued a final response letter (FRL) in April 2021. MBF 
said the previous invoice was wrong - as the amount payable for additional days hire hadnt 
taken account of the contract extension. MBF adjusted the sum due for hire to £446.95 but 
considered the remaining charges were applied properly and didnt think it should have to do 
anything else.
Mr S remained unhappy and he referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
explained that we cant look into what happened when Mr S took out the contract for his new 
vehicle in this complaint about end of contract charges under a separate HA. The 
investigator was satisfied that MBF was entitled to complete an inspection after the car was 
collected. Having reviewed the inspection report from B and industry guidance from the 
British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines along with MBFs own 
vehicle return standards (VRS), he thought the damage charged for was likely present on 
collection and chargeable.
He considered the charge for extra days hire was reasonable - under the terms of the HA  
but he thought there was a discrepancy in the excess mileage charges set out in the FRL. 
He didnt think the mileage allowed had taken account of the agreed extension which should 
increase pro rata - meaning the total charge for this element (including VAT) is £1,625.41.
He recommended MBF should reduce the charges for excess mileage accordingly but he 
didnt think he could reasonably require it to do more.
MBF accepted the investigators recommendations but Mr S disagreed and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr S made detailed submissions over several 
emails and Ive summarised these below (for ease of reference):-
he didnt agree to (or sign for) any damage, and the collection agent - who was there 
for more than an hour and carried out a full inspection  said no charges would be 
applied which amounts to a verbal agreement;
he disputes the damage found on the windscreen, in particular, he had a new 
windscreen fitted three months before collection that cost £650, and there was no 
chip present on collection or this would have been picked up by A meaning any 
damage found at Bs inspection some weeks later must have happened after 
collection;
the dealer supplying the new car told Mr S that any additional charges due to delayed 
delivery would be resolved and he wouldnt be left without a car - and MBF knew 
about this as it carried out searches relating to the new finance agreement on his 
credit file; and
hes disappointed that companies are allowed to act in this way, he cant afford to 
pay the charges and feels they shouldnt be applied in these circumstances  given 
the poor customer service and his long and loyal custom  he considers the charges 
should be reduced by half, at least.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted) 
to before I made my final decision so I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2021. 
Ive set out what I decided provisionally (and why) below and this forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S brings this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he acquired the 
car under a HA. And I should make it clear at the outset that the role of our service is to 
resolve disputes between financial businesses and their customers informally. Im not a 
regulator and its not within my remit to tell any financial business how to operate on a day to 
day basis. My job is to consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome - in all the circumstances of this 
particular complaint.
Mr S has told us about things that were said when he sourced a new car under a different 
finance agreement. As I understand it, MBF supplied the finance for that car as well so I can 
see why hes mentioned this here. But, as the investigator has explained, Im afraid this isnt 
something we are able to consider in this complaint about end of lease charges that MBF 
applied under a separate HA. Its open to Mr S to raise his concerns about what was said 
when he took out that other agreement with MBF and, if hes dissatisfied with the response, 
he may be able to bring another complaint to our service.
Im satisfied that Mr S agreed to maintain this car in good condition and return it in line with 
the relevant return standards when he took out the HA. I can see that the HA also allows 
MBF to apply additional charges for hire and excess miles if the hire period and mileage 
limits agreed are exceeded. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the charges MBF has 
applied are fair and reasonable. Before I do that however, I think I need to clarify what those 
charges are exactly. I say this because it came to light - after the investigator provided his 
view - that MBF issued a second FRL to Mr S on 7 May 2021 (before we began to 
investigate this complaint).
In this second FRL MBF said some of the end of lease charges should be reduced further 
(as set out below) and - acknowledging Mr S should have received better customer service  
MBF also offered to apply a credit of £250, reducing the total balance outstanding to
£2,589.19. Insofar as the charges in the second FRL differ from the first, MBF said:
- the excess miles charge was wrong (for the reasons the investigator set out in his 
view) and this should be reduced to £1,625.41;
- the RHF door could be repaired more cheaply than previously thought so the 
associated cost should be £35 (not £260) reducing the damage charges to £766.83;
- Mr S was undercharged by £57.61 for hire in the earlier invoice as hes liable to pay 
for another 19 days hire (at a cost of £22.13 a day plus VAT) totalling £504.56 - not
£446.95 - but MBF wouldnt to seek to recover the higher amount.
Excess mileage and hire charges
Im satisfied that MBF is entitled to charge for excess miles and additional days hire under 
the terms of the HA. I think the charges for excess miles have now been calculated correctly
- in line with the agreed extension. I consider MBFs offer to reduce the amount due for 
excess days hire seems reasonable. And Im not presently persuaded that I can fairly find 
MBF should waive or reduce the charges for excess miles or additional days hire any further.
damage charges
Ive seen two documents that contain information about the condition of this car on return  a 
document headed vehicle collection receipt compiled by A on collection and a vehicle 
condition report from B following an inspection at the de-fleet centre. Both documents 
include descriptions and various photographs of the car and the report from B also includes 
a video of the cars interior and exterior.
The paperwork from A is three pages long and says (on the front page) this is an Auction 
checklist NOT a full wear and tear assessment. The document contains a brief description 
which records that the vehicle was dirty but roadworthy and had one damaged wheel. The 
condition of the car was categorised as average which (according to the definitions at the end of the document) means (as far as its relevant) the car was mechanically sound and in 
a reasonable condition for its age and mileage but needed some work to bring it up to retail 
standard which may include re-painting. I think this suggests the car wasnt free from dents 
and scratches  which is the standard that it would have been required to meet the higher 
clean category (as defined in the document).
I have also considered the inspection report provided by B carefully, including photographs 
and a video of the cars exterior after it was cleaned. Its clear from the photographs A took 
that the exterior of the car was not clean on collection and I think this would have made it 
difficult - if not impossible - for the collection agent to see the damage that B reported at the 
de-fleet inspection. Im satisfied the damage charged for seems to be present in the images 
set out in Bs report. I appreciate Mr S feels this damage must have happened after the car 
was collected. But Im not persuaded thats likely  given the nature of the damage itself and 
the surrounding circumstances. On the current evidence, Im minded to find its more likely 
than not the various dents and scratches would have been present when the car was 
collected.
Satisfied the damage was probably present on return, Ive gone on to consider if this is 
properly chargeable under the VRS and BVRLA industry guidance. The VRS set out the 
standards that MBF expected this car to meet on return. Im satisfied Mr S was told about 
these in the HA - which I can see also explains that the car would be inspected at a de-fleet 
centre after collection. I think its likely Mr S would also have been reminded about the VRS 
in a pack that MBF would have sent him before the HA ended.
I consider the damage charged for here goes beyond fair wear and tear - according to the 
relevant standards. I note B also identified several other areas of damage - in addition to 
those set out above - such as dents and paint chips. But, this damage was assessed as 
falling within the relevant fair wear and tear standards and no related charges were applied - 
which seems fair. Ive seen nothing to show that the amount charged for damage found 
outside of fair wear and tear standards is excessive or unreasonable. And I am minded to 
find it is fair for MBF to apply these damage charges - in accordance with the terms of the 
HA.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that its wrong of MBF to apply the 
charges it has. I think MBFs offer to reduce the outstanding balance - as set out in the FRL 
dated 7 May 2021 - is fair overall. And, on the current evidence, I cant reasonably require 
MBF to do more than it has offered already. If Mr S is likely to have difficulty repaying the 
amount due in one go, Id expect MBF to arrange an appropriate repayment plan in order to 
give him time to do so.
The responses received from the parties
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence (that I hadnt seen 
before) by 15 December 2021 and explained that I would make my final decision after that 
based on the evidence available. 
MBF has accepted my provisional decision but Mr S remains unhappy. He says the original 
total (on an invoice from MBF dated 6 May 2021) was £2,839.19 (including vat). So, this 
should be reduced by about another £500 after our investigator picked up the excess 
mileage error in the view he provided. 
Mr S also feels that valid comments hes made have been ignored. He says hes not 
responsible for any windscreen damage (amongst the other damage referred to) and he 
would like a further discount to the excess mileage  which should never have been charged 
for. Mr S says he will pay the charges - just to see an end to the matter. And he could do so 
within seven days, if MBF agrees a fair and reasonable figure. But hed need more time if 
MBF insists on the original amount.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S is disappointed with my provisional conclusions. I want to assure him that 
I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us carefully. But, having done so, 
Im not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the investigator hadnt seen the second FRL that 
MBF issued (in May 2021) when he thought that MBF had made a mistake when it 
calculated excess mileage charges. The investigator worked out that that charges for excess 
mileage should be reduced to £1,625.41  because he thought MBF had failed to increase 
the mileage pro rata after the HA was extended. 
Im satisfied that MBF had already noticed this error and taken it into account when the 
second FRL was issued  and this sets out charges for excess mileage in the adjusted 
amount of £1,625.41. I cant fairly find MBF should reduce the excess mileage charges any 
further in this situation. And, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that it was wrong 
of MBF to apply the rest of the charges.
I remain of the view that the offer MBF made to reduce the outstanding balance to £2,589.19 
(as set out in the second FRL it sent in May 2021) is fair overall. And I cant reasonably 
require MBF to do more. If Mr S is likely to have difficulty repaying the charges in one go, Id 
expect MBF to arrange an appropriate repayment plan in order to give him time to do so.
I appreciate Mr S will probably feel let down by my final decision, as its not the outcome he 
hoped for. But, hes not obliged to accept what Ive said. In which case, it remains open to 
Mr S to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
made an offer to resolve Mr Ss complaint. I find this is fair in all of the circumstances. And, 
my decision is Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should reduce the outstanding 
balance due to £ 2,589.19 (as set out above).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman