DRN-3612384
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as W, complains that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) unfairly 
declined a storm damage claim made by the previous building owner, whom Ill refer to as E, 
under its Church Choice insurance policy. 
Mr L, who is a trustee of W, brings the complaint on Ws behalf with the help of E. For ease 
of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of Mr L and E as being those of W.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
here.
Briefly, E took out a Church Choice insurance policy with HDI which includes indemnity for 
storm damage. W was a leaseholder under the policy at the time however the ownership of 
the building has since been transferred to W. 
In November 2021, Ws premises suffered storm damage when a section of the stone 
tracery lancet situated within the front window became detached and fell to the ground. At 
the time, E reported the claim to HDI. 
HDI reviewed the claim. They found that there were storm conditions around the time of the 
damage to Ws premises. However, they concluded that the damage was as a result of 
general weathering and age-related wear and tear issues which were highlighted by the 
storm but not caused by it.  
HDI said its not likely the damage was caused by a one-off event such as storm but rather 
wear and tear issues over a period of time and therefore not covered under the terms of the 
policy. 
W maintained that there was exceptional weather conditions around the time of the damage 
due to storm Arwen. W said that it was unfair of HDI to reach their conclusion from reviewing 
one photograph which was taken from a distance and without a thorough investigation. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He concluded there was a storm 
with wind gusts of at least 77mph. He didnt think HDI had provided enough evidence to 
show that the damage was due to wear and tear other than their own comments that this 
was the case. The investigator therefore recommended that an expert surveyor should be 
appointed to investigate the cause of the damage and then following this HDI should 
reconsider Ws claim taking into account the findings of the expert. 
HDI didnt agree to our investigators findings. They said in their opinion they didnt believe 
the damage being claimed for was consistent with damage typically caused by storm. They 
also pointed out that there was no other damage to Ws premises such as the glass, 
decorative stonework or its roof, which were more susceptible to storm damage. HDI 
maintained that in their opinion, inclement weather can highlight pre-existing defects or 
inherent weaknesses caused by general age-related weathering or wear and tear. HDI 
therefore maintained that the proximate cause here was not the storm force winds.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and carefully considered everything W and HDI have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role here is 
to decide whether HDI have acted fairly in this case. 
The main part of Ws complaint is that HDI unfairly declined the claim, on the grounds that 
while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the main cause of 
the damage. Rather, it was due to weathering and age-related issues with the condition of 
the stone, which the high winds only highlighted. W doesnt agree, saying the damage was 
caused by high winds as a result of storm Arwen, which was exceptional whether conditions. 
Furthermore, it remains unhappy that in declining the claim, HDI reached their conclusion 
from one photograph and didnt appoint an expert surveyor to investigate the cause of the 
damage. 
The policy is question is a perils-based policy, so HDI is liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in its 
policy. Section 1a of the policy booklet says its covered for loss or damage caused by a 
storm. 
In considering whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing issue, there 
are three key issues we consider: 
 Were there storm conditions?
 Is the damage consistent with storm type damage? 
 Was the storm the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. 
Its not in dispute by either party that there was a storm. 
Ive also considered the Met Office report of the storm. They referred to the storm as Storm 
Arwen and issued a red weather warning for wind. Winds gusting widely at over 69mph were 
documented. The storm led to widespread reports of structural damage to buildings and 
uprooted trees. The northerly direction of the strongest winds was thought to be unusual and 
added to their destructive nature. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present 
around the date of the incident. 
In order to satisfy the remaining considerations from above, wed also expect to see that the 
damage is typical of storm and storm is likely to be the main cause of the damage. This part 
of the consideration is therefore key and its where W and HDI disagree. 
Having considered both views carefully, I dont think it is sufficient for HDI to fairly conclude 
that the damage occurred due to wear and tear or gradual deterioration. Ill explain why.
HDI provided their own comments on what they thought caused the damage. They said the 
tracery is built of stone, which is a long-lasting, solid and stable building material. However, it 
can be subject to pollutions and be affected by acidic solutions, such as rainwater. It also 
commented on the close proximity of the building to the sea, resulting in it being exposed to winds containing sea salt which could have a corrosive effect. 
Furthermore, HDI said its final response letter that if the stone tracery was in a good 
condition, it would be able to withstand any high winds and would not become detached. 
While I think its possible that general weathering and age-related wear and tear could have 
contributed to the damage caused, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that this is 
what happened in this case. I think its equally possible that due to the nature of the storm, 
the damage was caused by the storm alone. 
While HDI have provided their own comments on what they think has most likely happened, I 
dont think this is sufficient to conclude that the damage happened because of weathering 
and age-related wear and tear. 
From what I have seen, I agree with our investigator that in order to consider the claim fully, 
HDI should have appointed an expert, such as a surveyor, to carry out further investigation 
into the cause of the damage to decide if an exclusion applies. 
HDI said to our investigator that they gave W the opportunity to provide further evidence, but 
it didnt provide anything. I agree with our investigator that W has demonstrated that damage 
did occur and therefore the burden of proof now sits with HDI to demonstrate that an 
exclusion applies, which they have not done.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for HDI to appoint an expert, such 
as a surveyor, to undertake further investigation into how the damage occurred. HDI should 
then reconsider the claim using the findings of the experts report. Following this action, if W 
remains unhappy with HDIs consideration of the claim, W will need to raise a separate 
complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
HDI Global Speciality SE to:
Appoint a qualified surveyor to undertake further investigation into how the damage 
occurred. 
Reconsider the claim using the findings of the expert report alongside all of the 
information they already have. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman