DRN-3207815
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays by Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) in dealing with his 
request to withdraw funds from his pension. He said he had lost out on the chance to 
manage his income in the best way for income tax purposes
What happened
Mr W said he contacted SL on 31 March 2021 to request a withdrawal. He said this couldnt
be done online and postal forms took 10 days. He had made similar requests in the past and
they had been processed within 24 hours. He expected the same to happen this time.
He said he called around 12.30 to request about £28,000 withdrawal and made clear he
needed the money before 5 April 2021 so that it was in the 2020/21 tax year. He had
updated his address in January 2021, so the adviser asked for details to verify this. These
were uploaded at around 15.30 that afternoon. The SL website had a ticker indicating six
days for transactions to the Tax Year End. Mr W also said that although 5 April fell just after
the Easter Weekend SL had confirmed that it was working on the Friday and Monday either
side of the weekend. The Monday being 5 April and the last day of the tax year. Mr W
chased again on 1 April 2021 and the reply indicated the documents had been sent on and
he would be contacted if anything further was needed. Mr W sent a follow up message
saying the commitment was that the money would be transferred into his account this
financial year and asked for confirmation asap.
There was an acknowledgement at around 16.41 on 1 April 2021 to say it was being dealt
with by the drawdown team and they had been asked to make contact. Having checked the
online portal on 3 April, which showed no change, he sent a further email to say that if the
transaction was not completed before the tax year end it must not continue as it would not
meet his tax planning requirements. He also raised a formal complaint. He said there were
lots of delays in dealing with the complaint and it became clear that some emails were not
being received. The final response letter was dated 28 May and had to be sent from a
personal email address. There were then further delays in dealing with the complaint.
Mr W also queried the timing of the decision not to proceed with the transfer. He said at the
time the website was still clearly stating there was time to transfer money within the current
tax year. One of the last messages he received clearly indicated that the transfer was still
going through. It then seems that SL had decided not to complete the transfer and that
decision was made before the time the message was sent.
SL said that it should have told Mr W the cut off for the tax year end had already passed as it
was 30 March 2021. But in the call with Mr W the SL agent explained it wasnt guaranteed to
be done before the year end. It also explained that the latest time for payments to be made.
The adviser did everything he could to push the request through but unfortunately the
address verification failed, and it sent a message to say it would be in contact within 10
working days. It accepted that had it told him about the deadline he need not have stayed on
the call, so it paid £100 for that. It paid a further £200 because he didnt receive emails from
its complaints mailbox. It also said the countdown ticker on its website was for customers
wishing to pay further money. It also said that although it was open on Good Friday and
Easter Monday the banks were not. When it was clear the transaction would not go through
Mr W decided not to proceed.
SL said it did not advertise its cut off dates for transactions on its website. This was because
it wasnt practical to contact all customers individually about specific deadlines as they were
not the same for all types of request. (Mr W didnt agree and referred to FCA principles 6
and 7). The internal cut off time of 30 March only applied to business being processed by
professional advisers. It hadnt published a cut off time for individual investors. Mr W said no
cut of time was advised to staff and the rolling ticker suggested time for transactions. He was
clear about his needs but not one of the people he spoke to indicated a cut off time or that
there would be a problem.
SL said its adviser made clear on 31 March that there was no guarantee the payment would
be made before the tax year end. Mr W said it accepted the instruction and proof of ID on 31
March. SL said that although it was working on the Friday and Monday as they were UK
bank holidays it was unable to make payments on those days. Mr W also said it continued to
process the transaction when it knew it wouldnt be processed before the tax year end. The
funds just needed to be withdrawn from the SIPP they didnt need to be paid out to him. If it
had a high volume of requests, it should have published deadlines for processing. SL said it
validated address changes when making payments not when notified. Although it had paid
into the bank account in the past it had not done so within the previous 12 months. Mr W
said that if it had doubts it could have raised them on 31 March or 1 April. Mr W felt that once
the transaction was accepted SL had a duty of care to complete it before the tax year end.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. I said that in order to make an award 
against SL, I first needed to decide if it did anything wrong. If I concluded that it did then I 
could make an award for any financial loss ( to put Mr W back in the position he would have 
been in but for the mistake) and distress and inconvenience arising as a result of that 
mistake.
It seemed clear to me that SL didnt advertise a cut-off date for end of tax year withdrawal
requests. It wasnt for me to tell SL how to run its business but by not publishing clear
information about such deadlines it did run the risk that consumers would make last minute
requests for withdrawals that might not be processed before the tax year end. However, it 
said deadlines could cause confusion and left it for consumers to use their own judgement to
allow a reasonable timescale for a withdrawal. I thought that was reasonable.
This was what happened to Mr W. I considered whether it was possible that had a cut off
time been published, and Mr W was aware of it he might have called sooner than he did. But
I didnt think it would have. I said that because on the call Mr W explained that the reason he 
was making the request was because he had become aware of some income he would 
receive in the following tax year and he had therefore decided to bring forward this payment 
into the current tax year. So, it seemed that he had not originally intended to make a 
withdrawal in that tax year, but his circumstances changed such that it would be better for 
him to do so. This seemed to have created a tight timescale. But that wasnt SLs fault.
Mr W hadnt said he checked to see how long the transaction would take and then delayed
acting until the last minute allowing enough time based on that information, nor that he acted
in reliance on a statement from SL about when he needed to take action.
So, I didnt think it would have made any difference to the timing of his call even if it had
published deadlines for withdrawals because even if he thought the deadline had passed he
might still have called on the basis of his past experience.
I didnt think the failure to publish such information caused Mr W loss. I said that because thenew information he received about income for the following tax year meant he had to make
the request at the last moment. He may have hoped there would be enough time based on
his past experience, but SL didnt give him any commitment that it would process his request
in such a timescale just said that it would try to do so.
I have listened to the call and the agent made it clear both at the start and end that
there was a risk that it wouldnt be put through in time. The agent also made a request that in
future Mr W allow time as he was cutting it fine. So, while Mr W might have hoped it would
go through in time and did strongly protest that it must go through, SL didnt commit that it
would.
I didnt think that SL wasted Mr Ws time by keeping him on the call. I said that because the
agent explained the position clearly at that start of the call, but Mr W still opted to stay on the
call and try to see if the transaction could go through. So, I thought it was his choice to stay 
on the call knowing there was a risk it might not happen.
I also didnt think Mr W was acting in reliance on any representations made by SL that it
would go through, as it was clear this wasnt the case.
I thought SL made clear it accepted the transaction on the basis it would try to process it in
time, but it wasnt guaranteed, so I dont think it was under a duty to process it in time. It
seemed that the delay was probably due to the need to verify Mr Ws postal address. That is
frustrating for Mr W, but SL is required to verify such information and I cannot hold it
responsible for the fact this meant there wasnt sufficient time left.
I could understand that Mr W feels the address information should have been verified earlier 
in the year. But it was up to SL how it runs its business and I cannot tell it how to do that. In 
any event if I could tell it what to do, I didnt think it was unreasonable for it to verify on a just 
in time basis (i.e. when it needs to rely on the information) rather than a just in case basis as 
the information might not be needed or might change again before it did, leading to wasted 
time.
Mr W was clear that he had lost the opportunity to optimise his tax planning in that year. But 
for the reasons given I couldnt say that was SLs fault.
Given those conclusions I did not have the power to make any award for loss or distress and
inconvenience caused by the failure to process the withdrawal in the 20/21 tax year.
Even if I was wrong in that conclusion, staying on the call didnt cause Mr W financial loss. I
said that because had he rung off sooner, he would not have had any chance of making a
withdrawal at all and he would always have missed out on the tax management opportunity
he hoped to utilise. So, he is in the same position he would always have been in.
Also staying on the call didnt cause him to miss out on the chance to optimise the tax
treatment of his income for that tax year, instead it increased the chance that it might be
possible he could make that withdrawal.
I noted Mr W feels that the payments of £100 and £200 do not compensate him for his
financial loss but for the reasons given, I dont think he is entitled to such compensation.
Also, these payments are intended to compensate for distress and inconvenience and are
not for financial loss.
Had I concluded that SL had wasted his time by keeping him on the call and not being clear
the deadline had passed I would have considered an award for distress and inconvenience.
Had I done so I would have been of the view that the £100 already offered/ paid was fair andreasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W also complained about the handling of his complaint by SL. This service cannot
consider a complaint about handling a complaint as it isnt an activity within the scope of the
rules governing this service.
However, at the heart his Mr Ws point is an issue about poor communication and the fact
that emails from the complaints mailbox werent getting to him. Mr W refers to the regulator
principles that apply to SL. These say that:-
Principle 6. a firm must pay due regard to the interests if its customers and treat
them fairly
Principle 7A firm must pay due regard to the information needs or its clients and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
I thought Mr W is right to refer to the principles and the fact emails were not reaching him
meant he wasnt receiving clear and fair communication. However, no financial loss was
caused by the failure to communicate via the complaints mailbox. I considered an
award for distress and inconvenience caused by this failure. I could see that this was
frustrating for Mr W and would have reduced his confidence in SL. I was of the view that the
payment of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
For those reasons I didnt propose to direct SL to take any further action and I thought that it
had acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
I didnt propose to direct SL to take any further action and I think that it has acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner.
Mr W said he was very disappointed with my view and that I had failed to address the point 
that in the end SL admitted that having accepted the request to complete the transfer they 
failed to do the transfer because they had a problem confirming the address on 3 April 2021. 
This was despite having acknowledged the change of address in January 2021 and that they 
changed their records to reflect the new address on their system at that time. How could it 
be OK to accept the address in January and then raise a query in April when all the identity 
checks confirmed the same address. Further notwithstanding the funds were not being sent 
by cheque to an address they were being transferred to the same bank account that had 
been in use since 2006 to the excuse just didnt stand up. 
SL had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind.
My provisional decision considered the reason for the delay seemed to be the need to verify 
Mr Ws new address. While SL may have amended its records earlier in the year it needed 
to verify the address. In my provisional decision I said that I could not tell SL how to run its 
business. I also thought that an approach of verifying an address when needed rather than 
when notified of such a change, was reasonable. While SL may have amended its records 
that did not mean it had verified the new address.SL had also commented that while it had made previous payments to the same bank 
account it had not done so within the last 12 months, so this issue was also commented on 
at the time.
My final decision
I think Standard Life Assurance Limited has acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman