DRN-3738733
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly 
declined a fire damage claim made under its Motor Trade Policy.  
Mr T, who is a director of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
R took out an AXA Motor Trade Policy. On 17 September 2021, a vehicle which it had been 
repairing caught fire while on Mr Ts drive. R made a claim on its policy, but AXA said there 
was no cover because the vehicle wasnt in the custody or control of R and therefore the 
policy didnt respond. 
R was carrying out a campervan conversion on a vehicle for a customer which Ill refer to as 
V. Mr T is a director of both R and V. The conversion work included windscreen replacement 
in addition to other repairs. R said that a catch for the window had been ordered and while 
waiting for the part to arrive, due to space constraints at Rs workshop, the vehicle was 
moved to Mr Ts home address. The vehicle caught fire while parked on Mr Ts drive.
AXA made a without prejudice offer for £25,750 to settle the claim while cover was being 
confirmed. Mr T didnt accept the offer. AXA later withdrew the offer and declined the claim.  
AXA said that indemnity for this type of situation would be provided under the Road Risk 
section of the policy but the terms state that cover is provided for damage to a customers 
vehicle when in the custody or control of R. AXA believed that at the time of the fire damage, 
the vehicle had been handed back to the customer (V), as such, AXA concluded that the 
vehicle was no longer in Rs custody or control and therefore there was no cover under the 
policy. 
R argued that the vehicle was still in its custody or control because it moved the vehicle 
while waiting for the catch to arrive. It said the work to the vehicle hadnt been completed 
and therefore the vehicle hadnt been handed back to V. Furthermore, it argued that the 
vehicle had been moved using Rs trade plates and it remained on the driveway of Rs 
director, so irrespective of the fact that Mr T was also a director of V, the vehicle was still 
under the control or custody of R.  
Our investigator initially agreed that the vehicle was still under Rs control when it was 
moved to Mr Ts address. Based on the information he had at the time, he was persuaded 
that the vehicle was moved by R, while waiting for the catch to arrive, in order to make 
space for other vehicles which needed repair. In light of this, our investigator was persuaded 
that R retained the vehicle and therefore it was still in its custody and control. 
Following his opinion, AXA provided further information to show that when Rs policy was 
taken out, its business description stated R was a windscreen repairer including mobile 
work. During the claim investigation, Mr T told them that the windscreen repair had been 
completed prior to the incident and other electrical work remained outstanding. AXA 
therefore argued that Rs policy provided cover when the vehicle is in Rs custody or control 
in connection with its business, and this was the extent of the risk the policy covered. AXA 
therefore concluded that as the windscreen work had been completed (as advised by Mr T) 
and the work which remained outstanding was not in connection with its business, the policy 
didnt respond. Our investigator reviewed the new evidence and agreed with AXA. As a 
result, he concluded that AXA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by declining Rs claim. 
R disagreed with our investigator; the complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
R maintains that the catch was broken and therefore the windscreen work had not been 
completed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything R and AXA have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
The crux of this complaint centres on AXAs decision to decline Rs claim. The relevant rules 
and industry guidance say that AXA have a responsibility to handle the claims promptly and 
fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if I think AXA have 
applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner when declining Rs claim. 
Having reviewed everything available to me, I think they did, Ill explain why. 
The Road Risk section of the policy that Rs claim has been considered under provides 
cover where there is insured damage to an insured vehicle. And describes an insured 
vehicle as: 
a) Any motor vehicle (including accessories, plant, fixed equipment) as detailed 
under paragraph 1. Description of vehicle if the effective Certificate of Motor 
Insurance.  
Paragraph 1 of the certificate of motor insurance states: 
Description of Vehicle
Any motor vehicle the property of the Policyholder or in the custody or control of the
Policyholder in connection with the Business.
The policy defines business as: 
The activities undertaken directly in connection with the business as specified in the 
schedule...
I have seen a copy of the insurance schedule dated August 2021 which states the following: 
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION
The business description of the insured is Windscreen Repairers   
I agree with our investigator that the Road Risk section of the policy provides cover to R 
when in custody or control of the vehicle in connection with its business, in this case that 
being windscreen repairs. When bringing the complaint to our service, R told us that there was still outstanding work in 
relation to the glass replacement which included fitting a catch to the window. R said the 
catch was on order and while R awaited delivery the vehicle was moved to Mr Ts drive. 
However, AXA provided our investigator with an earlier telephone recording where Mr T told 
them that the windscreen work had been completed a week or so before the fire and the 
work outstanding involved other conversion work such as electrical repairs. Mr T also told 
AXA during the conversation that R undertakes more than windscreen repairs, it also does 
conversations and other works on vehicles. R said its broker is fully aware of the work it 
carries out. 
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not, given 
the evidence which is available.
It's not in dispute that glass replacement work had been carried out on the vehicle. Im also 
satisfied from the telephone recording Ive listened to that Mr T did tell AXA the windscreen 
repair had been completed before the fire incident and other repairs such as electrical work 
remained outstanding. Furthermore, Ive seen an email dated 26 August 2021 from a 
supplier which confirms the catch in question was sent out that day. Ive not been provided 
with any other evidence to suggest that there was a delay in receiving it. I consider its 
therefore most likely that the catch was received by R before the fire incident on 
17 September 2021 and the windscreen repair had been completed. 
The policy wording is clear in that the vehicle must be in the custody or control of the 
policyholder in connection with the Business. Both parties dispute the meaning of custody 
and control. However, I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on this because 
Im satisfied that the policy wouldnt respond in any event as the work being carried out 
wasnt in connection with the business activity R had insured. 
I note that R told AXA its business was involved in more than windscreen repairs and its 
broker was fully aware of the work it carried out. As the investigator explained in his view, if 
R remains unhappy with how the policy was set up by its broker, it will need to raise this 
separately with the broker. This complaint is only in relation to AXAs handling of the claim. 
Having carefully considered whats happened, Im satisfied that AXA didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when declining Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman