DRN-1465949
 
The complaint
Mrs N, on behalf of the Estate of Mr M, complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc(M&S) lost Mr M's original death certificate.
What happened
Mrs N says she was asked to send M&S Mr M's original death certificate and probate forms. 
She questions why that was necessary, but sent it by recorded delivery. Mrs N says M&S 
received the probate forms but lost the original death certificate which was produced in 
Bangladesh. She says the death certificate can't be replaced and cost thousands of pounds 
to get in the first place. Mrs N says the certificate has sentimental value and the loss of it has 
caused her and her family distress. She says she would like the death certificate returned.
M&S says it can't find the certificate and says that it doesn't think it received it. It accepts it 
asked for original documents and has offered £75 as a gesture of goodwill. M&S says its 
document of receipt says the probate documents were received, but not the death certificate.
Mrs N brought the complaint to us and our adjudicator didn't uphold it. The adjudicator 
thought it wasn't our role to tell a business what its policy was about original documents, and 
M&S's internal document showed that it hadn't received the death certificate. The adjudicator 
didn't think it possible to say M&S had received and lost the certificate.
Mrs N doesn't accept that view and in summary says she would like M&S to return the 
original death certificate. She says she is not the slave of M&S and it should get a new one if 
necessary and shouldn't have asked for it in the first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise Mrs N will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about what has happened at what I accept must be a 
difficult time for her and her family.
I make clear to Mrs N that this complaint is brought by the estate of Mr M. So that means I 
can't consider the distress and upset caused to Mr M's family by what has taken place, even 
if I was sure M&S had made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also can't question or comment 
on what M&S's policy is on receiving original documents. I appreciate Mrs N says it was 
unnecessary to send original documents. But I'm satisfied such matters are for a business to 
decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement, and not something I can fairly 
interfere in.
There is no doubt M&S asked for original documents. I can see that Mrs N is in no doubt that 
she sent those original documents, that included the death certificate. But I can also see that 
M&S is equally sure it didn't receive them. And its internal receipt form, completed at the time, records that the death certificate was missing. So in those circumstances I find that it's 
impossible to be sure what took place and which, if any, party made a mistake here. I also 
think there is the possibility that the certificate could have been lost whilst being delivered. I 
am satisfied that M&S has searched for the certificate and carried out appropriate enquiries.
So I can't fairly hold M&S responsible for the loss of the death certificate but I can see that 
it's fairly offered £75 as a gesture of goodwill. I appreciate Mrs N says the death certificate 
cost thousands of pounds. But she hasn't told me why that was the case or provided any 
evidence of that cost. I appreciate Mrs N says she shouldn't have to obtain a new copy in 
any event and that M&S should do so. As I have reached the view that I can't hold M&S 
responsible for what took place, then it follows that I can't order it to pay compensation for a 
replacement death certificate. And I think in any event that it would be inappropriate and 
impossible for M&S to obtain a replacement death certificate, as any application would have 
to be made by the estate of Mr M.
Overall I don't uphold this complaint and will leave it to Mrs N to decide if she wishes to 
accept the gesture of goodwill offer. I don't think Mrs N has explained why a replacement 
death certificate can't be obtained .I can see that Mrs N is considering court action. And I 
think that brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman