DRN-1694241
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons.
From what we know about how this type of policy was sold, I think its most likely that Bank 
of Scotland made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it. 
Mr B says the PPI was recommended to him so strongly that he felt he didnt really have a 
choice. But I dont think it would be reasonable to uphold the complaint based solely on his 
recollection of something that happened so long ago. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Although he had some savings 
and sick pay, and possibly an income protection insurance policy, the PPI wouldve paid him 
133% of his monthly mortgage repayment for up to 12 months if he couldnt work. That 
wouldve left his sick pay, savings, and any other insurance pay-outs, available for other 
things. 
In hindsight, Mr B now thinks the PPI was unnecessary. But, given he accepted the 
recommendation to take out the PPI, it seems like he didnt feel that way at the time  
despite knowing what sick pay, savings and other insurance he had available. Mr B initially 
said he didnt remember any details about his income protection insurance. But, after the 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, he said it wouldve paid out his full salary for up to a 
year. I dont feel I can rely on this to uphold the complaint without evidence to confirm what 
cover was provided  which Mr B has said he cannot provide.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think Mr B would still have bought it. Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr 
B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of commission and profit share dont apply, because the 
PPI covered a regulated mortgage. 
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman