DRN-3597759
The complaint
Mr P complains about the time it took for an overpayment to be refunded to him, following 
the settlement of a hire purchase agreement hed entered into with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS). 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with AFS. The 
total amount financed on this agreement was £37,125 payable over 48 monthly payments of 
£581.70
Mr P says his agreement was settled on 24 February 2022, however as his monthly payment 
was due a few days later, he contacted AFS to ensure it wasnt taken from his bank account. 
Mr P says he was advised by AFS not to cancel his direct debit as it could affect his credit 
rating if the payment request was declined. Mr P says he was told he should allow the 
payment to go through as he would receive a refund. Mr P says by 11 March 2022 he 
contacted AFS as he still hadnt received his refund despite confirmation from AFS on 5 
March 2022 that his agreement had been settled. 
In March 2022 Mr P complained to AFS. However, Mr P said he eventually received his 
refund on 14 March 2022 but wasnt happy that the refund took longer than he was told it 
would take. 
On 16 March 2022, AFS provided their final response to Mr Ps complaint. AFS didnt uphold 
his complaint as they believed the refund was provided within their terms. AFS advised that 
it could take up to 19 days for a refund to be received after the settlement of an agreement.
Mr P says it was inconvenient having to do without a monthly payment of £581.70 for 18 
days. He also said he was inconvenienced with the time taken to deal with the complaint and 
the stress and worry caused by not knowing when the refund would be made. Mr P said he 
would like visibility of AFS agreement closure procedure, an apology from AFS, and for AFS 
to amend their policy to make it more efficient to reduce timescales for refunds.
Unhappy with AFS decision, Mr P brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that AFS didnt need to take any action. They felt that AFS had 
acted fairly in the circumstances.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
So, to decide if AFS have acted fairly here, Ive considered whether there were any 
unreasonable delays when they processed Mr Ps refund.
Mr P said that AFS told him hed be refunded within three to five working days of his 
agreement being closed. AFS confirmed to us that Mr P spoke to their customer service 
department on 3 March 2022.  Having listened to a recording of that phone call, I can see 
that Mr P was told that the closure of his agreement could take up to 10 working days, and 
that once it was closed a clearance letter would be sent to him in the post and then the 
refund would take three to five working days after that to go through. 
In their final response AFS advised that the closing down procedure takes between 10 to 14 
days, which is from settlement to the finance marker being removed. It went on to say it 
takes a further three to five days for any overpayments to be refunded.
AFS provided a statement of Mr Ps agreement which showed it was settled on 24 February 
2022. It also showed that a further monthly payment for £581.70 had been taken out four 
days later on 28 February 2022, which was the overpayment that AFS needed to refund to 
Mr P. Ive also seen a copy of the clearance letter that was sent to Mr P. It was dated 5 
March 2022. In an email to our investigator AFS confirmed that the overpayment refund was 
processed by them on 10 March 2022.
In consideration of the timeline of events and the evidence provided, Im satisfied that AFS 
acted fairly in how they processed the refund for Mr Ps overpayment.
The clearance letter from AFS, which confirmed the closure of the agreement was dated 5 
March 2022. Mr P was told the agreement would be closed up to 10 working days after it 
was settled. Given Mr Ps agreement was settled on 24 February 2022 Im satisfied the its 
closure was within the given timescales.
AFS told Mr P that his refund would be made between three to five working days after he 
received the clearance letter. AFS confirmed to us the refund was processed on 10 March 
2022, which was four working days after the date on the letter, which is also within the given 
timescales.
Mr P said he received the refund into his bank account on 14 March 2022, which was one 
working day later than hed expected to receive it.
Although Ive seen no evidence of when the payment was received, Ive no reason to doubt 
what Mr P has said. However, given AFS had processed the refund on 10 March 2022, 
which was within their timescales, I recognise theres every chance that Mr Ps bank may 
have taken the additional day to receive and process the funds. So, with all things 
considered, I dont think itd be fair to hold AFS responsible for this.
I acknowledge what Mr P has said about AFS holding onto his funds, but the evidence 
doesnt show me that they did. The evidence shows they processed the refund within their 
timescales. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman