DRN-4340309
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc irresponsibly agreed a loan for him.
What happened
TSB agreed a loan of £3,000 for Mr C in February 2021. The total amount owed was
£4,105.44 to be repaid at £114.04 a month over 36 months. I understand that Mr C made
most of his repayments to at least February 2023, missing two. TSB told us that Mr C
applied for further credit in March and September 2021 but was declined for various reasons
which included affordability.
Mr C complained that TSB was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for him as he couldnt
afford the repayments. He said he had a poor credit rating and the bank didnt verify his
application details before lending to him.
TSB said that it used the information Mr C provided, along with information from his credit
file and estimated his expenses using available benchmark data. It said it was satisfied it had
conducted an appropriate check on his application prior to approval and it didnt uphold his
complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to us. Our investigator
looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommended that it be upheld. They found that
there wasnt anything in the information TSB had gathered that ought to have prompted it to
look into his circumstances further before lending to him.
Mr C didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 14 August 2023 
explaining why I thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. I shared the information Id 
relied on, including copies of Mr Cs bank statements for three current accounts, and allowed 
time for both parties to provide any comments or new information they wished me to 
consider when making my final decision. Mr C said he agreed with my provisional decision 
but TSB did not. It provided comments and further information for me to take into account 
when making my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including TSBs response to my provisional decision, I 
remain of the view that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Ill set out my reasons for my 
conclusion again in this final decision and address its response where appropriate.  
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as TSB, need to abide by. 
TSB will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, TSB needed to check that Mr C could afford to meet
his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan, without having to borrow
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and to Mr Cs circumstances. Ultimately, TSB needed to treat Mr C fairly and take
full account of his interests when making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if
it targeted customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
My considerations are did TSB carry out a proportionate check before lending to Mr C and, if
not, what would such a check have shown? Did TSB make a fair lending decision?
TSB said that it used a combination of customer provided information, credit reference
agency data and available benchmark data on typical expenses to make its lending
decisions.
I said in my provisional decision: 
Mr C said in his loan application that he was employed full-time earning £1,100 a month, 
that he was living with his parents and had no rent payments or other borrowings. TSB 
hasnt provided us with a copy of the information it relied on from Mr Cs credit file. It 
explained that it received information from his file in the form of a score rather than a 
detailed breakdown. It used the score to judge whether the application fell within its lending 
criteria and, as Mr Cs application was successful, it was confident that it did so. I also dont 
know what figure TSB estimated as Mr Cs disposable income - it said it estimated this 
based on his income with a deduction for housing cost, repayment to existing borrowing and 
essential living costs.
As TSB will know, the regulations in place at the time stated that it wasnt generally sufficient
to rely solely on a statement of income made by the customer without independent evidence,
and I cant see that TSB had anything to support Mr Cs income statement. I dont know
exactly what information it had from Mr Cs credit file but, as he had existing debts at the
time, I think its likely that there was some discrepancy between this and what hed said on
his application form about having no debt repayments. Altogether, I cant say that TSB
carried out a proportionate check here and it should have looked into Mr Cs circumstances
further before lending to him.
Mr C has provided us with bank statements for three current accounts from around the time
and a recent copy of his credit file. To be clear, Im not suggesting this is the information
TSB should have relied on but its the information I have and I think its reasonable to rely on
this to get some understanding of what a proportionate check might have shown.
Mr Cs bank statements show that he was earning around £640 on average a month. He
was also in receipt of a student loan, with a payment of £1,398 in January 2021. I dont have
any other information about this but I think its reasonable to assume it was paid per term
and not paid during the summer months. So while Mr C had an average monthly income of
about £990, this wasnt regular and I havent seen evidence of any other income.
Mr C had three overdraft facilities and was overdrawn on these to about £3,000. He owed 
over £3,000 across four credit cards and had recently taken out a similar sized loan with 
another bank with repayments of £151. His other expenses included mobile and media 
payments of about £90. I dont know what TSB estimated as Mr Cs living costs but I think 
its reasonable to assume that he incurred some costs for food, transport, clothing etc. even 
if these were minimal due to his circumstances.Agreeing this loan for Mr C would commit him to paying a large proportion of his income on
debt, even assuming he was making the minimum repayments on his credit cards and
overdrafts. Altogether, I think the information shows that Mr C wasnt likely to be able to
meet his repayments on further credit without difficulty. I currently think TSB would have
declined to lend to Mr C on this occasion had it looked into his circumstances further before
doing so. TSB said it declined to lend to Mr C the following month when he applied for
another loan and again six months later in September for various reasons including
affordability. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Cs circumstances had changed in this
time. 
Mr Cs bank statements show that he was gambling most days spending large amounts of
his income and that this loan was spent within a week. Mr C took out another loan for a
similar amount from another lender the next day and continued to take on more credit to the
extent that he currently owes almost £19,000. While Mr C managed to meet most of his
repayments for his loan I cant say he did so without experiencing financial difficulty or
adverse consequences. I currently think TSB was irresponsible when it lent to Mr C and it
needs to take steps to put things right for him.
In response to my provisional decision, TSB provided us with the credit reference agency 
(CRA) data and the expenditure estimates it relied on when making its lending decision. 
As set out above, Id provisionally found that TSB didnt have independent information to 
support what Mr C had said about his income. TSB said in response that the CRA data it 
relied on returned a score based on Mr Cs bank account turnover, which suggested he had 
more money coming in that hed actually stated. This reassured TSB that he hadnt 
overstated his income. 
I also found that, as Mr C had existing debts at the time, there was likely to be a discrepancy 
between what hed said on his application (that he had no debt repayments) and whatever 
debts TSB found on his credit file. The CRA data TSB provided doesnt show Mr Cs existing 
loan balances but records that he spent around £150 a month repaying loans and owed 
£650 of revolving credit. TSB estimated Mr Cs housing costs as £195 and his living costs as 
£448 based on national statistical datasets. With an income of £1,100 this left him with an 
estimated £300 to meet his loan repayment of £114 and any other costs he might have.
The assessment TSB carried out might well be reasonable in some cases. However, the 
regulations stated that certain factors might point to the need for a more rigorous 
assessment and, having considered this point carefully, I think that Mr Cs relatively low 
stated income meant that TSB needed to take extra care in approving a £3,000 loan for him. 
The repayments were likely to have a greater impact on his finances than if he earned more 
or had been offered a smaller loan and Mr C would need to meet his monthly repayments for 
three years, while meeting his other debts. Altogether, Ive concluded that TSBs checks 
werent proportionate on this occasion and it should have looked into Mr Cs actual means in 
more depth before agreeing to lend to him.  
We provided TSB with the information Id relied on in my provisional decision, which were 
bank statements from the time from Mr Cs three current accounts. TSB said that Mr Cs 
bank statements showed that his income in the three months before the loan came to 
£2,055, an average of £685 per month. It acknowledged that the student loan payment of 
£1,398 would likely be paid termly and using these figures his average monthly income over 
a year was £1,035. My estimate of Mr Cs average income was slightly lower at £990 as Id 
taken into account his earnings in February and I accept that had TSB seen Mr Cs bank 
statements, or other evidence of his income and his student loan prior to lending, it would have estimated a slightly higher average. It would also have understood that his regular 
monthly income was much lower. 
TSB said that even if it had asked Mr C for his bank statements it was likely that he would 
have provided statements for the account his income was paid into. This wasnt the account 
that showed his gambling transactions and so it wouldnt have learnt about these. However, 
TSB would have learnt that Mr Cs regular monthly income from work was less than £700, 
that he was repaying more debt than its checks revealed including £50 interest on his £2,000 
overdraft and several hundred pounds a month towards his credit cards. Ive concluded, as 
before, that a proportionate check would likely have shown that agreeing this loan for Mr C 
would commit him to paying such a large proportion of his income on debt that he wasnt 
likely to be able to meet his repayments without difficulty.
I also think its likely that TSB would have seen that Mr C was transferring significant 
amounts of money between this and his other accounts and, while it might not have 
understood the impetus behind these transactions, I think it would have declined to lend to 
him under the circumstances. TSB declined a loan for Mr C the following month and again in 
September. It said that these subsequent applications were declined because Mr Cs 
position had deteriorated and the new applications did not meet its criteria.
Id mentioned in my provisional decision that Mr C took out another loan for a similar amount 
from another lender the next day. On review, this loan was taken out in April 2021, two 
months later. Mr C continued to take on more credit to the extent that he currently owes 
almost £19,000. So, although Mr C managed to meet most of his repayments for his loan I 
cant say he did so without experiencing financial difficulty or adverse consequences.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for TSB but having carefully considered its 
response to my provisional decision along with the new information it provided, I remain of 
the view that it was irresponsible when it lent to Mr C on this occasion. It now needs to take 
steps to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
As Mr C had the use of the money he borrowed I think its fair that he repays this, but he 
shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or premiums associated with the loan. To put things
right for Mr C, TSB should:
Cap the amount he needs to repay at the capital amount he borrowed, being £3,000;
Consider all payments hes made as payments towards this capital amount;
oIf Mr C has repaid more than the capital he borrowed then TSB should refund 
these overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per annum*;
oIf Mr C hasnt yet repaid the capital then TSB should treat him fairly and 
sympathetically which may mean coming to an agreed arrangement plan with 
him or waiving the outstanding capital balance;
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Cs credit file, once settled;
** HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint about TSB Bank plc and it 
needs to put things right for him as Ive set out.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman