DRN-4300756
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Zurich Insurance plc unfairly declined her claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle or estate car, first 
registered in 2014.
In September 2021, Mrs L had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. She was the 
policyholder. The policy didnt cover any other driver. Zurich was responsible for dealing with 
any claim.
In September 2021, Mrs L reported that, after shed lent the car to a friend, it had been badly 
damaged by fire.
Mrs L is represented by an insurance consultant. Where I refer to Mrs L, I may include her 
representative.
Mrs L complained to Zurich that it should pay the claim.
Much of the complaint is about acts or omissions by claims-handlers on behalf of Zurich. 
Insofar as I hold Zurich responsible for such acts or omissions, I will refer to them as 
Zurichs.
By an emailed letter dated 24 November 2021, Zurich apologised for the time taken to reach 
a decision. Zurich turned down the claim because Mrs Ls friend had been the last person in 
charge of the car.
By a final response dated 25 November 2021, Zurich turned down the complaint about the 
claim. But it said it would pay the storage charges for the damaged vehicle (and this would 
be reflected against the claims history). Zurich said that it was sending Mrs L £200.00 
compensation for the delay in communicating its decision.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us in late January 2022. But there was a delay until April 
2023 before she provided a wet signature to the complaint form.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Zurich had treated Mrs L fairly.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She didnt provide any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ls statement that her friend had his own vehicle and 
insurance which gave him cover - for third party risks - to drive other vehicles (which would 
include hers).
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ls statement that her friend had temporarily left the car 
parked and unattended in a lay-by mid-journey before it caught fire.
However, Mrs Ls policy didnt cover her friend. And he was the last person to drive the car 
and he was in charge of it when it caught fire. So  while I understand the scale of her loss - 
I dont consider that Zurich treated Mrs L unfairly by declining to pay her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Zurich Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman