DRN-3357144
The complaint
Ms Q complains about the increase to her private medical insurance premium applied by 
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Ms Q has held private medical insurance cover with AXA for many years. In 2019 her 
premiums increased to £500.75 per month, and in 2020 they increased to £547.83. 
In 2020, Ms Q contacted another insurer for a quote, and was offered a new policy for £181 
per month. Ms Q contacted AXA to cancel her cover, and AXA offered her a new policy 
costing £183.07 per month. She didnt take out the new policy with AXA, but was unhappy 
that AXA hadnt told her about this option previously. Ms Q brought a complaint to this 
service about the matter. She thought shed been paying too much in 2019 and 2020, and 
wanted compensation for the amount she thought shed overpaid. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXA had 
calculated Ms Qs premiums fairly in 2019 and 2020. Our investigator explained that the new 
policy offered to Ms Q in 2020 was cheaper than her existing cover because her existing 
policy covered pre-existing conditions, whereas the new policy wouldnt do so. 
Ms Q didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge 
for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly and consistently, its a matter in 
which this service wouldnt normally interfere. 
AXA has explained to Ms Q the general factors taken into account behind the increase to her 
premiums. It has also provided this service with a breakdown of how these factors impacted 
Ms Qs premiums for 2019 and 2020. As our investigator has explained, this information is 
commercially sensitive so I cant provide her with a copy of this. But based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied the premium was charged fairly and accurately.
As our investigator has explained, the policy AXA offered to Ms Q in 2020 was cheaper than 
her existing cover because it wouldve started her as a new member on a new policy with 
different underwriting, which meant she wouldnt have had cover for existing conditions.
Ms Q says if shed known this option was available to her, she wouldve taken it out years 
ago. She says she has spoken with AXA previously about the cost of her premium, but AXA 
didnt give her the option of starting a new policy. Ms Q thinks AXA shouldve contacted all 
members to discuss the options available to them to reduce premiums.
AXA says that Ms Q last called it in 2016 to discuss the price of her cover. Unfortunately, it 
no longer has a copy of that call, so I dont know what was discussed or what options AXA 
gave Ms Q at this time. 
The policy explains that premiums tend to increase each year, and there are a number of 
reasons for that, such as age. It also says there are a few things the member can do to 
reduce the premium, such as adding an excess or setting a higher excess, or changing the 
plan to give different cover. 
Also, I see that the renewal information sent to Ms Q by AXA since 2017 made it clear that 
she may be able to get the insurance cover she wanted at a better price by shopping 
around. The renewal information also said that AXA had a range of options that she may 
wish to consider, and provided a phone number for her to call. 
Im satisfied that AXA made Ms Q aware she could contact it if she wasnt happy with her 
renewal price. I wouldnt have expected AXA to have proactively contacted all its customers 
to discuss reducing their premiums, or to have offered them a new policy with different 
underwriting (as this wouldnt be appropriate for many customers with existing conditions).
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman