DRN-3139876
The complaint
X has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as NatWest (NatWest) 
change in charging structure is going to cause him further financial difficulties.   
What happened
 One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest should have 
stopped charging overdraft fees from 1 August 2020 as by this point it was clear X was in 
financial difficulty. 
NatWest disagreed, it said the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. But NatWest was willing as a gesture of goodwill to accept our 
adjudicators view and would refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the account 
from 1 August 2020. 
NatWest advised that once refunded Xs account would still be overdrawn and that he would 
need to make an arrangement with it to repay the balance. X didnt accept NatWests offer 
as he would still be left owing money and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for X is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this case August 
2020. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
NatWest has told us that X is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have been 
made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his overdraft 
from August 2020. So while X has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with 
this, NatWest has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
X says NatWest should do something different here. He says he would like a full refund and 
doesnt want to be left with any debt.
Ive thought about what X has said. Our adjudicator thought it ought to have been apparent 
that X was having financial difficulty from 1 August 2020. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances before this where NatWest ought to have 
known X might have been experiencing financial difficulty. And I dont think there was. I say 
this because having looked at Xs statements I cant see anything to suggest that NatWest 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
X may argue his regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Xs 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were also regular incoming credits into the account and X was able to bring the 
overdraft down before once again going on to use his overdraft to make debit card 
transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that X 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to any potential financial difficulty. 
But by 1 August 2020 it was evident he was in financial difficulty  his statements showed he 
was at his overdraft limit and hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for a significant 
period of time and was using his overdraft to make ends meet. And this is the reason why I 
agree with our adjudicator and think it is fair NatWest refund all charges from this date. 
All the interest, fees and charges NatWest shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what he now needs to pay. So what X is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt 
that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed this is supported by Xs statements at 
the time which show significant transactions to parties other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind X spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect X to repay these funds. And I dont think that Xs unhappiness at 
having a debt to repay, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling 
reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put 
things right for X is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to X to decide whether he wishes 
to accept NatWests offer.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc trading 
as NatWest has already agreed to do to put things right for X is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman