DRN-2516838
The complaint
Mr G says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly. Mr G says that 
Cashfloat didnt do proper affordability checks before lending. He says that if it had done, it 
wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr G between November 
2018 and February 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 07/11/2018 £200 2 21/11/2018
2 28/12/2018 £300 2 03/01/2019
3 06/01/2019 £250 2 28/02/2019
4 28/02/2019 £400 3 28/05/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Cashfloat was wrong to 
approve loan 4. Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr G had 
shown before loan 4 that he could manage the repayments. And the checks it did showed 
that the repayments were affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment on this 
lending further, save to say, I agree with the outcome the adjudicator reached and for the 
same reasons. And they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr G had with Cashfloat and 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loan he took.
Loan 4 was Mr Gs fourth loan in a relatively short period of time. And it was the largest loan 
yet. So, I think Cashfloat couldve realised at that time that Mr G may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Cashfloat shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mr Gs actual financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate look further into Mr Gs financial situation, with an 
emphasis on whether he had any other short term lending. This is to make sure Mr G was in 
position to make the repayments sustainably. I dont think Cashfloat did this. So, I need to 
think about what Cashfloat wouldve likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr G has provided some information about his financial circumstances at the time which 
includes a copy of his credit file. I accept that this isnt exactly what Cashfloat couldve seen 
at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate 
checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
This evidence shows that Mr G was having problems managing his money. In particular, he 
had a significant amount of other short term loans outstanding. And he had been borrowing 
and repaying loans from other lenders for some time. I think this meant he wasnt likely to be 
sustainably making the loan repayments to Cashfloat, even if he was making the loan 
repayments on time. This is because he was borrowing to repay other lending at times. 
I think that Cashfloat wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
So I think that it shouldnt have given loan 4 to Mr G and I think hes lost out as a result of 
this. So, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had Cashfloat not approved loan 4, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempted to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr G loan 4.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should pay Mr G the total of A plus B.
D) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to loan 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman