DRN-3664230
The complaint
Ms A complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) cash offer, 
following a claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 following a named storm, Ms A contacted LV to make a claim for the 
damage that occurred to her properties. LV sent a surveyor to assess the damage. LV 
accepted that some of Ms As properties were damaged due to the storm. But some aspects 
of damage to the outbuildings, werent solely caused by the storm. It concluded that the 
storm highlighted the poor conditions of the buildings and declined to pay for the repairs to 
some areas of the outbuildings. 
LV accepted that it would be liable for the following areas and told Ms A the extent of its 
financial liability: 
Removal of two trees and damage to a septic tank.
Cost to replace missing/ broken glazed skylights.
Cost to replace the corrugated Perspex opaque/ clear roof panel(s) which allow light 
into some of the outbuildings.
Cost to demolish the section of damaged garden wall and rebuild to tie into existing.
Replacement of cowl to chimney of the main dwelling.
LV made it clear to Ms A that it would be settling the claim by way of a cash payment as it 
had no intention to instruct contractors to carry out the repairs. 
Ms A complained to LV as she believed that it didnt do anything about the damage and that 
the settlement didnt reflect the true cost of the repairs. She also raised concerns about the 
professionalism of the surveyor who attended.  So, LV instructed another surveyor. That 
surveyor came to the same conclusion as the first surveyor, that some of the damage to the 
outbuildings wasnt caused by the storm. As Ms A was still unhappy, she raised a complaint 
to LV.
In its final response, LV maintained its position, and gave Ms A her referral rights. Ms A 
referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that he was satisfied that LV hadnt unreasonably declined the other aspects of Ms As 
claim. He said that the evidence showed that the damage to those areas of the property 
were attributable to wear and tear and this wasnt covered by the policy. He said that the two 
separate reports came to the same conclusion that there was deterioration to the properties 
that were highlighted by the storm, not caused by the storm. So, he concluded that LV were 
entitled to offer a cash settlement in lieu of arranging the repairs, as the policy allowed for 
this method of settlement. 
LV accepted the view, Ms A did not. She said that she had concerns about the 
professionalism of the first surveyor and thought that the first and second surveyor had 
colluded, as they didnt get things correct about her property. She also thought that all the 
damage caused, was as a result of the storm, as before the storm she said the property was 
in good order. Ms A also mentioned her ill health as a reason why it would be difficult for her 
to instruct contractors herself, as she wanted LV to settle the claim in this way, rather than 
with the cash settlement it offered. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Ms A has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issues.
Generally, when I assess the evidence before me, I must be satisfied that there were 
prevailing storm conditions at the time of the claim. As LV has accepted there were 
prevailing storm conditions, I do not have to make a finding on whether a storm occurred. 
But I think the main issue of this complaint relates to whether LV unreasonably declined the 
other aspects of the claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
I have read the policy terms and conditions, to see what LVs obligations were to Ms A, as 
well as Ms As obligations under the policy. 
The policy contains the following exclusions: 
We will not pay for: any claim arising from:
- anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear, settlement or
shrinkage;
 mildew, fungus, climatic or atmospheric conditions, frost, wet or dry rot;
 any process of cleaning, repair or alteration;
 damage by insects.
Ms As obligation under the policy is to ensure that her property was maintained to a good 
standard: 
Care of your property: You or any person in charge of your property must take care to: 
maintain your property in good condition; and protect your property from damage or loss; 
The reports from both surveyors who attended to assess the damage to the outbuildings, 
were consistent in that they both essentially concluded that the buildings were in a poor state 
of repair. There was evidence of insect infestation, rot, wear and tear, age related 
deterioration and previous failed repairs. 
As the policy terms and conditions state that any damage caused by wear and tear, rot, poor 
repair, and damage by insects are not covered, I cant agree that LV unfairly declined this 
aspect of Ms As claim. I say this as when investigating complaints such as this, I can only assess the circumstances 
of the complaint based on the evidence presented by both parties. Ms A was asked to 
provide any further evidence for me to consider, that could be from an expert, that could 
refute the surveyors reports, which LV relied upon to decline part of her claim. 
Although Ms A didnt provide any expert evidence to refute the reports, she did explain that 
she believed that the damage to the outbuildings were caused by the storm. She had found 
out that there was £54,000 allocated to her claim for the repairs to be carried out. And she 
provided photos of the buildings prior to the storm taking place.
Accordingly, the only expert evidence I have are from the surveyors who concluded that not 
all the damage caused to the outbuildings, were due to a storm. And that the damage merely 
highlighted the pre-existing poor state of the buildings. 
Ms A wished me to consider photos of the outbuildings pre-storm, which she said showed 
them to be in a good state of repair. I have compared these photos with the photos taken by 
LV. 
What is of note is that the photo from Ms A is an aerial shot which shows the buildings a 
distance away. On the other hand, LVs photos are much closer and show the deterioration 
close up. They also show the rotten timbers and roof structures (among other things). 
Consequently, Im persuaded that there was damage to the building that wasnt caused as a 
result of a storm. I also think it was reasonable for LV to decline the claim, based on the poor 
state of the buildings, wear and tear, failed repairs, rot as well as damage caused by insects, 
as reported by the two surveyors who attended to inspect the property.
Ms A also complained that LV had chosen to settle the claim by way of a cash settlement, 
which she felt was unreasonable as previously contractors had been sent to carry out 
repairs. I have further considered the policy terms and conditions and can see that the policy 
allows LV to settle claims by way of a cash payment. Given that this was one of the 
methods in which LV were permitted to settle claims, I cant agree that it was unreasonable 
for it to use this method (rather than instruct contractors) to settle the aspects of Ms As 
claim that it accepted.
Overall, I think LV dealt with Ms As claim fairly. Im satisfied that it settled the aspects of the 
claim in which there was storm related damage. Im satisfied that it fairly applied the policy 
terms and conditions to the other aspects of the claim in which there was evidence that the 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. Im really sorry to hear of Ms As health 
problems and I understand how difficult this wouldve been. But I dont think LV were 
unreasonable to offer a cash settlement, as it complied with the policy terms. 
I understand that my findings wont be the outcome that Ms A wouldve liked but, in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably ask LV to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman