DRN-3261407
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to 
her the money that she paid for help with relinquishing a timeshare agreement. Shes being 
represented in her complaint by a claims management company.
What happened
Mrs W and her husband had a timeshare agreement which they wanted to relinquish. They 
entered into an contract with a supplier which was a company that specialised in timeshare 
relinquishment in January 2017. Mrs W used her Tesco Bank credit card later than month to 
pay a consultation fee of £1,000 under that contract and then to make a further payment 
under that contract of £6,914 in February 2017. The payments were made to two different 
companies, neither of which was the supplier. 
Mrs Ws representative claimed a refund of those payments from Tesco Bank under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the contract was with the supplier but the 
two payments were made to accountants who took payments and transferred the funds to 
the supplier. It said that that broke the required debtor-creditor-supplier link so it was unable 
to consider the claim under section 75. Mrs W wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator initially agreed with Tesco Bank that there was no relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship in these arrangements but he was then provided with information to 
show that the supplier and the company to which the consultation fee was paid were 
associates. He thought that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier chain and, as the supplier 
stopped trading in May 2018, it wouldnt have been in a position to relinquish Mrs W from the 
timeshare agreement. He thought that that was a breach of contract and that a fair resolution 
would be for Mrs W to receive a full refund as no services appeared to have been provided.
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that at 
the time that the contract was entered into, there was no association between the 
accountants and the supplier as there were no common directors or shareholders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mrs W made the payments using credit provided by Tesco Bank and, in certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
one of those circumstances is that there must be a relevant relationship between the 
debtor, the creditor and the supplier; 
to be able to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that 
there was such a relationship, that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, and that Tesco Banks response to her claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of 
that claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
section 184(3) of the Consumer Credit Act says:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate:
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a 
controller of one and persons who are his associates, or he 
and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the 
other; or
(b) if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each 
company, and the groups either consist of the same persons 
or could be regarded as consisting of the same persons by 
treating (in one or more cases) a member of either group as 
replaced by a person of whom he is an associate;
at the time that Mrs W entered into the contract with the supplier and at the time that 
she made the payment, I consider that Companies House records show that the 
supplier and the company to which she paid the £1,000 consultation fee were 
associates under that definition as both of them were controlled by persons who were 
associates as a result of their joint shareholding of another company;
because of that, I consider that there was a relevant relationship between the debtor, 
the creditor and the supplier in these circumstances so I consider that Mrs W is able 
to make a claim under section 75 for a refund of the money that she paid to both 
companies;
the supplier went into liquidation in May 2018 and its clear that Mrs W and her 
husbands timeshare hadnt been relinquished then because they received a notice 
for outstanding fees under their timeshare agreement in June 2018;
Ive not seen any evidence to show that the supplier had provided any services to 
Mrs W and her husband under the contract and I consider it to be more likely than 
not that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Bank to 
take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Tesco Bank should refund rework Mrs Ws credit card account as if the payments 
of £1,000 and £6,914 had been refunded to the account in March 2019 (which is when I 
consider that it should have upheld her section 75 claim and refunded the payments), that it 
should pay interest as set out below and that it should then refund any credit balance to 
Mrs W.
If Tesco Bank has recorded any adverse information on Mrs Ws credit file as a result of 
those payments being applied to her account, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it 
to remove that information.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I order Tesco Personal Finance plc, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:1. Rework Mrs Ws credit card account as if the payments of £1,000 and £6,914 had 
been refunded to the account in March 2019, and, if that puts the account into credit, 
to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods 
that the account was in credit - it should also refund the credit balance to Mrs W.
2. If Mrs W has repaid those amounts (or any part of them) to Tesco Bank but doesnt 
have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that she has repaid at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3. Remove any adverse information that its recorded on Mrs Ws credit file since March 
2019 as a result of those payments being applied to her account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman