DRN-3261037
The complaint
Ms T was unhappy as U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined to offer her a home and motor 
insurance renewal.
What happened
Ms T had a home and motor insurance policy provided by UKI. Ms T said UKI had gradually 
increased her monthly premiums over time and forced a high level of excess on the policy. 
When her policy was due for renewal, UKI decided not to offer Ms T a renewal of her 
insurance because of her claims history.
Ms T said UKI hasnt given her enough notice to find a policy with someone else. She has 
found it difficult to get another policy as she had to declare she had insurance refused 
elsewhere.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought UKI had acted fairly and 
its decision was reasonable when considering its attitude to risk and its underwriting criteria. 
Ms T disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Ms T will have been placed in a difficult position following UKIs 
decision not to renew her home and motor insurance. However, I should clarify that an 
insurer doesnt have to offer insurance to every customer. An insurer offers policies to 
customers based upon the level of risk it is willing to accept in return for a premium (the price 
the policyholder pays). Insurers will have rules that set out in which circumstances it can 
offer insurance to customers and in which circumstances it cant. These rules are defined in 
an insurers underwriting criteria.
However, its important that UKI has treated Ms T fairly. Ms T shouldnt have been treated 
any differently by UKI to any other customer who was in similar position. Therefore, I have 
checked what UKIs underwriting criteria and considered whether UKI has applied these 
consistently to Ms Ts circumstances. I wont be sharing the underwriting criteria as this is 
commercially sensitive information but be assured I have checked this carefully. 
UKIs decision to not offer an insurance renewal is consistent with its rules set out in its 
underwriting criteria. Ms Ts claims history has meant that UKI have felt that Ms Ts 
circumstances provide too much risk for it to insure her. As UKI, has acted in line with its 
underwriting rules, Im confident it wouldve treated any customer in a similar way, so in this 
instance, I dont think it has treated Ms T unfairly. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive also considered whether UKI has been fair in how it notified Ms T about its decision to 
decline cover. I can see UKI notified Ms T that it would be extending her current policy by 14 
days to give her more time and opportunity to find appropriate cover with another insurer. I 
think by taking this action, UKI has taken Ms Ts circumstances into consideration and made 
an adjustment, to provide Ms T with a little more time to arrange cover with a different 
insurer. Therefore, as I think UKI has acted fairly, I dont uphold this complaint.
I understand Ms T now feels its unreasonable that shes had to take out insurance cover 
with a different insurer and this has cost her more and she feels the terms she has are 
inferior. But, it wouldnt be fair for me to force UKI to offer Ms T a policy. It is reasonable for 
insurers to make their own decisions on what level of commercial risk they take on. I can 
only make sure UKI follows the same process for all customers. And in this case, I think UKI 
has. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman