DRN-3931869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about their mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. They say 
that Santander unfairly refused to allow a switch to a new interest rate product until their 
account had been clear of arrears for 6-12 months. Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy at the 
number of administrative errors Santander made when they were trying to sort out the 
problem. As a result, Mr and Mrs P say they had to pay Santanders Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR) for several months.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs P want Santander to backdate their mortgage payments 
from March 2022 onwards on the interest rate product they wanted to apply for.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 January 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs P being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs P have a mortgage with Santander taken out in 2015. Approximately £90,000 of 
the mortgage is capital repayment and about £650,000 is interest-only. In April 2020 
Mr and Mrs P took out a new interest rate product, when Santander also agreed to capitalise 
arrears of about £3,800 on the account. Total monthly repayments were £1,217.63 for the 
fixed rate period. The interest rate product expired on 3 April 2022.
In January 2022 Mr and Mrs P failed to make their mortgage repayment. Santander sent 
letters and a text about this but Mr P (who has dealt with the complaint throughout) said he 
didnt receive these because he was out of the country. 
The consequence of this was that in March 2022, when Mr and Mrs P tried to apply online 
for a new rate when their existing product was coming to an end, they were unable to do so. 
I will not set out all the administrative issues that arose, as these are covered in the 
correspondence. But the main impact was that in April 2022 the mortgage reverted to SVR.
After Mr and Mrs P complained, Santander explained that there had been some errors in 
communication. However, the bank clarified that it hadnt been possible to book a new rate 
online because the account was in arrears, and so the facility to do this online had been 
removed. 
Santander said that the online message instructed Mr and Mrs P to call, but instead they 
emailed, but to the banks consumer motor finance division and customer service, neither of 
which departments were able to assist. Mr P made requests for callbacks, but Santander 
didnt call Mr P.
When Mr P was able to speak to Santander in July 2022, he said he was told that the banks 
policy was that it would not agree a new rate until the account had been free of arrears for 
6-12 months. A complaint was made, with Mr P arguing that this was disproportionate and 
unfair. Mr P also complained about the poor customer service and the difficulties hed had 
contacting Santander.
In its final response, Santander acknowledged thered been some customer service errors, 
and offered £50 for not calling back or signposting Mr P to the correct area. However, the 
bank wasnt prepared to put the account onto a lower rate, whilst there were arrears.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. He didnt think the compensation for the customer service errors was sufficient 
and asked Santander to pay an additional £150, bringing the total compensation to £200. 
With regard to the product switch, the investigator noted that a payment arrangement for the 
arrears had been put in place, and that once the arrears were cleared a new rate could be 
applied for. He wasnt persuaded that Santander had said that the account needed to be 
up-to-date for 6-12 months; this hadnt been mentioned in the final response, and 
contradicted what the bank had said to Mr and Mrs P in August 2022, when they were told 
they could have a new product once the arrears had been paid off.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Santander was required to backdate any new 
product to April 2022. He explained that, where an account is in arrears, tying customers to a 
new product that has an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) can put them in a worse position if 
their financial difficulties mean that they are unable to maintain the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr P has made some further points, which I summarise below:
the 6-12 month delay before a new product could be put in place was fundamental, as it 
turned a relatively easily surmountable arrears situation into something that was simply 
not feasible;
delays in receiving the correct advice had a material impact on the ability to settle the 
arrears, which were growing month by month because of the increase in the mortgage 
payments once it reverted to SVR;
the investigators ruling is  extremely unbalanced in favour of a huge multinational worth 
billions which is only being fined £200 whereas he is being penalised with a mortgage 
rate that has increased by over £2,500 per month to more than £4,000 per month, which 
will inevitably result in the repossession of his home and bankruptcy;
he would like us to advise Santander to review this matter so the bank gets paid exactly 
what it would have received if it hadnt made the mistakes it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted Mr Ps directions in relation to evidence and 
his request that we advise Santander to settle the matter, thats not something that Im able 
to do, because I dont represent Mr and Mrs P in this complaint.
I will also clarify that we are not a regulator and so have no power to fine or punish 
Santander. We can award redress for actual financial losses and compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. It is into this latter category that the compensation recommended by the 
investigator falls; it is not a fine or a penalty.
Turning to the issues in the complaint, because Santander has accepted it made errors, I 
dont need to analyse the events in detail to decide who is at fault or why. Indeed, I note that 
Mr and Mrs P also acknowledge they made errors.
Ive seen that the January 2022 direct debit was returned unpaid  once on 5 January 2022 
and again on 17 January 2022. I dont know if this was due to insufficient funds, or as a 
result of an error on the part of the bank operating the current account from which the direct 
debit was taken, but nothing turns on this. 
Im satisfied Santander took reasonable steps to contact Mr and Mrs P by letter and text. 
Mr P was out of the country and so didnt see the letters or text. I am not told whether Mrs P 
was also abroad, but as this is a joint mortgage, correspondence would have been 
addressed to both mortgagors at the secured address.
I find no error in Santander blocking access to new rates via its online portal because of the 
arrears. I agree with the investigator that, where customers are in financial difficulty, allowing 
them to take out a new product with an ERC can make their situation worse, not better, if 
their financial situation is such that they would not be able to keep up with the mortgage in 
any event. So I find Santander did nothing wrong here.
Mr P says that he was told a new product couldnt be applied for until the account was 
arrears free for 6-12 months. I think its possible he was told this, as it is a policy many 
lenders have in place. Theres no evidence in Santanders records Mr P was told this, but in 
the context of this complaint, it doesnt affect the outcome Ive reached.
I say this because Im satisfied that, due to the arrears, Santander wasnt under any 
obligation to put in place a new interest rate product. Its important when customers fall into 
arrears that the bank is able to discuss the reasons why financial difficulties have arisen, and 
so thats why, when Mr and Mrs P tried to book a new rate, a message popped up asking 
them to call the bank. 
Rather than calling Santander  as the message on the portal instructed  Mr and Mrs P 
chose to email Santander instead, and contacted the wrong section of the bank. I cant hold 
the bank responsible for this. But Santander should have called back when it said it would, 
and things were delayed as a result.
Although Mr P says that this was a situation which could have been resolved quickly, the 
arrears werent, in fact, paid off quickly. Im satisfied that by May 2022 Mr P had confirmed to 
Santander that he was aware that the mortgage might be in arrears, as hed received an 
email to this effect. 
However, further arrears accrued as the monthly repayment in June 2022  which had by 
now increased to £2,916.37 (not £4,000 as Mr P claims), was also returned unpaid. This brought the arrears to just over £4,150. So the evidence isnt persuasive that Mr and Mrs P 
would have been in a position to clear the January 2022 arrears on the account once Mr P 
first confirmed he was aware of them in mid-May 2022, given the further financial difficulties 
that arose the following month.
Therefore, in relation to the issue relating to changing the mortgage product, Im not 
persuaded Santander has done anything wrong. The account was in arrears at the time the 
product expired (albeit by only a month, but as I said above, the evidence isnt persuasive 
that Mr and Mrs P were in a position to clear the arrears). In the circumstances, I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong in relation to not offering a product switch.
Once the arrears have been paid off, Mr and Mrs P will be free to apply for a new product 
switch. But there is no basis on which I can fairly or reasonably find that Santander should 
offer one whilst the arrears remain on the account.
Im satisfied that Santanders customer service should have been better, and Im glad the 
bank has accepted this. Mr P was given the run-around trying to speak to someone at 
Santander, and the bank should have called him back when requested. Santander has 
agreed to pay the investigators recommended compensation of £150, in addition to the £50 
already paid by Santander. I think this is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the 
circumstances and Im not ordering Santander to do anything further.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs P were hoping for. I can see from what Mr P has 
said that he and Mrs P are facing financial hardship and potential bankruptcy. It might help 
them to take some advice from one of the free advice agencies such as StepChange, 
Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide contact information for those agencies, if 
Mr and Mrs P would like us to.
Putting things right
In addition to the £50 already paid, Santander UK Plc must pay Mr and Mrs P £150 
compensation (making a total of £200) for distress and inconvenience. I make no other order 
or award.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Santander UK Plc to pay the compensation directed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman