DRN-3747208
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined to pay the 
full cost of a claim for damage to a wall caused by a storm, under his home buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr Ds boundary wall in his garden collapsed during a storm. He made a 
claim to LV and was asked to have a builder assess the damage and to provide a quote. Mr 
D provided this information to LV and also arranged for its subsequent questions to be 
answered by his builder. In addition, he sent photos of the damaged wall. 
Mr D says LV then sent someone to inspect the damage. He says he was told his claim 
would be declined because there had been ivy on the wall, which had damaged it. Mr D 
challenged the decision and LV then said it would pay 50% of the repair cost. But Mr D says 
this was for a wall that didnt meet current building regulations or safety standards. 
Mr D says he is concerned about whether the man sent to assess the wall is qualified to 
make this assessment. He obtained a report from a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) surveyor to comment on the reason given to decline the claim. The surveyor says ivy 
growth didnt damage the wall - it was the storm force winds that blew it over. Mr D says this 
shows the reason given for the initial decline wasnt fair and LV should pay the full cost of 
the claim. 
In addition, Mr D thought LV should pay the cost of temporary fencing as well as repairing 
the wall to current building regulation standards. 
LV says that whilst ivy wont cause damage to a structurally sound wall, as it uses aerial 
roots - the wall was not structurally sound. It says the mortar had de-bonded from the bricks 
causing the ivy to creep into the wall over a period of time. LV refers to Mr Ds builder saying 
the footings were incorrect for the wall, and a single skin wall wouldnt be strong enough for 
the height required. LV says this points to a workmanship issue that also means cover 
wouldnt be provided under Mr Ds policy. 
LV didnt change its offer and so Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She says LVs assessor was able to inspect the condition of the 
wall and took photographs. This showed open joints and gaps in the mortar where it had de-
bonded from the brick. Our investigator says Mr Ds surveyor didnt physically inspect the 
damage but based his report on information provided by Mr D. 
Our investigator was more persuaded by LVs view that the cause of the damage was that 
the mortar had deteriorated over time. She thought the storm had highlighted a pre-existing 
condition, rather than it being the underlying cause of the damage. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline the claim.
In its letter declining to cover the claim, LV says it had checked the weather data on the date 
the damage was reported by Mr D, and confirms storm conditions had occurred. I note the 
policy terms give a definition of storm force winds. But as there is no dispute from LV that 
storm conditions were experienced, I neednt consider this point further. So, the answer to 
question one is, yes, storm conditions were experienced. 
Mr D reported his garden wall as having fallen down during the storm. Ive seen the photos 
supplied showing the collapsed wall. I think its reasonable to accept this type of damage is 
consistent with that typically caused by a storm. 
The final question I must consider is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. 
In its decline letter LV says the damage to the brick wall has not been caused by the storm. 
It says from looking at images of the wall online, in 2009 it was covered in ivy, which has 
caused the mortar to perish. It says the damage to the wall is therefore pre-existing and not 
storm related. 
Ive read the report provided by the assessor that LV sent to inspect the damage. This 
highlights the ivy growth. It also says the wall is half a brick thick and 1.8 metres high with 
five, half brick pillars. The assessor refers to the mortar having, determinate over time. My 
understanding is that this should read, deteriorated over time. The assessor also refers to a 
neighbours wall having been built at the same time, and using the same method, but that 
this wall was still standing. 
Ive also read the surveyors report Mr D obtained. The surveyor is RICS registered and 
experienced in undertaking expert reports regarding building and structural matters. In the 
report the surveyor says he was asked to comment on LVs decline letter and the report from 
its assessor. 
The surveyor says the reasoning given by LV for declining the claim is that the wall was 
damaged by ivy and not the storm. But he says its impossible for ivy to exert a lateral force 
on a brick wall in order to knock it over. He says the storm force winds knocked the wall 
over. The surveyor says that generally ivy doesnt cause damage to masonry walls. It adheres to 
the exterior of the wall and takes its nutrients from roots at ground level. He says ivy can 
actually act to protect a wall from the weather, including from water and frost damage. He 
concludes his report to say LVs report is written in poor English using incorrect terms a 
member of the public might use. He says it lacks any credibility as to the opinions 
expressed.        
I can see that on further consideration of Mr Ds claim, LV decided to contribute 50% toward 
the cost of the repairs his builder had quoted for. However, in its subsequent complaint 
response in August 2022 it says that as the damage caused was of a gradual nature, it 
shouldve declined the claim in full. 
In its letter LV says it had previously focused its decline decision on the ivy being the main 
cause of the damage. It says whilst ivy wouldnt cause damage to a wall that is structurally 
sound  Mr Ds wall wasnt structurally sound. I note its reference to the bricks having de-
bonded from the mortar and that ivy had found a way in.  
Ive examined the photos that were taken of the wall. These show the parts of the wall that 
collapsed and the section that is still standing. I can some sections of the standing wall 
where the mortar looks to have deteriorated, and some gaps where mortar is missing. The 
part that has collapsed shows large sections of brick that have broken away cleanly from the 
mortar. I note LVs explanation that the bricks have de-bonded from the mortar, which 
supports the wall having been in a deteriorated state prior to the storm.
Having considered the expert report provided by Mr Ds surveyor, it does cast doubt on LVs 
view that ivy caused damage to the wall. Although I also note LVs point that the wall wasnt 
structurally sound which allowed the ivy to find a way through. But regardless of how it 
occurred, the wall is showing signs of deterioration, particularly the mortar. This is further 
supported by the sections of the brick that have come away cleanly from the mortar when 
the wall collapsed. I dont doubt that the storm force winds resulted in the wall being blown 
over. But a well-built wall in good condition should withstand the effects of storm force winds, 
such as those experienced in February 2022.    
I note Mr Ds builder says there were no signs of deterioration to the mortar. But I think the 
photos show otherwise.
LV also points to the comments provided by Mr Ds builder that the wall will need a new 
footing because the original footing is fractured. He also says the wall will need to be a 
double skin thickness as a single skin wall of this height wont be strong enough, with the 
weather we are getting lately.       
LV says this points to the wall not having been to a good standard. It says poor workmanship 
isnt a cause that is covered by Mr Ds policy. 
Ive read Mr Ds policy terms to understand what is covered and what isnt. On page two of 
the policy booklet it says:
This policy covered the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not over:
wear and tear;
damage that happens over a period of time for example damp, rot and damage from 
vermin.
Under the heading, What is not covered the terms also say:Under this policy we will not pay for:
Defects and faults: Any direct loss or damage arising from defective design, defective 
materials, faulty materials, faulty workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers 
instructions.
Mr D says his builder flatly refused to build a single skin wall. He only quoted for a single 
skinned wall with pillars because this is what LV had originally requested. Mr D says the 
50% contribution LV offered was based on a single skin wall. This wasnt to build a wall that 
will meet current building and safety standards. 
LV says there are no regulations with respect to non-retaining boundary walls, albeit there is 
guidance to show best practice. Ive looked at the guidance available online, which indicates 
a 1.8m high wall needs to be greater than  brick thick. Albeit it also says for very sheltered 
situations where piers have been used, taller walls may be acceptable. 
Having considered all of this Im more persuaded by LVs argument that the wall was in a 
deteriorated state prior to the storm. And its this that was the underlying cause of the 
collapse. As above, the terms exclude wear and tear and damage that occurs over time. Its 
also indicated by Mr Ds builder that the design of the wall didnt provide sufficient strength  
given he wouldnt agree to re-build as a single skin wall. The implication being that faulty 
workmanship/defective design also contributed to the walls collapse. This cause is 
specifically excluded from the policy terms, which LV has also highlighted. 
LV has offered a 50% contribution toward the quote Mr D provided. It also agreed to cover 
half the cost of temporary fencing and to pay £50 compensation due to a mistake when 
calculating this payment.
In summary I think LV has behaved fairly and reasonably when relying on its policy terms 
that show the claim shouldve been declined for the reasons it gave. I think its fair that its 
maintaining its offer, but I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman