DRN-1147062
 
The complaint
Mr S says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), 
irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says the lending was unaffordable as he was already 
struggling to repay his current outgoings. He has told us that MoneyBoat didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr S between 
December 2017 and July 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 13/12/2017 05/03/2018 4 £200.00
2 05/03/2018 25/06/2018 4 £200.00
3 02/07/2018 Outstanding 3 £200.00
 
The first of our adjudicators who considered Mr Ss complaint partially upheld it. They 
thought Moneyboats own credit searches showed that between loans two and three Mr Ss 
financial circumstances had deteriorated and it shouldnt have given him loan three. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree and asked for the case to passed to an ombudsman for decision. In 
the meantime, the case was reviewed again, and the second adjudicator thought that loans 
two and three should be upheld as again, there was sufficient evidence from MoneyBoats 
own credit checks to show that loan two onwards shouldnt have been given.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the second adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr S had with MoneyBoat. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
MoneyBoat has given us the details it recorded about Mr Ss income and expenditure when 
he applied for all of his loans. When Mr S applied for loan two his monthly income was 
recorded as being £2,950 and his expenditure was £2,602 (which included a buffer of £1,007 
added by MoneyBoat). This left Mr S with a disposable income of £348. The monthly 
repayments for loan two were between £39 and £61. So, on the face of it the borrowing 
looked affordable for Mr S on a pounds and pence basis. But MoneyBoat has also provided us with a copy of the credit report it obtained at the point 
of Mr Ss application for loan two. And when compared to the credit report for loan one, its 
clear that Mr Ss financial circumstances had worsened. He had two advances with other 
credit providers, eight unsecured loans plus credit cards. His outstanding credit had also 
increased. So, Mr S was having problems managing his money and his financial 
circumstances had further deteriorated since taking loan one. And I note Mr S applied for 
loan two the day he had paid off loan one.
MoneyBoat has told us that its unrealistic to check a customers financial circumstances in 
such depth at the early stages of a borrowing relationship. But MoneyBoat already had that 
information about Mr Ss financial circumstances. And so I think it should have used the 
information it did have when considering whether it should lend to Mr S. The evidence given 
in the credit report, when taking into account his other financial commitments, suggest the 
lending was unaffordable and unsustainable for him and I think MoneyBoat should have 
taken account of this and not provided Mr S with any further loans from loan two onwards. 
So, like the second adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans two and three 
and MoneyBoat should put things right.
I see from the case file that we recently received an offer from MoneyBoat. It said that while 
it didnt agree with the outcome it would be willing to accept what the adjudicator said. But it 
included the caveat that Mr S was to set up a payment plan to clear the remaining balance 
outstanding after redress within six months. 
This caveat is a potentially restrictive clause that might not necessarily be fair to Mr S, so I 
dont agree with it. I have outlined below what MoneyBoat should do to put things right. And 
have also addressed what it should do about the outstanding balance. 
Putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ss loan three has been transferred to a third party 
MoneyBoat should buy the loan back if it can. If MoneyBoat cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans two 
and three.                                                                                                                              
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr S still has an outstanding balance due, then MoneyBoat should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr S in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman