DRN-4004928
The complaint
Mr F says his finance agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (who Ill 
call VWFS) isnt legally enforceable. He says hes been making payments to the wrong 
company and that he wants them back. He also feels that VWFS have been wrong to report 
adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Fs health challenges and I know this decision will disappoint 
him, but I am not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr F says VWFS have no capacity or right to enforce the agreement but thats a matter for 
the courts to decide and not something our service can consider.
I can see that Mr F signed the finance agreement with VWFS and their solicitors have 
explained that VWFSs rights and obligations under the contract have not been sold to or 
passed on to anyone else. 
Ive not seen any evidence therefore that Mr F has made payments to the wrong company. 
Hes been making payments to VWFS with whom he signed the finance agreement. The 
statement of account shows the account is in significant arrears and that a default notice has 
already been served.
In those circumstances I dont think VWFS are being unreasonable pursuing the debt.
VWFS have an obligation to report activity on the account accurately to the credit reference 
agencies. The statement of account shows there have been several missed payments and I 
dont therefore think the business have been wrong to report those. Im not therefore asking 
for them to be removed.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman