DRN-3947680
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the drop in value of his pension over the course of just a few 
days. He feels The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) hasnt adhered to its 
30-day guarantee period in relation to the pensions value.
What happened
Mr D held a Prudential Retirement Annuity Plan since 1982 into which he made regular 
premium payments.
He has said that when he checked the value of his pension on 31 August 2022 it was at 
around £90,000. However, by 5 September 2022 it had dropped to just over £82,000.
Mr D queried this via telephone with Prudential on 6 September 2022 when it was explained 
to him that the drop in value was due to the change in annuity rates Prudential had 
implemented on 5 September 2022 brought on by the increase in interest rates.
Mr D explained to Prudential that he thought the policy was untouchable, and no changes 
should have been applied to it. He stated the policy was risk free and not subject to market 
changes. And if he thought this wasnt the situation, he wouldnt have continued with it for all 
these years.
When Prudential looked into the complaint it was satisfied that the policy, despite being an 
old long standing one, was subject to the change in the annuity rates and this had been 
applied correctly. It also explained the reduction in the cash claims on these types of policies 
had affected a number of its customers.
Unhappy with Prudentials response Mr D brought his complaint to this service where it was 
assessed by one of our investigators. She was satisfied that Prudential had correctly applied 
the change. She also found that the 30-day guarantee value only applied from the point the 
policy was deemed to have been claimed which Mr D hadnt done at the point he had 
brought his complaint to us.
Mr D didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that the valuation of 
£90,000 that he saw at the end of August was an offer to him that Prudential should fulfil.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
There is no question whether the policy had a value of £90,000 on 31 August 2022.
The issue for me to consider is whether that online value was effectively a locked-in value 
and whether it should have remained in place for 30 days.
It is normal business practice for a pension policys value to be frozen or crystallised at the 
point the policyholder confirms they want to claim the policy, i.e. start to draw on their 
pension. Any other values of the policy up to this point are only indications. It would be 
nonsensical if any value of a policy at any point in time would constitute a locked in value or 
a crystallised value without confirmation that a claim was to be initiated. It therefore follows 
that if a policy remains in place and invested  which all pension policies are  it would 
continue to be subject to market fluctuations until a claim is started.
I think this would have been common knowledge so I think its reasonable that Mr D would 
have known this. Also, the online page where Mr D would have seen the value doesnt state 
anywhere that the values were guaranteed. In fact, it was stated at the bottom of the online 
page under the heading of Important Information that the values were not guaranteed.
I therefore think it stands to reason that Mr D should have read it and had he done so he 
would have seen the values werent guaranteed at that stage.
In my view Prudential made it clear the value wasnt guaranteed and the terms and 
conditions of the policy would have also explained that the value would only be guaranteed 
for 30 days from the point a claim was initiated.
The only way to freeze the value of the policy was for Mr D to inform Prudential via 
telephone or in writing that he wanted to start taking his pension monies. There was no 
facility to do this online so I cant accept that Mr D was mistaken into thinking that he had 
started the process online.
So overall I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong in not using the value of £90,000 
as the crystallised value of the pension from which to take the annuity. This is because the 
value of £90,000 simply wasnt what the policy was worth on the days after Mr D saw the 
£90,000.
I have also considered whether the reason for the drop in value was a legitimate one.
Prudential has said that when interest rates increased significantly it felt the need to increase 
the annuity rate used to convert guaranteed pension values into cash claims.
This resulted in reduction of around 11% in the value of the cash clams and this affected the 
majority of its customers.
While I appreciate this is disappointing this was a commercial decision that Prudential made 
and this service cannot challenge that. Also, its worth noting that Prudential wasnt the only 
financial business to have taken such action around the same time.
I know Mr D seems to think that the change in the annuity rate shouldnt have been applied 
to his pension policy. But he hasnt provided a clear explanation of why this would be other 
than the policy was an old one. From the little information that has been provided about the 
policy I can see it was an annuity plan invested under a with profits basis. So, the value of 
the plan was always going to be subject to market fluctuations until it was claimed. So, 
despite what Mr D thinks any changes such as those that occurred in 2022 were always 
going to affect his plan.
Therefore, I am satisfied that Prudential has acted correctly in applying the change in annuity 
rates to Mr Ds pensions. And I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman