DRN-3136065
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited. He isnt happy about the   
way it dealt with the cancellation of his commercial motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr A took out a commercial motor insurance policy through his broker, Bollington. He chose 
to cancel the policy as his work as a delivery driver had dried up during the pandemic and he 
was expecting a refund of his premium. However, he wasnt happy that he didnt get the 
refund he expected, that he owed money and wasnt told how his policy worked when he 
cancelled his policy. So, he complained to Bollington about this.
Bollington accepted that it didnt make it clear to Mr A that he wouldnt get the refund he 
expected and that there might be an outstanding balance. And so it refunded its commission, 
about £75, by way of compensation. But Mr A still wasnt happy as he thought it should 
refund all his outstanding premium, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
accepted that Bollington shouldve reminded Mr A that he wouldnt get the refund he 
expected and that he was likely to owe some of the outstanding premium when he looked to 
cancel the policy, she thought its offer to refund some of its commission was fair. She 
explained that Bollington had made it clear how the policy worked when Mr A took the policy 
out. And that Bollington wasnt responsible for the cost of the premium which was a matter 
for the insurer.
As Mr A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im presently minded to 
partly uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Bollington has accepted that it should have advised Mr A that he wouldnt get the refund he 
expected and that there was likely to be an outstanding balance when he looked to cancel, 
which is why it offered Mr A a refund of its commission. But I dont think that goes far enough 
or leaves Mr A with a clear breakdown of the costs he incurred.
While I accept that the policy documentation explained how Mr As policy worked upon 
cancellation I agree that Bollington should have made it clear that he wouldnt get a full 
refund and may owe some outstanding premium. In the event of cancelation Mr As policy 
used what is known as short term rates (STR) which staggers the portion of refund due 
under the policy throughout the year and this was explained in the policy documentation. 
There is a table that clearly shows the level of premium that will be returned during the life of 
the policy. And the table shows that Mr A would have had to pay around 80% of his 
premium.
Mr A hasnt been provided with a clear breakdown of what he has paid to date and a clear 
explanation as to why he owes any further money and why. So I can understand why he is 
asking what the premium he has paid to date has been used for. But Bollingtons can clarify 
this for Mr A and give a clear breakdown in response to my provisional decision so both 
sides are clear about this.
Mr As policy was set up using finance. I know he says that he wasnt aware of this either, 
but I think it is clear from the policy documentation that he was sent that this was the case. 
Bollingtons have also provided a screen shot of its scripts explaining this, so Im satisfied 
that Mr A knew that his policy was set up this way.
I know Mr A says that he would have kept the policy on if he realised that he wouldnt get a 
full refund. But I cant be sure about this as he would have incurred significant running costs 
for his vehicle in taking this path. However, I do accept that his choice was limited here and 
feel that he should be awarded an additional £100 compensation. I say this as Bollingtons 
has clearly acknowledged its failing here and caused Mr A inconvenience.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Bollingtons to pay Mr A £100 compensation in addition to waiving its 
commission. And to provide a clear breakdown to Mr A (in response to this provisional 
decision) about what he has paid to date for the policy and what he now owes so that his 
position is clear.
Replies and developments
Neither side responded to my provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides didnt respond or comment on my provisional decision I dont propose to go 
over the arguments and case again. And having reconsidered the matter again in full Im still 
minded to partly uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision. 
So, I still think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Bollingtons to pay Mr A £100 compensation in addition to waiving its 
commission. I asked Bollington to provide a clear breakdown to Mr A about what he has paid 
for the policy to date and to explain what he now owes so that his position his clear in 
response to my provisional decision. As it hasnt responded Ill simply leave it to do that now.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Bollington 
Insurance Brokers to pay Mr A £100 compensation in addition to waiving its commission. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman