DRN-3389800
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC applied a Cifas marker against his name.
What happened
Mr G held an account with Lloyds. In August 2020, Lloyds received reports from a third-party 
bank that four payments were attempted to Mr Gs account which werent authorised by the 
account holder. None of the payments were successful in reaching Mr Gs account.
Due to the information received, Lloyds decided to place blocks on Mr Gs account. Mr G 
contacted Lloyds and confirmed he wasnt expecting the funds into his account. He also 
confirmed that no one else had access to his account and that he was still in possession of 
his bank card.
Lloyds decided to close Mr Gs accountproviding 65 days noticeand loaded a Cifas 
marker against his name for misusing his banking facility.
Mr G discovered the marker after it began to impact his other financial accounts. So, he 
complained about the marker and asked Lloyds to remove it.
Lloyds looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said Mr G was logging into his 
account regularly around the dates the payments were attempted. It also pointed out that it 
would be highly unlikely for a fraudster to credit Mr Gs account with the stolen funds if they 
could later access them.
Mr G remained unhappy with the outcome. He maintained that he knew nothing about the 
attempted credits into his account and highlighted that the marker was having a significant 
impact on him.
An Investigator at our service looked into the evidence provided by both parties and 
concluded that the Cifas marker wasnt applied correctly. They pointed out that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to corroborative Mr Gs involvement in the criminal activity reported. He 
also highlighted that Mr G didnt seem to login to his account anymore than he normally did 
on the day of the transfers. They recommended that Lloyds remove the marker and pay 
£500 in compensation for the impact caused.
Lloyds accepted the recommendations set out in the Investigators assessment. But Mr G 
felt that the compensation recommended didnt fully reflect the impact caused. As Mr G 
didnt accept the Investigators findings, the matter has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to remove the Cifas marker held against Mr Gs name. So, its no longer 
necessary for me to comment on this issue. But Mr G says that the impact caused to him by 
the marker was significant. He therefore wants a higher compensation award to reflect this.
Mr G has provided a number of examples of how he was impacted by the marker. Some of 
these include:
Refusal of a bounce back loan for his business
Closure of a number of financial accounts
Refusal of financial applications
Personal circumstances such as accommodation and credit score
Firstly, I think its important to acknowledge that the impact of a Cifas marker can be 
significant. But even despite this, calculating the impact can be a complex and difficult task.
While Cifas markers can be taken into consideration when closing an account or refusing an 
application, it is the responsibility of the business taking this action to ensure that the marker 
is applied accurately prior to considering it in any decision.
I must also consider that while businesses may cite a Cifas marker as a reason for the action 
its taken, it cant be guaranteed that this was the sole reason, or if the application would 
have been declined for another reason; even if the Cifas marker wasnt present.
Here, Mr G can confidently evidence a number of applications being declined, and on some, 
this has specifically given the Cifas marker as a reason. Its also clear that number of 
accounts were closed soon after the application of the marker. So, Im persuaded that there 
was clearly an impact caused by the marker here. But I dont think Lloyds can be held 
responsible for all of the declined applications. Mr G did have other adverse information 
recorded on his credit file that impacted his credit score. And while Mr G says that these 
other adverse markers were also a result of the Cifas marker, Im not persuaded that they 
were. These were due to non-payment of credit which cant be attributed to a fraud marker.
So, while I acknowledge that the marker has clearly has an impact on Mr G, I dont find that 
it can wholly be attributed to Lloyds error of applying the marker.
Mr G has also highlighted on a number of occasions that the marker impacted his ability to 
obtain a bounce back loan. However, Mr G hasnt been able to evidence any consequential 
loss to his business as a result of the declined application. And it would be unfair for this 
service to direct a business to pay for a loss that cant be supported by evidence.
The £500 recommended in the Investigators assessment for the impact caused falls into our 
fourth highest bracket for distress and inconvenience caused. We typically award 
compensation of this amount where the impact of an error causes considerable distress, 
upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra 
effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months, but it could also be 
fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious short-term impact.
I find that the Cifas marker did cause Mr G significant inconvenience and disruption. And I 
also find that the error caused this over an extended period of time that exacerbated his 
upset and worry about his financial situation. As such, I find the £500 recommended to be 
fair in the circumstances.
I realise Mr G is unhappy with this sum, but I dont find it reasonable to award further 
compensation for consequential losses he cannot evidence. However, he was significantly 
impacted by the marker, and I think the £500 recommended is a fair reflection of this. Putting things right
Lloyds has already confirmed that the Cifas marker has been removed. Mr G has also 
verified this in correspondence to our service.
Lloyds should now go ahead and pay Mr G £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the marker being placed against his name.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mr G £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman