DRN-2625053
The complaint
Mr B complains about problems with credit cards sent by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr B experienced problems with his Halifax credit card. Mr B has explained the card 
stopped working so he contacted Halifax. After investigating, Halifax found an issue with his 
account and arranged for a new one to be set up for him, with a replacement card being 
sent. 
Around nine months later, Mr B contacted Halifax again to report problems using his card. 
Mr B has explained that the cards stop working so couldnt be used to make chip and pin 
payments. Halifax sent Mr B a replacement but he experienced further problems making 
payments. Halifax has sent Mr B several replacement cards, but he has continued to have 
problems making payments. 
Halifax says it investigated the ongoing problems Mr B experienced with his cards not 
working but hasnt found a cause. Halifax says its IT and technical teams cant say why 
cards have stopped working and theres no record of the transactions Mr B was attempting 
to make. Halifax has suggested the cards have become damaged which caused the issues 
Mr B has reported. 
Mr B complained but Halifax says its been unable to find an error that causes his cards to 
stop working. Halifax has confirmed it isnt stopping the transactions Mr B tries to make. 
Halifax issued a replacement card to Mr B shortly after it responded to his complaint and I 
understand it has worked since that time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Halifax had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr B asked to appeal and reiterated that the problems with his card match the 
issues raised in 2019, that Halifax resolved by changing his account. As Mr B asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is frustrated by the situation. Hes told us his other cards with a 
chip havent stopped working like the Halifax credit cards. And Mr B has pointed out that in 
2019 Halifax was able to resolve the problem by changing his account. I dont doubt that 
theres nothing specific Mr B has found that identifies what is causing the problems hes 
experienced. But I also have to take the information Halifax has sent us into account when 
reaching my decision. 
Halifax has confirmed the problems with the card identified last year are different to the ones 
Mr B raised in 2019. Halifax resolved the earlier problem after if found an issue with the way 
Mr Bs credit card account had been set up. So it opened another account for Mr B and 
issued a new card. But Halifaxs IT and technical teams havent found a similar issue with 
the replacement account and say the problems Mr B has experienced arent the same. 
Halifax has confirmed that the fix it used in 2019 wont work to resolve the card problems Mr 
B has subsequently reported. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Halifax and Im satisfied it hasnt declined the 
payments Mr B attempted. Im also satisfied its been unable to find a problem with his cards 
or why they stopped working. Whilst I understand Mr B has had to request several 
replacement cards, I havent found anything to show Halifax is causing the issue that stops 
them working. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but as I havent found that Halifax has made an error or treated 
him unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman