DRN-3623141
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Prisma Dealers Ltd dealt with foreign payment transactions.
What happened
Mrs G says she made two transfers to her foreign account for £2,000 and £3,000 using 
Prisma. She says the first transaction was eventually received in the intended account in 
November 2021, but the second payment hasnt been received. Mrs G would like her money 
refunded and says Prisma has refused to speak to her.
Prisma says the first payment was made on 8 November 2021 and the second on 23 
November 2021. It accepts the amounts Mrs G wished to transfer of £2,000 and £3,000. 
Prisma says the order was blocked abroad due to compliance problems and it needed 
documents from Mrs G.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought it clear the money was paid to Prisma and the first payment was made. 
But only part of the second payment was made by Prisma. The investigator didnt think 
Prisma had provided any evidence of a request for information from Mrs G and 
recommended the balance of the payment be refunded to her with 8% simple interest added 
from 1 November 2021 until payment.
Prisma hasnt replied to the investigators view or provided any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar view to that of the investigator.
I have looked carefully at Prismas limited records that it has provided us with as well as the 
receipts Mrs G has provided. There is no dispute here, as both parties accept, the intended 
payments were £2,000 and £3,000. But I can see from Prismas records and from Mrs Gs 
bank statement abroad that not all of the £3,000 was transferred. Im satisfied that Prisma 
was responsible for transferring the full £3,000 and didnt do so. I appreciate Prisma says the 
block was applied abroad but I cant see any evidence that it ever sent the full amount. And I 
have not seen any evidence that the payment in part was held pending further checks 
abroad. Prismas records appear to show only part of the second payment was made.
I accept that Prisma must comply with its regulatory duties which can include on occasions 
requesting further information from its customers. But I have not seen any evidence that 
Prisma ever made such requests or what they may have related to.
Im satisfied that Mrs G made the two transfers in good faith and relied on Prisma to make 
both transfers to her foreign account. I am also satisfied that some of the money was 
transferred but the second payment appears to have been about £2,000 less than it ought to 
have been. No doubt Prisma will know the exact amount. I dont think Prisma has explained 
what took place or has provided us with an explanation about the retention of some of the 
money or why.
Putting things right
It follows that Prisma should refund the money to Mrs G which I have said is about £2,000. 
And I accept Mrs G has been without her money since about November 2021. Prisma 
should pay 8% simple interest on that refund until the payment is made to Mrs G from 1 
November 2021. If His Majestys Revenue and Customs require any taxation be deducted 
from that refund, then it should provide Mrs G with a certificate showing that deduction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Prisma Dealers Ltd to refund Mrs 
G the balance of the payment as set out above and order it to pay interest on it as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman