DRN-3881466
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn No.1 Ltd, trading as Moneybarn. 
What happened
In July 2021 Miss T entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used 
car. At the time the car was just over seven years old, with a recorded mileage of 52,437. 
The cash price was £7,795. 
Miss T told us that she had problems with the car in September 2021, when the windows got 
stuck open because the electronics in the cabin werent working properly. She said a local 
garage fixed this issue, and that the cost of the repair was covered under warranty. 
Miss T said she discovered further issues with the car in February 2022  and that shed had 
to pay for repairs every month since then. She provided evidence showing the following 
payments:
 £505.70 to a garage in February 2022
 £209.83 to a recovery company in April 2022,
 £667.43 to a garage in May 2022,
 £244.72 to a garage in August 2022,
 £533 to a cambelt centre on 2 September 2022,
 £79.99 to a parts supplier on 16 September 2022,
 £99.00 to a garage on 21 September 2022.
Miss T told us that, after carrying out a repair on 21 September 2022, the garage gave her a 
health check report saying the car would also need around £2,500 worth of other work - 
although this wouldnt need to be done immediately. She said she had to take the car back 
to the garage the next day because it went into limp mode again  and that shed been 
quoted around £1,800 to fix the problem. 
Miss T complained to Moneybarn that shed spent close to £2,000 on recovery and repairs to 
the car, and that it still needed around £4,500 worth of work. Moneybarn didnt uphold Miss 
Ts complaint, so she asked us to look into what had happened.
Our investigator said he wasnt persuaded that thered been a fault with the car in 
September 2021. And even if there was a fault at that time, he was satisfied that it hadnt 
resulted in any extra cost for Miss T. 
The investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence confirming the issue with the DPF was 
present when the car was supplied to Miss T - or that it was linked to a potential problem in 
September 2021. As shed had around seven months and 7,000 miles use of the car before 
this problem came to light, he thought it was likely to be due to normal wear and tear. 
Miss T asked for an ombudsman to review things again, so the case was passed to me for a 
decision. Having reviewed the evidence, I wrote to both parties setting out my initial 
thoughts. I said that, based on the evidence Id seen, I wasnt thinking of upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like 
me to consider. 
Miss T responded, saying she was led to believe the car would have a full service before she 
collected it. She said a full service hadnt been carried out, so Moneybarn couldnt be 
confident the car was fit for purpose when it was supplied to her. She provided a photo of the 
relevant section of the service booklet.
Miss T said all the issues shed experienced have related to the exhaust system - and that 
this shows theres been a systematic failure. She said the repairs shed had constitute a 
rebuild of the whole system. 
Miss T said typically its good practice to change a DPF at 100,000 miles, although 
manufacturers recommendations vary. She feels strongly that the fact that this car needed a 
new one at 60,000 miles suggests it wasnt fit for purpose when it was sold. 
Moneybarn made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ts complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. It explains that things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over seven years old and had covered 
around 52,437 miles when it was supplied to Miss T. It cost £7,795, which is significantly 
less than it wouldve cost when it was new. Given its age and mileage, I think a buyer would 
expect some parts of this car to have suffered some wear and tear. But I think theyd expect 
it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to 
drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Ive considered each of the issues Miss T has told us about, to decide whether I think this 
shows the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
Window issue  September 2021Miss T has told us that a problem with the cars electronics was repaired in September 2021, 
after she complained to the dealer that the windows had got stuck. She says this fell within 
the warranty period and her consumer rights under the CRA, because it happened within six 
months of getting the car. 
Ive seen a copy of the invoice Miss T obtained from the garage, dated 2 September 2021. It 
says:
Investigate window fault carry out diagnostics test and battery reset relearn windows.
The invoice shows the garage charged £40 plus VAT for labour. Its not clear to me whether 
that charge was just for diagnostic testing, or if a fault was found and repaired. 
In the absence of further evidence about this, Im unable to say whether the windows got 
stuck due to a fault that needed to be repaired. But if a repair was carried out, the relatively 
low charge shown on the garages invoice suggests this was a fairly simple issue to fix. And 
Im pleased to see that any work was carried out without charge for Miss T.
I havent seen anything to suggest Miss T raised any other issues with the car in September 
2021. And I think the repair to the window issue was likely to have been successful because 
Ive seen nothing to suggest she had any more problems with them getting stuck again. So, I 
wouldnt expect Moneybarn to do anything more here. 
DPF filter and sensor issues  February 2022
Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 11 February 2022, showing Miss T paid a total for 
£505.70 for the following work:
Carry out diagnostics test and regen the DPF filter and supply and fit both DPF temp 
sensors.
The invoice records the cars mileage to have been 59,568 at that time. 
I haven't seen any evidence suggesting the issue with the DPF or sensors came to light 
before February 2022. Nor have I seen anything to suggest this was linked to the problem 
that was investigated and/or repaired under the warranty in September 2021. 
By February 2022 Miss T had been using the car for around seven months, during which 
time it had covered over 7,000 miles. I bear in mind it would then have been almost eight 
years old, and that it had covered almost 60,000 miles. I do think some repairs and 
maintenance are to be expected of a car of that age and mileage.  
Miss T says a DPF should last around 100,000 miles. She feels the fact that she had 
problems with it after 60,000 miles shows the car wasnt fit for purpose when it was supplied 
to her. But Im not persuaded of this, because Im aware that the life expectancy of a DPF 
will very much depend on the way a car is driven and maintained. 
The DPF is a filter that traps harmful particles to reduce emissions from diesel cars. The 
trapped soot periodically has to be emptied or burned off to prevent the filter becoming 
clogged up. If a car is regularly run at speed on long motorway journeys, the exhaust 
reaches a high enough temperature to cleanly burn off the excess soot in the filter. But if the 
same car is mainly used for slow stop-start driving about town, the DPF may become 
blocked. 
Miss T feels Moneybarn couldnt be sure the car was fit for purpose when it was supplied to 
her, because it wasnt fully serviced before it was sold. When thinking about this, I bear in mind theres no obligation on a business to service a car before its supplied, unless this is 
something theyve specifically advertised or promised. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence showing Miss T was promised the car would be fully 
serviced before she collected it. Ive reviewed the image of the service booklet, which shows 
it had a main service at 50,722 miles  which is only around 1,700 miles less than the 
recorded mileage when the car was supplied to Miss T. So, I wouldnt expect Moneybarn to 
have done anything different here. 
Having thought about all of this, Im not persuaded that the repair in February 2022 was 
needed due to a fault that was already present or developing when Miss T got the car. I find 
it most likely that this was due to wear and tear. So, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn 
should cover the cost of this work.
Other costs  April to September 2022
Miss T told us that she spent close to £2,000 on recovery costs and repairs to the car within 
15 months of getting it. She provided screenshots showing the following payments:
£209.83 to a recovery company on 17 April 2022,
£667.43 to a garage on 11 May 2022,
£244.72 to a garage on 22 August 2022,
£533 to a cambelt centre on 2 September 2022.
Ive seen no evidence to show what these payments were for, so Ive been unable to 
consider them.
Exhaust / DPF issues  September to October 2022
Ive seen a copy of a receipt from a parts company, dated 16 September 2022, for an 
exhaust pressure sensor costing £79.99. Ive seen no evidence as to why this was needed, 
whether it was fitted to the car, or by whom. 
Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 21 September 2022, which records the cars mileage to 
have been 67,519 at that time. It shows Miss T was charged £99 for the following work:
investigated service light on in dash, fault code P2453 present. Exhaust differential 
pressures sensor implausible signal. Carried out re-learn procedure due to new part fitted 
previously customer to monitor.
Miss T says she had to take the car back to the garage the next day because it went into 
limp mode again. Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 12 October 2022, at which time the 
car was recorded to have travelled 67,549 miles. This shows the garage replaced dpf and 
carried out regen, for which Miss T was charged £1,797.19.
I bear in mind that Miss T had around 14 months and 15,000 miles use of the car by the 
time these repairs were carried out. Ive seen no evidence to show this work was required 
due to a fault that was present or developing when she got the car. So, I dont consider 
Moneybarn to be liable for these costs. 
Miss T feels the fact that shes had to have the whole exhaust system replaced shows there 
was a problem with it from the outset. Im not persuaded of this - Ive seen nothing to show 
these repairs were needed due to an underlying issue that was present when the car was 
supplied to her. So, this doesnt change my decision.Further work advised
Ive seen screenshots of the health check inspection Miss T received after the car went to 
the garage on 21 September 2022. It advised her the following things will require action in 
the near future:
Front brake pads  50% worn
Front brake discs lipped
Front tyres - between 3.5mm and 3.8mm
Bolt missing from A/C compressor
Humming noise from A/C compressor evident in cabin with engine idling.
Ive seen evidence showing the car had travelled over 15,000 miles in the 14 month period 
since it was supplied to Miss T. Tyres, brake discs and brake pads are items which need to 
be replaced periodically due to normal wear and tear. So, I dont consider it unusual for the 
health check to suggest these items would be likely to need replacing in the near future. 
Moneybarn wouldnt be liable for this cost. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the air conditioning compressor had stopped working. And 
even if it had, I havent seen anything to suggest this was due to a problem that was 
developing when Miss T got the car. So, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn are liable for the 
cost of any work that might be needed to the air conditioning compressor in the near future. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman