DRN-3027320
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that 60-day promotional offer on his MBNA Limited credit card account 
started from the date that the account was opened and not the date that he received the 
credit card.
What happened
Mr M opened an MBNA credit account which included a 60-day promotional period where 
purchases made during that period wouldnt attract interest for 26 months. Mr M made a 
significant purchase on his card shortly before the date that he believed the 60-day 
promotional offer would end  which was 60 days after he first received the credit card in the 
post. 
However, Mr M later discovered that the promotional period was calculated from the date 
that the account was opened, which meant that the significant purchase that hed made was 
considered as being outside of that promotional period and was attracting interest. Mr M 
wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
MBNA looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they confirmed that the 60-day promotional period 
began on the day that the account was opened, and that this meant that the purchase that 
Mr M had made fell outside of that period and so attracted interest at the standard rate. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they noted that the product literature 
associated with the account confirmed that the 60-day period began on the date that the 
account was opened, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr M to have discovered that the 
credit card purchase that hed made under the assumption that it wouldnt attract interest 
had in fact been made outside of the 60-day promotional period and so was attracting 
interest at the cards standard rate.
However, its clear to me that the relevant product literature does confirm that the start of the 
60-day promotional period was from the date of the account opening, rather than from the 
date that Mr M first received the card.
This includes the following statement on the credit agreement which was available to Mr M 
when he first opened the account:
0% p.a. fixed interest for the first 26 months from either your account opening or the 
date of your account transfer.
Furthermore, MBNA have demonstrated that when they sent the credit card to Mr M, they 
included the following message along with the card:
You will pay 0% p.a. fixed interest for 26 months on retail spend made in the first 60 
days from account opening.
As such, Im satisfied that MBNA did provide Mr M with sufficient notice that the 60-day 
promotional period started on the day that the account was opened, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr D was informed or led to believe that the 60-day promotional 
period would start on any other date.
It also must be noted that it would be very difficult for a company to effectively apply the start 
of any promotional period from the date that their customer received their credit card, 
because the company have no practical way of monitoring when their customers actually 
receive the cards that are sent to them.
Finally, it also must be noted that the fact that the purchase that Mr M made was accruing 
interest was available to Mr M via the account statements. And, while Mr M has stated that 
he didnt review his account statements because he was under the belief that no interest 
would be charged to the account and that as such there would be nothing on his account 
statements to review, this doesnt alter the fact that the responsibility for monitoring the 
balance of the account rested with Mr M.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that MBNA have acted in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing MBNA to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman