DRN-4329270
The complaint
Mrs D complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for her car 
following an accident which led to it being written off. 
Mrs D is represented by Mr D in this matter. For ease, Ive referred to Mrs D throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mrs D insured her car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. Mrs D was the policy 
holder and Mr D a named driver under the policy. 
In January 2023, Mrs D was involved in a car accident. The car was subsequently deemed 
the car to be a total loss. After communicating about the valuation and Mrs D raising a 
complaint, Admiral ultimately offered £4,353 to settle the claim, less the cost of pre accident 
damage of £50. 
Mrs D wasnt happy, so she complained about the valuation and service provided. Admiral 
didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint and paid Mrs D the amount it offered for the car plus 8% 
interest as it felt it shouldve sent this payment to Mrs D sooner even though the valuation 
wasnt accepted.
Mrs D brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. An Investigator at this 
service looked into matters and thought the offer made by Admiral was fair as it was within 
the range of values given by the motor trade guides used by this service and the engineers 
valuation. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She named two online car sellers who specify they dont offer 
negotiations on the listed price and therefore says this service should consider adverts as 
persuasive evidence of value. Further, Mrs D explains shes out of pocket by £3,000, doesnt 
have a car and has been put to significant inconvenience  all shes seeking is a value which 
gives her a like for like replacement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must explain to Mrs D I consider the Investigator reached a fair outcome in 
this matter. So, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything to put things right. 
It may be helpful to explain that my role isnt to give an exact value of Mrs Ds car. Instead, 
my role is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think it has. Ill explain why below. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle. The policy defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it has ultimately determined to be £4,353. Admiral referred to the trade guides to obtain 
a value for the car and an engineers report. The guides gave different figures, which isnt 
unusual. We use a similar approach and the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. And we generally find the valuations given in 
these guides to be most persuasive. 
I can see the motor trade guides used by Admiral were for cars of the same make, model, 
age, condition and mileage as Mrs Ds at the date of its loss. I also note the Investigator 
obtained two further motor trade guide valuations for Mrs Ds car. 
Taking all these guides and the engineers valuation together, I can see they range from 
£4,120 to £4,705. And Admirals offer was within this range of valuations. 
I am aware Mrs D says a similar car will cost an additional £3,000-£4,000 to replace and she 
refers to adverts found online in support of this which our service should consider. But I note 
the valuations obtained (including an engineers valuation) are similar. Im also aware of 
adverts Ive seen for similar vehicles, all of which are below or in the region of the amount 
offered to Mrs D. So, having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded the evidence 
shows Admirals offer wasnt a fair one.
In summary, Im satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mrs Ds car at the time 
directly before the loss was fair, according to the terms and conditions of the policy and our 
approach to complaints like this. It follows that I dont require Admiral to increase this.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but this ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Admiral about the valuation of her car  can do for her. 
As I am aware the Investigator has discussed with Mrs D, any other issues arising would 
need to be raised with Admiral (or the appropriate party), setting out the specific issue(s) 
complained about and giving it an opportunity to investigate the complaint in the first 
instance, if this hasnt already been done.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman