DRN-3557629
The complaint
Mr U complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) hasnt maintained his heating 
system causing it to break down, despite having paid for a power flush and having home 
emergency cover with it.
What happened
Mr U has HomeCare 4 with BG, which provides insurance cover for his boiler and heating 
system, along with kitchen appliance and home electrics cover. The policy includes an 
annual boiler service.
In 2011, Mr U paid £592 for a power flush on the advice of BG. BG provided the service with 
a lifetime guarantee as part of the homecare cover. Mr U called BG out on many occasions 
during the years after the flush because his radiators werent working, and he said he was 
without hot water. BG attended and tried various repairs, but repeatedly said the pipework 
was faulty and needed replacing. This service was not covered under Mr Us insurance 
policy.
Mr U complained to BG because hed paid for the power flush with a lifetime guarantee, but 
was now told it couldnt fix his heating system. BG offered Mr U a refund of the cost of the 
flush, but he refused because the replacement pipework would cost a lot more. He thought 
BG should refund to him the monthly payments hed made over the previous 11 years.
In addition to this, Mr U complained about the delays visiting his home, the customer service 
provided by BG, and the increase in his energy bill because he relied on electric heaters. 
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Us complaint. She said BG should refund the cost of the 
power flush and pay Mr U £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays dealing with his claims for his broken heating system. She also said BG should 
investigate again Mr Us complaint about its engineers. However, our investigator didnt think 
the evidence supported Mr Us complaint that BG failed to provide the service he paid for or 
that it was at fault for the breakdown of the heating system.
BG accepted the proposal to pay £150 compensation and confirmed that it had already 
offered a refund of the power flush cost. But it didnt think there was any benefit in 
reinvestigating issues it had already looked into.
Mr U didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. He repeated his complaint that 
BG hadnt provided the service he paid for, and he questioned why BG continued to take 
payment for his policy despite knowing it couldnt fix his heating system. Mr U asked again 
for a refund of all his policy payments.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to partly uphold 
Mr Us complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
My role here is to decide whether BG treated Mr U fairly when it handled his claims for 
repairs under the insurance policy. Theres a lot of information available to me: I wont 
comment on each piece and our rules dont require me to. Instead Ill look at the overall 
claim and reference the evidence which best explains the reasons for my provisional 
decision.
Heating system repairs
Mr U complains that BG failed to repair and maintain his heating system after paying for a 
power flush with a lifetime guarantee. BG says the issues were caused by an installation 
fault, which wasnt covered under the policy. It offered Mr U a refund of his power flush 
payment.
Theres no dispute that BG completed the flush in 2011 and that it came with a lifetime 
guarantee. However, the guarantee was only for the services covered under Mr Us policy. 
Ive looked at the expert evidence provided by BG, which says the plastic pipes used during 
installation caused corrosion leading to failure of the radiators and pumps. 
In the absence of any conflicting evidence, Im persuaded by BGs explanation for the fault. 
Turning to the policy, it says:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
existed when you first took out the product; 
weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been 
completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to 
a satisfactory standard;
we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, 
faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under 
concrete floors; or 
prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over
As the heating system installation was carried out before BG completed the power flush, Im 
satisfied that cover is excluded under this pre-existing fault condition.
This means the power flush would never have achieved what BG guaranteed, so I think it 
was fair and reasonable for BG to offer a refund. Although Mr U declined when BG first 
offered, I think its fair to repeat that offer.
To be clear, though, I dont consider this as evidence of BG failing to provide the service Mr 
U paid for. Ive looked at the records of BGs visits to Mr Us home. It tried to repair his 
heating system, and it advised Mr U on several occasions of the need to replace the pipes. I 
see BG even quoted to do the work in 2018, but Mr U didnt accept. Given that BG had 
made Mr U aware of the repairs needed, I cant reasonably hold BG responsible for the 
continued breakdown of Mr Us heating system.
Ongoing payment
Mr U says that BG shouldnt have continued to take monthly insurance payments from him, 
knowing it couldnt repair his heating system, BG says the policy provided cover for more 
than just the heating, and Mr U was free to amend his cover at any time.Ive looked at the policy Mr U bought and see it included cover for his boiler, controls and 
central heating, annual service, repairs to plumbing, drains and home electrics, and kitchen 
appliances. Again, looking at the record of visits to Mr Us home, I see that he used the 
service on several occasions under other parts of the cover, such as internal and external 
lighting, and shower electrics. Therefore, I cant reasonably say BG didnt provide the service 
he paid for.
For that reason, I wont be asking BG to refund the monthly payments to Mr U.
Customer service
Mr U complained that BG didnt attend an 8am appointment; it delayed carrying out power 
flushes; its engineers were rude; they broke his timer switch, and BG has caused him to 
incur higher energy costs. BG agreed there were some service shortfalls and accepted our 
investigators proposal to pay Mr U £150 compensation. But it didnt think there was any 
evidence that its engineers had acted inappropriately or caused damage.
Ive looked at the evidence regarding the appointment and see that BG offered Mr U an 
appointment between 8am and 6pm. While I accept Mr U may have understood that to be a 
firm 8am appointment, I dont think BG did anything wrong offering an appointment window.
BG looked into the behaviour of its engineers but didnt find any evidence of poor service. 
Taking one example, Mr U said one engineer told him to move to a new house and leave the 
heating faults to someone else to deal with. While I think its more likely than not that any 
such comment wouldve been made in humour, I accept Mr U didnt find it appropriate. 
Clearly, theres no evidence of this being said, and the same is true of the other issues Mr U 
reported, but I have no reason to doubt his recollection. However, there seems little benefit 
in asking BG to reinvestigate his complaints about its engineers because theres no new 
evidence to consider. BG has agreed to pay £150 compensation for service shortfalls, and 
Im satisfied thats a reasonable sum in the circumstances. I wont be asking BG to pay any 
more than that.
Additional energy charges
Finally, I note Mr U said hes paying more for his electricity because of his reliance on 
electric heaters. He also complains that BG increased his tariff. To be clear, British Gas 
Insurance Limited isnt responsible for the energy tariff Mr U pays. That is set by a separate 
energy company. While his overall electricity bill may have increased due to his use of 
electric heaters, I cant hold BG responsible for that. Thats because it told Mr U what he 
needed to do to repair his heating system, and he hasnt arranged for the replacement pipes. 
Overall, the evidence suggests that BG tried to repair Mr Us system under his homecare 
policy, but a pre-existing fault limited the cover available to him. Im satisfied that BG advised 
Mr U of the repairs needed and continued to provide the service for the remaining parts of 
the policy he paid for. BG made a fair offer to refund the power flush payment, even though it 
carried out the flush in good faith. But, in respect of the delays, and distress Mr U 
experienced when dealing with its engineers, Im minded to require BG to pay £150 
compensation.
I said I was intending to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
refund to Mr U his payment of £592 for the power flush, as previously offered, and
pay compensation of £150 to Mr U for the delays, and the distress he experienced 
during its engineers visits.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.While Mr U was disappointed, he accepted my provisional decision. BG didnt have anything 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has made any further 
submissions or provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr Us 
complaint and British Gas Insurance Limited must:
refund to Mr U his payment of £592 for the power flush, as previously offered, and
pay compensation of £150 to Mr U for the delays, and the distress he experienced 
during its engineers visits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman