DRN-3234300
The complaint
Mr L complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) for its decision to
decline his claim for a collapsed boundary wall at his home. He wants AA to cover the claim
and settle his losses.
What happened
Mr L has held AA home contents and buildings insurance since Summer 2020.
In early 2021, Storm Christoph hit the UK, bringing bad weather throughout the country.
On 24 January 2021, Mr Ls boundary wall collapsed.
Mr L lodged a claim with AA.
AA sent a surveyor to attend the property on 28 January 2021. He inspected the collapsed 
wall and prepared a report to the insurers. That report set out: 
..this is a double skin rubble filled stone wall with mortared pointing, the damage is to the 
outer skin of the wall and is believed to have fallen from the bottom up, indicating that the 
wall had a belly in it prior to falling down, it would appear rained water potentially could have 
been ingressing through failed cock and hen detail to the capping on the wall and over time 
this caused the bottom of the wall to collapse and in turn b[r]ought the rest of the outer skin 
of the wall with it, the cause is unknown by the PH or the neighbours, however the 
neighbours saw this happen during a period of snowfall and not rain, storm conditions were 
in affect prior to this however it appears to me to be an ongoing issue rather than a one off 
event causing the wall to come down.
The report concluded the proximate cause of the wall collapse was Natural breakdown of 
material, and also noted that nothing had hit the wall so there was no accidental damage 
peril.
Based on this view, AA declined Mr Ls claim.
Mr L complained to AA. He also commissioned his own engineers report on the wall. They 
inspected the wall on 24 February 2021 and produced a report.
The engineer commissioned by Mr L stated: 
In this case, we see records of exceptional weather conditions immediately preceding the 
failure, high volumes of rainfall followed by freezing conditions. Over many decades of 
investigating failures such as these, I have often found that failure is caused following the 
expansion of water turning to ice embedded within walls. Given the weather conditions 
experienced at the time, this is the most logical and overwhelming likely explanation.
He concluded:
The overwhelming evidence suggests the failure of the wall is the result of previously 
unprecedented volumes of rainfall becoming embedded in the wall during the heavy driven 
rain created by storm Christoph, followed by freezing, resulting in expansion and bursting of 
the wall on the 24th January.
In my opinion the failure is attributable to the combined weather event of Storm Christoph 
followed by sub-zero temperatures.
AA sent its final response to Mr L in April 2021. It maintained its decision to decline the 
claim, on the basis that an insured peril had not caused the damage at his property. AA also 
added that it did not consider that the conditions experienced in the area of Mr Ls home 
constituted a storm. It pointed to the general exclusion of damage which occurs gradually, 
and also a specific exclusion of atmospheric or climatic conditions, frost or the action of 
light.
Mr L was unhappy with this response and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into the matter and set out his view to the parties. He explained that 
when we look at complaints about claims for storm damage, we look at three questions; i) 
were there storm conditions around the time of the damage, ii) was the damage of a type 
consistent with storm damage, and iii) was the storm the main cause of the damage. He 
considered that these questions could be answered yes, and he recommended that the 
complaint be upheld, and that AA settle the claim.
AA did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. In that provisional 
decision I set out that I considered that the conditions were within the margin of error to be 
considered a wind storm, but that I was not satisfied that the second and third questions 
could be answered yes. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr L has provided an extensive response, giving detail of the situation and weather 
conditions around his home, and disputing areas of the experts reports. AA has not 
responded to the decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the submission from Mr L, which he has taken time and care to submit. In 
this he makes a number of points, including about the proximity of the weather stations to his 
home, and he has provided photographs showing how and where the wall at his home is 
exposed to severe weather coming from the South West. 
He disputes that there was any fault or damage to the top of the wall, to let water penetrate, 
and he believes that the consistent rainfall and snow over the period of the storm would have 
caused the damage to the wall. He notes that the other side of the wall, which was less 
exposed, remained standing. 
Mr L also believes that there are problems with the way that insurers define or respond to 
storms, and that there is a problem with the way our service considered complaints about 
storms as, from the search he has conducted, we appear to uphold a minority of the 
complaints we receive. Finally, he comments that the industry is failing consumers as they do not know the limits of 
the cover being offered. 
I appreciate the response from Mr L, and the detail he has provided. 
I should make clear, however, that it is not the role of this service to decide claims, or to set 
policy terms. We look at whether claims have been considered fairly against the policy 
terms. 
In this case, AA has made clear in its policy literature what it considered to be the definition 
of a storm. This is quite appropriate. 
Against this definition, the weather conditions recorded are far short of a snow storm or a 
rain storm, but I accepted that they could constitute a wind storm. 
Mr L has provided evidence of sustained rain. The policy requires this to be intense, and to 
reach a particular level within an hour, and Mr L has shown that the level was met across the 
duration of the whole storm. He considers that the sustained rain and cold should qualify, 
rather than only an intense storm. 
I do not agree. The terms make clear that there must be a level of intensity of the weather in 
order to be defined as a storm. This is why it is a specific peril. Bad weather over a 
continuous period is not the same.
I did, however, previously accept that the criteria for a wind storm could be met. I accept that 
the conditions in particular places which are exposed, or in areas where the wind is 
funnelled, there could be different effects on structures. This could include suction forces 
acting on the wall from the bottom, in addition to any forces acting directly against the wall.
In this case, however, that is not what the expert evidence says. Both experts agree that 
water entered the wall and the water, either through its weight or through expanding when 
frozen, caused the wall to rupture and collapse. 
That situation was not an insured peril under Mr Ls policy, and consequently I remain of the 
view that AA was not acting unreasonably when it declined Mr Ls claim. 
Whilst I appreciate this will be upsetting to Mr L, I adopt my provisional decision, as 
supplemented by these reasons, as my final decision and I do not uphold his complaint. 
Mr L has commented on the rate of successful complaints to this service. I cannot comment 
on the cases he has referred to as each complaint is considered on its own merits and 
applying its individual circumstances. 
I do note, however, that it is more likely that a decision to decline a claim would end up in a 
complaint, which is then referred to this service, rather than a decision to accept and settle a 
claim. It would therefore be difficult to draw conclusions about all storm claims based on his 
search. 
Finally, in respect of Mr Ls comments about how well consumers are served by insurers, I 
appreciate his comments but am unable to consider the broad treatment of consumers. This 
is done by the Financial Conduct Authority. If he wishes his comments to be considered he 
may of course contact that organisation. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and do not ask AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman