DRN-4347660
The complaint
Mr B complains that JN Bank UK Ltd is holding him liable for a loan he says he didnt apply 
for.
What happened
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 9 August 2023. I said:
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer 
to some key events here.
JN Bank approved a £3,500 loan in Mr Bs name on 6 September 2021. It was set up 
over a three-year repayment term at about £126 per month.
Mr B contacted JN Bank on 17 February 2022. In this call, he enquires about the 
balance of the loan and asks how he can make a payment. JN Bank explained to 
Mr B the loan was for £3,500, that the account was in arrears as only one payment in 
November 2021 had been received, and it would cost about £3,480 to settle the debt. 
Mr B refers to getting someone to make a payment for it because they owe him and 
that he thought a payment was made in December 2021 or January 2022. He then 
questions how he can repay the loan, both in full as well as in instalments. After 
JN Bank explain his options, Mr B says his aim is to pay more than the monthly 
repayments as he just wants to get rid of it. He also updates his telephone number 
and email address with JN Bank (as they differed to those on their system). 
Mr B contacted JN Bank again the next day. In this call, he said hed only recently 
found  about a week ago after receiving a letter dated 11 February 2022 asking for 
payment  that the loan had been taken out in his name by a very close friend (who 
Ill refer to as Mr D). He then explains while he intends on paying it, he doesnt want 
it affecting his credit score and so enquires about when the repayments are due. 
Mr B told JN Bank that it was Mr D that had made the previous repayment. And that 
he was thinking of contacting the police about the matter  although hes not sure if 
he wants to report it, as hes a very close friend, and so hes thinking of paying it 
himself and getting the money from him instead. He reiterated that his main concern 
was ensuring his credit score isnt messed up. Mr B explains Mr D was able to do 
this as, due to knowing him for 23 years, theyve got each others person information 
 including passport and driving license etc.
JN Bank told Mr B that their fraud manager would look into the matter and, if its 
confirmed as fraud, they can take it from there. They explained that due to the 
account status being in arrears, it may still potentially be referred to a debt collection 
agency. But the only way to stop that happening in the meantime would be to make a 
payment, and that he could do so by using the details provided the previous day. 
Mr B explained hell make a payment but added that if Mr D didnt pay him then hes 
thinking of escalating the matter. 
JN Bank wrote to Mr B on 4 April 2022 telling him that they hadnt found sufficient 
evidence to show the loan had been taken out fraudulently. He was therefore liable to 
make all contractual payments and that, failure to do so, could negatively impact his 
credit file.
A complaint was raised but JN Bank didnt change their position. In short, they said:
The loan was paid into a nominated bank account held in Mr Bs name. And 
they received a repayment for the loan from this account, as well a repayment 
from another account in Mr Bs name.
Initial communication following attempts to collect repayments  after failed 
direct debit attempts  included no indication or report of fraud.
There was communication prior to the fraud report to update account details.
Theyd received confirmation from Cifas that there were no reported fraud 
concerns.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator upheld the 
complaint in part. Having seen the chat history between Mr B and Mr D, he was 
satisfied the loan was taken out by Mr D and not Mr B. And so, as Mr B didnt agree 
to the loan he didnt think it was enforceable under the Consumer Credit Act. He 
thought JN Bank should remove interest or charges applicable to the loan and 
remove any details of it from Mr Bs credit file. But given Mr B had given Mr D access 
to the bank account the loan funds were paid into, thereby allowing Mr D to be able 
to transfer the funds to his own account, he thought it was reasonable for JN Bank to 
pursue Mr B for the loan capital  less what had already been paid  if they wished.
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigator. In short, he added:
He didnt take out the loan and so he doesnt think he should be punished for 
someone elses actions. Nor should he be held liable for a loan he didnt 
agree to.
Mr D had access to the details on his bank card. He didnt have access to the 
physical card or his physical identification documents. Nor could he access 
his email or telephone. So, he doesnt think he gave sufficient information to 
Mr D to have enabled him to access his bank account through online banking 
(which he himself didnt use). But, even if it was, he doesnt think this would 
imply enough guilt on his part to warrant him being required to repay the 
capital.
Other lenders have accepted Mr D fraudulently applied for loans with them 
and arent holding him liable.
JN Bank acknowledged our Investigators view but didnt respond to it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A consumer shouldnt be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to. Ive 
therefore considered whether, on balance, I think Mr B consented to this loan 
agreement.Having done so, I dont think he did. This is because:
Mr B has provided his chat history with Mr D. Im satisfied this shows Mr D 
admitting taking out the loan without Mr Bs knowledge or consent, along with 
discussions about repaying the amount owed.
Once received in Mr Bs account, the loan funds were paid  via card 
payment  to an account held in Mr Ds name with a third-party electronic 
money institution (EMI). The EMI account provider has confirmed the funds 
were then sent to an account, with another banking provider, also held in 
Mr Ds name.
The telephone number and email address provided in the loan application 
dont match those Mr B provided our service, or those held by his bank 
account provider that received the loan funds.
The EMI account provider has confirmed the telephone number for Mr Ds 
account. This matches the telephone number provided in the loan application.
JN Bank attempted to call Mr B on two occasions in September and 
November 2021 prior to the fraud being reported and the telephone number 
being updated. Their notes show the first call was disconnected after 
responses were given to security questions. And the person who answered 
the second call said they werent Mr B. This further supports the likelihood 
Mr D applied for the loan and provided his own telephone number.
Mr B has shown borrowing was taken out fraudulently in his name with other 
lenders around the same time. This therefore adds further weight to the 
likelihood Mr D applied for this loan fraudulently.
Ive noted JN Bank has referred to contradictions in Mr Bs position in respect 
of the loan, between the calls of 17 and 18 February 2022, as he 
acknowledged ownership and liability of the loan initially. However, I think 
Mr B has given a plausible explanation for this. That being he didnt fully 
understand how much was owed at the time, demonstrated by the enquiry 
made to JN Bank in the first call. And given Mr D is a longtime friend of his, 
he was mindful of not trying to get him into trouble. Ive found Mr Bs 
testimony about the fraud, once reported, to have been consistent and 
persuasive here and I think Mr Bs desire to protect his friend was 
understandable. I also think its unlikely, had Mr B taken out the loan himself, 
that he wouldve needed to contact JN Bank to obtain details of the loan  
such as the amount borrowed and the contractual repayments  as he 
wouldve already had it available to him.
Ive considered that arrears letters were sent to Mr B from October 2021 
onwards. And JN Bank has pointed out that no dispute was raised before the 
call of 17 February 2022. Although Mr B says he never received these letters, 
as they were correctly addressed, I think its most likely they were delivered to 
him. Its therefore unclear why these werent responded to earlier  albeit 
Mr B has said Mr D would wait in his room at times without him there and so, 
the mail could potentially have been intercepted. Nevertheless, I dont think 
the failure to respond to the arrears letters sooner, is enough to evidence 
Mr B applied for the loan.
JN Bank has also referred to repayments being made from accounts in Mr Bs name, with one made in November 2021 before the fraud was reported. Mr B 
has however explained that Mr D was able to set up online banking access 
for his account, and that it was him that made the November 2021 payment. 
Ive looked at Mr Bs bank account statements and it shows a credit from 
Mr D (for almost the same value) on the same day the repayment was made. 
Although its unclear exactly how Mr D obtained online banking access to 
Mr Bs account, this supports Mr Bs claim that the loan repayment was made 
by Mr D, through his bank account.
For the above reasons, and after taking everything into consideration, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr B didnt apply for the loan.
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be reasonable for JN Bank to pursue Mr B 
for the debt outside of the loan agreement. But I dont think that would be fair here. 
This is because, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr B had knowledge Mr D 
had applied for the loan in his name. Nor am I satisfied that he has benefitted from 
the funds, as they were subsequently sent to an account in Mr Ds name shortly after. 
At which point, I think it would be worthwhile to add that the funds were sent to Mr 
Ds account by card payment. And given Mr D had these details available to him, due 
to the trust created from their long-standing relationship, it wouldve been relatively 
easy for him to have facilitated these payments. I therefore dont think it would be 
appropriate to attribute responsibility to Mr B for this. Sadly, I think Mr B has been the 
victim of fraud by a close friend, in which he trusted, and so couldnt reasonably have 
prevented it.
Im also satisfied Mr B hasnt received funds from his own bank in lieu of the loan 
money paid away from his account. As such, JN Bank not pursuing him for the debt 
wont put Mr B in a position of betterment.
For these reasons, Im currently of the view that it wouldnt be fair for JN Bank to hold 
Mr B liable for the loan. And so, to put things right, I think they should write off the 
outstanding amount on the loan and remove any reference of it with credit refences 
agencies.
On a final note, Ive considered that Mr B has made repayments towards the loan. 
Ive therefore thought about whether these should be returned. Having done so, I 
dont think this would be fair as I understand the funds used to make the repayments 
havent come from Mr Bs personal money  but instead, theyve come from Mr D or 
his family. So, he hasnt suffered a personal loss here.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I intend to direct JN Bank UK Ltd to write off the outstanding amount on the loan and 
remove any reference of it with credit reference agencies.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. But JN bank didnt respond to it.
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can proceed to making my final 
decision on Mr Bs complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further points for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
above. I therefore remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair for JN Bank to hold Mr B liable 
for the loan. And so, to put things right, I think they should write off the outstanding amount 
on the loan and remove any reference of it with credit refences agencies. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct JN Bank UK Ltd to write off the outstanding amount on the loan and remove any 
reference of it with credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman