DRN-3421106
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt communicate clearly what it 
meant by informal arrangement and is unhappy his account has been marked on his credit 
file as defaulted.
What happened
Mr K had an arranged overdraft with Barclays. Barclays sent Mr K a number of letters 
throughout 2019 explaining his account was over his overdraft limit and as this continued to 
be the case in November 2019 Barclays removed the overdraft facility altogether. Mr K got in 
touch with Barclays about this and agreed an informal arrangement to pay the outstanding 
balance.
Following the phone call Barclays sent a letter advising the payment plan agreed was not 
enough to keep the account open and that the account was going to be closed unless an 
alternative arrangement was put in place. Following this a termination letter was sent in 
January 2020 and the account was closed the following month.
Mr K complained to Barclays about the way it handled the administration of his account and 
that it had incorrectly registered a default against his account. Barclays accepted that there 
was lack of clarity during the phone call Mr K had with it about the implications of an informal 
arrangement and offered Mr K £100 compensation. Barclays says that although there were 
errors in the way the call was handled the account was closed and default registered 
correctly.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays had treated Mr K fairly and done enough to put things right.  
Mr K disagreed, he says the information given to him wasnt clear enough and has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. This 
service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my role isnt 
to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr K says Barclays advice around what it meant by informal arrangement was unclear. 
Barclays has accepted this was the case and offered him £100 compensation for it which I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So I now need to consider whether Barclays did anything wrong in closing Mr Ks
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Ks account and registered a default. As prior to this happening and 
directly following the phone call I can see that Barclays sent Mr K a letter to the address it 
had registered for him explaining the payment plan he had offered was not enough to keep 
the account open and what was to happen next  that he would be receiving a termination 
notice and a demand for payment of the outstanding balance if he took no further action. The 
letter also explains that this will be registered on his credit file. Following no response 
Barclays sent the termination notice in January 2020, closed his account and registered the 
default.  
So Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to make the decision to close Mr Ks account as it 
gave Mr K the required notice of what was to happen if he didnt take appropriate action. 
I understand that Mr K is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but
Barclays has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) it subscribes to is factually accurate. And even before 
the default was registered Mr Ks financial position was already impacted because he was 
consistently exceeding his overdraft limit  hence the reason Barclays took the action it did. 
Mr K might be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit 
records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
So, as Barclays has already offered to compensate Mr K what I think is reasonable for the 
service he received and made no errors in closing Mr Ks account or registering a default,  I 
dont think that Barclays needs to do anything more and Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint and Im not asking 
Barclays UK PLC to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman