DRN-3788833
The complaint
Mr G says Principality Building Society allowed a withdrawal of £800 from his Easy Saver 
account without recording it in his passbook. 
What happened
Mr Gs passbook shows £800 was withdrawn from his savings account on 9 March 2022. He 
said this was not recorded in his passbook until he visited the branch on 5 April 2022. He 
says he did not make the withdrawal on 9 March 2022 and his passbook was in his 
possession at all times between 3 March 2022 (the date of his previous withdrawal) and 5 
April 2022 (the date of his next withdrawal).  He complained about this to Principality, and 
amongst other things, asked the society to review CCTV footage from 9 March 2022 saying 
this would show he did not visit the branch on that date. By the time his complaint was 
allocated more than 30 days had passed and the CCTV footage was therefore no longer 
available. Principality says it instead it showed Mr G the signed docket from 9 March 2022. It 
says the signature matched his and that Mr G did not dispute this when he saw the docket. It 
accepts that Mr G was given misleading information on 5 April 2022 in the branch. But it 
says the note from that date that its advisor provided was to capture Mr Gs concerns, and 
was a generic suggestion. To recognise the distress and confusion this had caused it offered 
Mr G £75 compensation, in addition to an ex-gratia payment of £800 with no admission of 
liability. 
Mr G rejected this and brought his complaint to this service. He says he is certain he did not 
visit the branch between 3 March and 5 April 2022 so he could not have signed the docket 
on 9 March 2022. And the branch had previously confirmed the transaction of 9 March 2022 
was not printed in his passbook when he arrived on 5 April 2022. It had confirmed this for 
him in writing, citing a printer problem. Mr G says he asked the society to carry out an 
independent forensic analysis to show his passbook was actually updated with the 
withdrawal from 9 March 2022 on 5 April 2022, but it will not do this. He is also unhappy that 
the CCTV footage was not made available as he made the initial request within the 30 days 
it is retained for  and he wanted it to show he had not visited the branch, not to see 
evidence of the transaction itself.
Mr G says he has found this all very stressful and time consuming. The issue has 
undermined his confidence in Principality so he has had to transfer out other savings 
accounts. He has paid penalties for early closures and asks if he could be compensated for 
these losses.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She found that whilst Principality had given 
Mr G misleading advice in April, its settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Mr G disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said not recording the 9 March 2022 withdrawal 
was a serious operating breach. He reiterated that he had not been in the branch that day so 
could not have signed the docket. His passbook was not updated on 9 March 2022 as 
Principality now says.  And he had asked for the CCTV footage in time. His distress is 
caused by how his complaint was investigated, not by how the branch staff dealt with him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully all of Mr Gs comments but in keeping with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I 
find to be material to the outcome of his complaint.
There has undoubtedly been confusion created by Principality as it has provided different 
explanations to Mr G about the disputed passbook entry. As we are an evidence-based 
service I have to decide what I think is most likely based on the available evidence. 
I can see there is a note from the branch on 5 April 2022 that sets out that the withdrawal of 
9 March 2022 isnt listed due to printer problems. However, Principality subsequently 
explained that this note was a suggestion of what may have happened, capturing what Mr G 
had said as he wanted it recording before leaving the branch. I note he did not ask for the 
bank to record that he was disputing he had made the withdrawal. This seems unusual in the 
circumstances he describes.
I have also looked at Mr Gs passbook. This shows that the withdrawal made on 9 March 
2022 (transaction date) was recorded in his book on the same date (date of entry). 
Principality has also explained that the printers in its branches do not store information  so 
if there were any transactions that needed adding to a passbook retrospectively the date of 
entry would differ from the transaction date. This is not the case here. I have also looked at 
the docket for the transaction. I am not a handwriting expert but it seems the signature 
matches Mr Gs from his account application form. And the society has told us he did not 
dispute this when he visited the branch in April to view the docket. So it seems me it is most 
likely the withdrawal was authorised by Mr G and recorded correctly on the date it was 
made. 
I know Mr G strongly feels there are two ways this could be conclusively proven. One is from 
the CCTV footage but this is no longer available. And whilst I understand why he is 
frustrated by this, I have found no reason to conclude this is for any other reason than the 
timing of when his complaint was formally allocated to a handler. The second request he 
made was for a forensic analysis of the societys IT system with the aim of seeing when the 
passbook entry was printed. But I am not persuaded this is proportionate. From the evidence 
I have seen, as described above, I am satisfied its most likely the withdrawal was authorised 
by Mr G and recorded at the time in his passbook. I am not doubting that Mr Gs testimony is 
his honest recollections, but I have to give appropriate weight to the available written 
evidence. 
It follows I am not instructing Principality to do any more than it has already offered to. I find 
£75 fairly recognises the avoidable trouble the society caused by giving Mr G generic and 
confusing information in the branch. It also offered to make a £800 goodwill payment, this is 
generous, and in excess of what I would have instructed in the circumstances. I note Mr G 
feels the terms attached to the £800 offer are too onerous, but given my findings I think it is 
reasonable that Principality has said this payment would be made without any admission of 
liability. 
If Mr G wishes to accept this total settlement offer of £875 he should contact the society 
directly within 30 days of receiving this final decision to let it know. I have found no grounds 
to instruct Principality to compensate Mr G for the losses he incurred by opting to move other 
savings accounts to different providers. My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman