DRN-4387402
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited unreasonably 
refused to let him transfer his specific roadside assistance policy attached to a specific make 
of vehicles to his new car of the same make. 
What happened
When Mr J bought his car, he also bought this specific roadside assistance policy. This 
required renewing each year. He duly renewed his cover on 22 November 2022. At that time 
Mr J said he knew he was changing his car the following March to another car of the same 
make. 
So, then he asked AA to transfer his policy to his new car. AA refused saying the cover only 
applied to his original car and wasnt transferable. Mr J complained but AA wouldnt change 
its stance. 
So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator felt the terms and conditions werent 
specifically clear that it wasnt transferable so he thought AA should refund Mr J his premium 
less his time on cover plus pay him £50 compensation. Mr J agreed but AA didnt so Mr Js 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why.
 
When Mr J first bought his policy, the terms and conditions stated the following: 
2. Where a paid [Specific make of car] Roadside Assistance Member changes their 
vehicle for another eligible vehicle for which free membership is given, they must 
inform [main manufacturers] who will issue a new [Specific make of car] Roadside 
Assistance card for the new eligible vehicle with the member ship period plus any 
residual period remaining.
3. where a paid [Specific make of car] Roadside Assistance Member changes their 
vehicle for a non-eligible vehicle [Specific make of car] Roadside Assistance 
membership will be rendered null and void. [Main manufacturer] will refund a 
proportion of the subscription paid by the Member, on a pro-rata basis for the 
unexpired period of membership subject to  retaining an amount of £15 for 
administrative purposes. 
4. Complimentary [Specific make of car] Roadside assistance remains with the 
original vehicle to which it is first applied and cannot be transferred to another 
vehicle. Membership will automatically pass to the new owner should the vehicle be 
sold or transferred during the period of complimentary ownership.
Mr J wasnt a complimentary owner as he was paying for his cover. It appears from these 
terms to be a given that new eligible cars would have a period of free cover which 
previously paid members would get credit for. Consequently, Mr J is right, he was entitled to 
transfer his membership to any new eligible car which had to be the specific make in order to 
qualify. Thereafter it appears it would revert to paid membership once that free element for 
the new car expired.
AA told us that it has recently taken over this product from another provider in April 2022. It 
said it was under the impression that previously this ad-hoc goodwill option of transferring 
the cover was withdrawn as it was pay for use policy. First, in the above terms, I consider 
that there was nothing ad-hoc about the specific rules about transferring the cover to a new 
car, given the terms are exceptionally detailed in order to distinguish between complimentary 
and non-complimentary cover. 
 
And secondly and most importantly renewing customers ought to have been told of any 
significant changes in what AA were now providing. And Ive seen no evidence of that. 
AA said this cover is only for the [specific make of car] which is registered on the policy. It 
showed us the IPID which clearly states this under what is covered. However, in the excerpt 
of the IPID it showed us (since it doesnt have any policy documents as they are sent by a 
third party who deletes them after 90 days) under what is not covered it doesnt mention it 
isnt transferable to a new model of the specific make of car. Furthermore, in the terms and 
conditions now provided by AA it doesnt say this either. 
 
In response to the investigators view AA said the following: 
 
Further, your argument seems centred around what is presumed to be and does not 
consider the fact we do not explicitly state the vehicle specific cover is non-
transferable. I would remind you that nor does it confirm the policy is transferable and 
it does not state anywhere on the terms or the IPID, where to change/amend the 
policy. Surely, if the intention of the consumer was to replace the car he was insuring 
and had he read the policy documents etc, if there were any areas of doubt, the 
responsibility is on the consumer alone to clarify this either prior to or immediately 
after the renewal to ensure there was no confusion. 
On that basis, we feel the decision to place the blame on the business rather than 
acknowledging the responsibility of the consumer to ensure he is fully understanding 
of the terms of his policy, is an unfair outcome so again, I would ask you pass this to 
your Ombudsman please.
AA has forgotten the fact that it took over this cover from a previous provider who did permit 
such transfer. As can be seen from Mr Js previous terms and conditions, there was nothing 
ad-hoc about such transfer capabilities either. It was very clearly permitted. And AA never 
explained it wasnt going to do that anymore. I consider this a significant change in cover 
which was required to be fully detailed by AA under the auspices of treating customers 
fairly, given paid members would be renewing their cover and had previously thought if they 
bought a new car of the same make, it was transferable.  
Further the duty is on AA to make its terms clear, more especially since AA took over 
providing this from another provider. It is not the duty of the consumer to clarify terms in 
these instances when the previous cover permitted the transfer. And more significantly in 
situations where there is any confusion of terms, the law requires it always to be construed 
in the consumers favour not the business favour. After all its the business job to write clear 
unequivocal terms which any consumer can understand. Therefore, I consider AA should now refund Mr J the nine months or so cover he couldnt 
use with interest. This also caused Mr J some trouble and upset which necessitates 
compensation. I agree with the investigators thoughts that this should be £50 compensation. 
As thats in line with our approach and would have been the amount I would have required 
had the investigator not suggested it. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to do the following: 
Refund Mr J, the nine months or so of cover that he couldnt use. Adding interest of 
8% simple per year from the date his cover was of no use to him to the date it 
refunds him. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr J for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr J the sum of £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman