DRN-3575918
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd (WFM).
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H sought advice from WFM as to investment of £400,000 they were due 
to receive from the sale of a UK property. They initially wanted to invest to provide an 
income to replace the income they had been receiving by way of rent from the property. 
However, they subsequently decided that they wanted to invest for capital growth and would 
use the balance of the sale proceeds to live on for the first few years. 
Mr and Mrs H were advised by WFM to invest their £400,000 pot as to; £25,000 each in the 
Dolphin Capital Loan Note (The Dolphin Investment)  an unregulated investment; 
£100,000 in a Metlife Bond; £150,000 in a Brewin Dolphin DFM portfolio; £100,000 in a 
Sanlam DFM portfolio. They later invested £25,000 into another investment, Needlesmart, 
which they have said was also on advice from WFM.
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to WFM about the advice they had received 
and the service they had been provided. They raised various issues about the Dolphin 
investment, the Needlesmart investment and the Metlife investment but raised no issues as 
to the Sanlam and Brewin Dolphin investments.
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following key findings:
Mr and Mrs H hadnt raised any issues about the Brewin Dolphin investment or 
Sanlam investment, and I hadnt considered those investments in this complaint.
The Dolphin investment could only be promoted to Mr and Mrs H if they were either 
sophisticated investors or High Net Worth (HNW) investors.
Mr and Mrs H werent sophisticated investors and there was no reasonable basis for 
WFM saying they could have been treated as such. 
They could be considered as HNW investors based on the statement they had 
signed to that effect and if they were joint owners of the UK property being sold to 
fund their investments.
The UK property was in Mrs Hs sole name and as such it is difficult to see how it 
could be said it had been held by Mr H, as required if a person was going to be a 
HNW investor.
Even if Mr and Mrs H were properly categorised as HNW investors that doesnt 
necessarily mean the adviser did nothing wrong by sending them HNW statements to 
sign so that he could promote the Dolphin investment to them.
The provider made clear that the investment should only be promoted to investors 
who were sufficiently knowledgeable of the risks and could afford to lose all their 
investment which wasnt the position Mr and Mrs H were in.
Regardless of whether, or not, the Dolphin investment should have been promoted to 
them it had to be suitable.
Mr and Mrs Hs risk appetite was assessed as moderate and it was more likely than 
not the Dolphin investment was high-risk.
There was nothing in the documents that referred to the investment as high-risk.
In a suitability report dated 10 March 2017 the adviser stated that the investment was 
as secure as owning property which was misleading.
Even if I am wrong about the investment being high-risk and about Mr and Mrs H 
being misled about the risk there was no reasonable basis for the adviser to think Mr 
and Mrs H had the knowledge and experience to understand the risks.
I was not satisfied that the Metlife bond was unsuitable.
I was not satisfied that WFM had advised Mr and Mrs H about the Needlesmart 
investment. 
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decisions. Both parties responded and 
provided further information for me to consider. I then issued a second provisional decision, 
the findings from which are set out below.
Findings from Second Provisional Decision
The investment in Dolphin
The Dolphin investment could only be promoted to HNW investors and in my provisional 
decision I questioned whether Mr H was one, because the UK property being sold so the 
investments could be made was in Mrs Hs name only. I pointed out that in COBS 4.12.6 the 
statement for HNW investors refers to individuals holding net assets of £250,000 or more.
WFM argues that as Mrs H had investable assets outside the main residence of more than
£550,000  the UK property making up £528,000 of that figure  and she and Mr H were 
investing jointly they met the definition of HNW investors. There is no issue that the 
proceeds from the UK property werent just being invested in Mrs Hs name but WFM still 
hasnt explained why this means Mr H held net assets of £250,000 or more when the UK 
property was in Mrs Hs sole name. In the circumstances I still think it is arguable he 
shouldnt have been treated as a HNW investor.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H were aware of the Dolphin investment through Mr C before 
they discussed it with the adviser. That doesnt mean it wasnt promoted to them by the 
adviser and it didnt change the advisers role or responsibility when it came to giving advice.
I acknowledge that the return that Mr and Mrs H were looking for from investment of 5-8% 
wasnt realistic based on their medium risk appetite, as the adviser said in the suitability 
report. However, this doesnt change my view that the Dolphin investment shouldnt have 
been recommended.
WFM still argue that Mr H told the adviser he had previously invested in currency trades and 
that Mr and Mrs H either misled WFM or have misled our service. I dont agree with WFM for 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. In short, I am not satisfied that Mr H did 
necessarily say he had been involved in currency trading previously when speaking to the 
adviser.
I think it is of note that the adviser didnt obtain any information from Mr H as to when, what 
or how much he had previously invested in currency trading. WFM rely solely on handwritten 
notes from conversations. I have seen no written document provided to Mr and Mrs H which
makes reference to them having previous experience in currency trading.I think it is also of note that in a client profile review sheet dated 23 May 2019 there is an 
updated attitude to risk of moderately adventurous with a handwritten note that this is due 
to their currency investments. Again, this note is handwritten not typed but more importantly, 
if as WFM argue, Mr and Mrs H were already trading in currency investments in 2017 at the 
time of advice the question arises why their attitude to risk was only revised two years later.
The handwritten telephone notes from the initial telephone call in January 2017 refer to 
ultra-high-risk currency trades and the subsequent fact find the adviser completed on 16 
January 2017 based on the what was discussed refers to Mr H informing the adviser that:
he was doing leveraged currency trades with someone in Malaysia who is making 90% to 
100% return of capital in 12 months. He is going to invest £50,000 . Knows its ultra-high 
risk but his friends are doing it.
I have noted the use of the word doing in the notes, but the notes also refer to someone 
else making returns on the trade rather than Mr H himself and also refer to what he is going 
to invest not what he had already invested. It also indicates that his decision to invest is 
based on what his friends are doing, not what he has already done. In the circumstances I 
think it is more likely than not that the notes show what Mr H was thinking of doing not what 
he or Mrs H had already done.
I have also seen notes of a meeting on 24 March 2017 which refer to Mr H wanting to do a 
£50k currency trade direct with a contact in Malaysia and being advised this was high risk as 
it is leveraged to which the notes then state that they have already been trading and happy 
to accept risk.
This repeats the desire to invest £50,000 in currency trading. There is no information about 
any previous trades. The notes do refer to they have already been trading but Im mindful 
these are handwritten notes and whilst they may refer to Mr and Mrs H its also possible 
that it refers to those people they referred to in January 2017 who were already doing this.
In short, I dont think the handwritten notes of the adviser provide persuasive evidence that 
Mr and Mrs H had previously carried out currency trades. I think it is more likely than not that 
they had not previously been involved in currency trading, as they have said is the case, and 
that the reference to currency trading in the handwritten notes was to something that Mr H 
thought he might do.
Even if I am wrong and they had carried out some currency trading there is nothing to 
suggest this wasnt something they had just done. In other words, even if the reference to 
they in the notes of 24 March 2017 does refer to Mr and Mrs H, there is nothing to indicate 
this wasnt something they had just started doing, as opposed to something they had 
previous experience in. So, I still dont think this supports the advice to invest in the Dolphin 
investment.
In any event the adviser didnt have any information about what currency trading Mr and Mrs 
H had carried out. In other words, even if I accept it was reasonable for him to have thought 
they had previous experience in currency trades, he didnt try and find out what this 
experience amounted to.
In short, I still think the adviser placed far too much weight on the brief references to 
currency trading when providing advice. He had no details about this and had no information 
about any other investment experience they had. I dont think he could reasonably make any 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs knowledge and understanding of investments based on the 
information he had.WFM have referred to Mr and Mrs H not owning their main residence abroad as a high-risk 
strategy and that the adviser told them this was high risk but that said they werent 
concerned. I dont think very much can be read into this based on the information available. I 
am not satisfied that any decision Mr and Mrs H made about buying a property abroad some 
11 years previously provides any support for the advice to invest in the Dolphin investment.
WFM have pointed out that it couldnt have foreseen that the Dolphin investment would be 
subject to fraud. However, I have not suggested that this was foreseeable or upheld the 
complaint on the basis that it didnt warn Mr and Mrs H about that risk.
I have upheld the complaint in relation to the Dolphin investment for several reasons.
Firstly I dont think it should have been promoted to Mr and Mrs H, because the provider had 
made it clear that it was only suitable for investors that were sufficiently knowledgeable of 
the risks and could afford to lose all their money. I am not satisfied that Mr and Mrs H fell into 
that category of investor for the reasons explained in the first provisional decision.
Secondly, and following on from what I have said above, I dont think the investment was 
suitable because Mr and Mrs H didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risk.
Thirdly, I think the adviser provided misleading information about the investment that was 
likely to have influenced the decision to invest  namely by stating in the suitability report, 
before making any reference to the risks, that the investment gave all the security normally 
associated with property ownership. I think it is more likely than not that someone then 
looking at the risks that are then set out would consider the likelihood of those risks 
occurring with this misleading statement in mind.
The Needlesmart investment
Mr and Mrs H didnt invest directly in Needlesmart, instead they gave £25,000 to Mr C who 
invested this amount together with £25,000 of his own money around the end of April 2018. 
This is because the investment was an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). Such schemes 
provide tax benefits, but Mr and Mrs H couldnt benefit from these and this is why the 
investment was done through Mr C, who could benefit.
I didnt uphold the complaint in relation to the Needlesmart investment as I wasnt satisfied 
the investment was the result of advice from the adviser. Mr C, who was present at the 
meeting on 13 April 2018 when Mr and Mrs H say the investment was discussed, has now 
provided his recollection of the meeting that took place.
There is none of the usual documentation that arises where advice is given, such as a fact 
find or suitability report. However, this doesnt necessarily mean that advice wasnt given. 
Whether it was, or not, depends very much on what was said by the adviser at the meeting.
I think the evidence shows that the Needlesmart investment was referred to at the meeting. 
Not only is this what Mr H, Mrs H and Mr C have said happened, WFM emailed Mr and Mrs 
H the day of the meeting about what they needed to do to withdraw £25,000 from their 
existing investments. Given this is what was invested in Needlesmart I think this supports 
what they have said happened.
Although the meeting was arranged as a review of Mr and Mrs Hs investments and as such 
it might be expected that the adviser would have made a record of what was discussed. 
However, I have not been provided with any such record or the advisers recollection of what 
was discussed.In response to the complaint WFM said that the investment in Needlesmart was a private 
arrangement between Mr H and Mr C, which suggests WFM had nothing to do with it. I dont 
think this is supported by the evidence. Aside from what Mr H, Mrs H and Mr C have said 
happened, which I comment on further below, I think there are documents that show that 
WFM were involved in the investment.
Firstly, the adviser responded to Mr and Mrs Hs email when they questioned the investment 
in Needlesmart. Secondly, on 14 June 2018 the adviser sent Mr H an update about the 
recent Needlesmart AGM. Thirdly, there is a portfolio valuation from WFM dated 4 
December 2019 showing the different investments in Mr and Mrs Hs portfolio with 
Needlesmart being included. I think these documents add weight to my finding that the 
adviser discussed the Needlesmart investment with Mr and Mrs H.
Mr C has said that the adviser suggested Mr H invest in Needlesmart and that the company 
had an amazing product that would triple in value. Mr and Mrs H have also made reference 
to the adviser saying the investment would triple in value and that they invested based on his 
suggestion and because both the adviser and Mr C had already invested.
I have seen no contrary evidence in relation to this, in other words WFM has provided no 
evidence from the adviser that contradicts what Mr C, Mr H and Mrs H say he said about the 
investment tripling in value and about him suggesting they invest.
In an emailed letter sent to the adviser by Mr and Mrs H on 10 May 2018 they said they had 
invested because Mr C and the adviser had done so and at his suggestion and also raised a 
concern that having got a list of shareholders the adviser wasnt named as one of them.
In response the adviser didnt correct anything that Mr and Mrs H had said. So, he didnt say 
that he hadnt suggested they invest or told them he had invested himself. Instead he 
confirmed he had invested and explained why they had been unable to see his name as a 
shareholder.
In the circumstances, based on the available evidence, I think it is more likely than not the 
adviser did make reference to how well he thought the investment would do and to having 
invested himself. The question I then need to consider is whether he did anything wrong in 
doing so. I think doing so amounted to an invitation or inducement to invest, and as such 
was a promotion.
I think the first issue is that the investment wasnt a regulated product and therefore, as with 
the Dolphin investment, it could only be promoted to certified HNW investors or certified 
sophisticated investors. I have already made clear that they werent certified sophisticated 
investors. I have also raised an issue as to whether Mr H was properly identified as a HNW 
investor in respect of the Dolphin investment.
However, regardless of that, to be a certified HNW investor an individual must have signed a 
HNW statement within 12 months of the communication of the promotion, ending on the day 
of the promotion. Mr and Mrs H signed the HNW statements in respect of the Dolphin 
investment on 24 March 2017, more than 12 months before the meeting on 13 April 2018 
when the promotion took place. They were not asked to sign a second HNW statement at 
the time and as such the adviser should not have promoted the investment to them.
Following on from that finding I have considered whether what the adviser said amounted to 
advice.
The FCA set out in its Perimeter Guidance manual (PERG) some guidance as to what could 
amount to advice. I think the following provisions are relevant:PERG 8.2.1(G)
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. In effect 
it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves 
statements of facts or figures.
PERG 8.28.2(G)
(1)  In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value 
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively 
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4)  A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that 
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that 
the information will tend to influence the decision.
PERG 8.28.5(G)
A key question is whether an impartial observer, having due regard to the regulatory regime 
and guidance, context, timing and what passed between the parties, would conclude that 
what the adviser says could reasonably have been understood by the customer as being 
advice.
PERG 8.28.6(G)
An explicit recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However something falling 
short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element of evaluation, 
value judgment or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being given.
PERG 8.28.7(G)
(1) A person can give advice without saying (or implying) categorically that the customer 
should invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive recommendation as to 
whether the customer should go ahead.
(2) For example, saying the following can still be advice:
(a) This investment is a very good buy but it is your decision whether or not to buy; or
(b)This investment is a very good buy but I am going to leave it to you to decide because 
I dont know your up to date financial position.
(3) 
The guidance makes clear that there doesnt need to be a specific recommendation and that 
advice can be given without saying or implying categorically that the client should invest.I think in referring to how well the investment was going to do and to his own investment in 
the product the adviser went beyond simply providing information about the investment. I 
think what he said was objectively likely to influence Mr and Mrs Hs decision to invest and 
it is more likely than not an impartial observer looking at the circumstances would conclude 
that advice was given.
From what I have seen the decision to invest in Mr Cs name was because Mr and Mrs H 
were not eligible for the tax benefits of an EIS. Mr C has said this was information the 
adviser gave them at the meeting, and I think it is more likely than not that this is the case. In 
other words, I dont think this is something that Mr H or Mrs H would have been aware of 
themselves.
Having decided that the adviser gave advice I have to consider whether the advice was 
suitable or not. Given I dont think the investment should have been promoted to Mr and Mrs 
H in the first place it follows that I dont think the advice was suitable. I am also mindful that 
Mr and Mrs H were not entitled to the tax benefits of the Needlesmart investment. Advising 
them to invest in a product that provides tax benefits they are not entitled to is arguably 
unsuitable regardless of any other issues.
The Metlife bond
Mr and Mrs H argue that having found that the Dolphin investment was unsuitable it follows 
that the Metlife bond was also unsuitable as the bond was to balance the risk of the Dolphin 
investment.
However, I am not persuaded that because I have found the Dolphin investment was 
unsuitable it automatically follows that the Metlife bond was unsuitable. There is nothing in 
the suitability reports that suggests that it was recommended only because it balanced the 
investment made in Dolphin. Investing part of the overall portfolio in something like the 
Metlife bond provided diversification of the portfolio, as the suitability reports indicated.
I am mindful that both the Sanlam and Brewin Dolphin portfolios that the adviser 
recommended to Mr and Mrs H were weighted towards equities. I am also mindful that the 
suitability reports stated that Mr and Mrs H were prepared to dip into capital to preserve 
lifestyle but ideally wanted to preserve capital.
I am not persuaded that the Metlife bond was an unsuitable recommendation based on Mr 
and Mrs Hs circumstances, needs and risk appetite. In other words if they had been advised 
to invest in something other than the Dolphin investment in 2017 I am not persuaded that 
including the Metlife bond in the overall portfolio would have been unsuitable.
Repayment of commission/fees
Mr and Mrs H have argued for repayment of commission and fees. Whilst I understand why 
they think I should award them the commission paid to the adviser as well as part of the 
advice fee paid to the adviser I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to make such an 
award.
The purpose of the redress I award is to put Mr and Mrs H, as far as possible, back in the 
position they would have been in but for the unsuitable advice, not in a better position. It is 
not part of my role to punish the business or the adviser or to ask WFM to pay money to Mr 
and Mrs H they are not entitled to.
Mr and Mrs H have also asked me to award redress based on WFM repaying an eighth of 
the advice fee, this being the proportion the Dolphin investment amounts to of the overall amount invested. I note that the overall fee was £5,000 - reduced from the normal fee of 2% 
of the amount invested which would have made the fee £8,000.
It would only be fair and reasonable for me to award repayment of part of the advice fee if I 
thought it was more likely than not Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have paid at least £5,000 if they 
had been given suitable advice.
I am not satisfied that they wouldnt have been charged a fee for the £50,000 invested in the 
Dolphin investment if they had instead been advised to invest this amount in a more suitable 
investment. In other words, I think it is more likely than not they would have paid a fee on 
this amount in any event. As such if WFM repaid this they would be a better position that 
they would otherwise have been. In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask WFM to repay any part of the fee.
In terms of commission, anything paid to the adviser in relation to the Dolphin investment 
doesnt appear to have been paid by Mr and Mrs H and as such they are not entitled to this. 
From what I have seen for the Needlesmart investment it appears that £48,000 of the 
£50,000 Mr C paid into the investment was invested so it looks like a total of £2,000 was 
paid by way of commission. However, the redress I have awarded deals with this.
I again gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Mr H confirmed that the shares in 
Needlesmart had been transferred to him and that he and Mrs H had registered their interest 
regarding Dolphin with the German courts. Mr H made several points in response to my 
provisional decision which I have considered but I have not set these out as I do not think I 
need to comment on them.
WFM responded to my second provisional decision and made the following key points:
Why would Mr C sell his shares purchased at £24,000 to Mr H for £1?
Mr C had tax relief of 30% on £50,000 which he claimed in full without passing any 
benefit to Mr H.
In the event of the shares making a loss Mr C can no longer claim loss relief on the 
EIS for the shares sold to Mr H and Mr H wont be able to claim loss relief because 
he hasnt held the shares for long enough. This is more evidence of Mr C/Mr H being 
less than open with the regulator.
Mr and Mrs H were present, visiting and staying with Mr C, when the adviser 
discussed Needlesmart and were told they could not invest by way of EIS because 
they werent UK taxpayers but wanted to invest so came to a private arrangement 
with Mr C.
Mr C is trying to destroy the reputation of the adviser and Mr H is being influenced by 
Mr C.
The investment by Mr H in Needlesmart follows a pattern of behaviour that the 
ombudsman seems to be ignoring.
The adviser didnt invent the currency trading, it was disclosed and is now denied 
and Mr and Mrs H sold their lowest risk investment (Metlife) to invest in Turkish Lira 
and they did have high risk Turkish property investments.
Mrs H has admitted being a HNW investor and everything was invested jointly 
making Mr H a HNW investor. The amount invested was only 5% of Mrs Hs wealth if 
she is taken as the only HNW investor, or 10% of their joint wealth.
The investment in Dolphin was also in line with both their attitudes to risk and 
previous investment experience  in ultra-high-risk currency trading and Turkish lira 
and foreign property.
The evidence clearly shows their consistent appetite for risk with only Dolphin being 
a non-standard investment.The actions they took in investing in currency trading, investing in Turkish Lira and 
investing in Needlesmart  which was done without advice  are not the actions of 
someone who does not know what they are doing.
There is a pattern of behaviour and investments which show Dolphin was a suitable 
investment.
I asked WFM for its comments on a proposed change to the outcome for the Needlesmart 
investment because of the transfer of the shares from Mr C to Mr H. It then responded and, 
in short, said that its advisers had said; that there is obviously some underhand dealing 
going on if the shares have only just been transferred into Mr Hs name recently for £1; that 
they quey how a loss could be claimed if he didnt own the shares; that our service cannot 
engage in activities where there is some sort of tax avoidance or evasion; that further 
information was needed to understand the position; and they query how a decision could be 
made on the information currently available.
WFM repeated that the Needlesmart investment was a private arrangement between Mr and 
Mrs H and Mr C because they wanted high returns. It said their loss is only the £1 paid to Mr 
C. 
I asked for Mr Hs comments on what WFM had said. He responded and in summary his key 
points were as follows:
There is no underhand dealing going on. The investment he made through Mr C was 
on the advice of WFM. He and Mrs H have transferred the shares into his name at 
this point to make redress simpler as he can now transfer the shares to WFM.
In terms of ownership of the shares it was not their suggestion for the investment to 
be carried out that way and he believes they were the beneficial owners.
Mr C has informed him that he has not claimed tax relief as he didnt make sufficient 
to do so but in any event they have not benefitted from any tax relief.
The suggestion that our service cannot deal with the complaint about the 
Needlesmart investment because of the assertion there is a potential tax avoidance 
issue is unbelievable given the investment was made in the way it was on the advice 
of WFM.
They didnt invest through Mr C because they were non-UK residents and non-UK 
taxpayers as WFM has said, but because Needlesmart would only accept 
investments from HNW investors or sophisticated investors and they were neither.
They are not entitled to loss relief and have not received anything from Mr C in 
relation to any loss relief he may have claimed  although he has stated he has not 
made such a claim.
They invested because they thought Needlesmart could triple in value over three 
years.
WFM have said they have changed their story a number of times but they have been 
consistent in everything.
They would accept a small reduction to the redress, if the ombudsman feels they are 
partly at fault, which they dont think they are. 
They would like the ombudsman to increase the award for distress and 
inconvenience.
They do not want the matter being delayed by a further provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considered everything that WFM has said in response to my second provisional 
decision but I am not persuaded I should change my findings. WFM has largely repeated 
arguments it has previously raised which I considered when making my second provisional 
decision. 
The Dolphin investment 
WFM has suggested that as everything was invested jointly this means Mr H was a HNW 
investor. However, it is necessary for a clients HNW status to be determined before 
promotion/advice on an unregulated investment occurs. So, I am not persuaded that 
because investments were made in joint names this provides evidence Mr H was a HNW 
investor at the time of advice.
In any event, whether Mr H should have been treated as a HNW investor or not this doesnt 
change my finding that the Dolphin investment was unsuitable for him and Mrs H.
WFM suggest that I have ignored a pattern of behaviour which shows Mr and Mrs H knew 
what they were doing and that the Dolphin investment was suitable for them. It has referred 
to matters both before and after the advice to invest was given. I am not persuaded there is 
any pattern of behaviour that supports the advice given to them. The matters that WFM are 
referring to, such as the alleged currency trading, are ones I have already addressed. 
I note that WFM has said about the adviser not making up what was said by Mr H about 
currency trading, but I did not suggest that he did. I think Mr H did make reference to this but 
I am not satisfied he said that he had previously carried out currency trading. I think it is 
more likely than not he was referring to this as something he was considering rather than 
something he had already done as I made clear in my second provisional decision. This is 
consistent with what Mr H has said in this complaint and I am not persuaded that he has 
misled me about this.
In any event the adviser obtained no further information about this from which he could 
reasonably have drawn any conclusions about Mr Hs investment knowledge and 
experience, again as I made clear in my second provisional decision.
WFM has also referred again to Mr and Mrs H investing in Turkish Lira after surrender of 
their Metlife bond. This was the local currency for their place of residence and the money 
was put into a local bank providing a guaranteed rate of interest. This was not high-risk 
currency trading in my view and in any event this was a year after the advice to invest in 
Dolphin. As such I dont think it provides any evidence that supports the advice to invest in 
the Dolphin investment.
WFM has referred again to Mr and Mrs Hs residence as a high-risk property investment but, 
as I said in my second provisional decision, I dont think much can be read into the decision 
they made to buy the property some 11 years previously.
The Needlesmart investment
I note that WFM has said that Mr H was told he could not invest because he was not a UK 
taxpayer. I dont think that is accurate in that whilst I think the evidence shows Mr H could 
not take advantage of the tax benefits I have seen nothing that shows that this prevented 
him from investing. Mr H has said he didnt invest directly because he wasnt a HNW 
investor and this was a requirement for investment. It seems to me this is a more likely 
explanation as to why the investment wasnt made in his name.
WFM has again referred to me ignoring a pattern of behaviour in relation to the Needlesmart investment. I dont think there was a pattern of behaviour that supports what WFM did. If 
anything I think what Mr and Mrs H decided to do over the period that WFM was acting for 
them points towards them having no real understanding of what they were doing  investing 
in Needlesmart because the adviser said it would triple in value being an example of this in 
my view.
WFM infers there is something wrong about the sale of the shares by Mr C to Mr H for £1. 
However, the shares in question were purchased by Mr C with Mr Hs money and on his 
behalf in the first place. Mr C may have been the legal owner of the shares but he clearly 
held them for Mr H as WFM was aware. Paying a nominal value for the transfer was 
appropriate in the circumstances. It would have made no sense for Mr H to pay more than 
£1 in the circumstances given he had paid for the shares in the first place. 
I dont accept the suggestion that Mr and Mrs H cant claim a loss because the shares were 
not in his name until the recent transfer to him for £1. The adviser promoted the investment, 
advised Mr and Mrs H about it and was aware the investment would be through Mr C and as 
such that Mr H would in effect be the beneficial owner.
WFM appears to be trying to distance itself from an arrangement that I think the evidence 
shows the adviser was very much involved in. The investment could only be made through 
an IFA, as the email of 18 April 2018 from the adviser to Mr C made clear. The email refers 
to the 4% the adviser would be paid for the investment payment of which was duly deducted 
from the total £50,000 invested by Mr C - made up of his own £25,000 and the £25,000 from 
Mr H which the adviser had arranged to be withdrawn from the Brewin Dolphin portfolio. 
WFM have referred to Mr C no longer benefiting from any future loss relief on the shares 
transferred to Mr H and that Mr H cant claim any loss relief on those shares. But Mr H has 
never been able to claim loss relief and was aware of this from the outset. His position has 
therefore not changed in this regard so far as the transfer is concerned. The fact Mr C 
cannot claim any loss relief is not something that has any bearing on my findings as far as I 
am concerned.
WFM has also said Mr C has already claimed loss relief. Mr H has said that Mr C has 
informed him he has not done so. But whether he has or has not, again I dont think has any 
bearing on this complaint. 
I note the inference made by WFM as to Mr H investing as part of some sort of tax evasion 
scheme. But the only person who could claim tax relief on the investment was Mr C, not Mr 
H so there is no question of Mr H seeking to evade tax through the investment. 
Furthermore, the adviser both promoted the investment and was also invested in it himself. 
He was fully aware of how it worked and will have known that only Mr C could claim tax relief 
on the money invested  indeed he confirmed that Mr H could not claim relief. The 
investment by Mr C was made through him and he was paid for that. If he thought that there 
was something wrong with Mr H investing through Mr C he could be expected not to have 
been party to the investment being made and to have explained the position to Mr H.  
Given the adviser was very clearly involved in the investment and didnt raise any issue 
about there being something wrong with what Mr H was doing I am not satisfied that Mr H 
can reasonably be seen as being knowingly involved in some sort of tax evasion scheme - or 
that it is something he should reasonably have been aware of as a potential issue.
I note that WFM has suggested that further information should be obtained and that it has 
queried how  a decision can be made on the information available. It has not suggested 
what other information would help me come to a decision and its not clear what it is referring to. Mr C cant be compelled to give evidence and Mr H has already set out his position. I am 
not persuaded there is other relevant information that would help me make a decision on this 
issue.
WFM has suggested Mr C has some ill intent towards the adviser and that Mr H is under his 
influence. It has provided no evidence in relation to this on which I could reasonably make 
findings. I have seen nothing that suggests Mr and Mrs H have not raised legitimate issues 
that they are entitled to refer to our service. 
Insofar as it is being suggested that the alleged ill-intent of Mr C could bring into question his 
(or Mr and Mrs Hs) evidence in relation to the Needlesmart investment, then I have not just 
relied on what they have said. I have referred to documents which I think support my finding 
that the adviser both promoted the investment to Mr and Mrs H and advised them on it.
WFM has said that Mr and Mrs H were staying with Mr C and were present when the adviser 
discussed the Needlesmart investment with him. This infers that they just happened to be 
present when the investment was discussed with Mr C. I dont think this reflects what 
happened. The adviser was at Mr Cs residence on 13 April 2018 when the investment was 
discussed because this was an arranged meeting to review Mr and Mrs Hs investments.
WFM has not provided any reasonable explanation as to why there are documents between 
it and Mr H about Needlesmart when, on its case, it had nothing to do with the investment. In 
the absence of such explanation it is fair and reasonable to find that the investment wasnt 
just a private arrangement between Mr C and Mr H but resulted from advice that WFM gave 
to Mr and Mrs H.
In short, if WFM had nothing to do with the investment so far as Mr H is concerned there is 
no reason for there to be any documentation between it and him. The fact there is such 
documentation supports the finding that the adviser promoted the Needlesmart investment 
and advised on it.
Mr and Mrs H have asked for an increased award for distress and inconvenience. I 
acknowledge the complaint has become protracted but the award is for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. As such I think the award of £500 I have 
made is appropriate. 
Putting things right
 Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should WFM do?
For the Dolphin investment
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly, WFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
WFM should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by losing all the 
money they invested in the Dolphin investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
The Dolphin 
Capital Loan 
Note Still exists but 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs H agree to WFM taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for WFM to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs H that they repay to WFM any amount 
they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted Capital growth and were willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr 
and Mrs H's circumstances and risk attitude.For the Needlesmart investment 
The shares in Needlesmart have been transferred to Mr H so he now has the benefit of 
those shares. I think they should be treated as illiquid, in that I dont think the shares can 
readily be sold on the open market. 
If Mr H had not invested in Needlesmart then it is more likely than not the money would have 
remained in the Brewin Dolphin portfolio. In the circumstances I think WFM should calculate 
what the £25,000 invested in Needlesmart would be worth if it had remained in the Brewin 
Dolphin portfolio from the time it was withdrawn from the portfolio to the date of settlement 
herein and pay this to Mr and Mrs H.
Payment of the above amount by WFM to Mr H is conditional on the shares in Needlesmart 
being transferred to WFM. If for any reason it isnt possible for Mr H to transfer the shares or 
for WFM to take ownership then Mr H has to provide an undertaking, if requested by WFM, 
to repay to it any amount he may receive for the shares in the future.
I note Mr H would like the transfer of shares to happen after payment from WFM. If WFM are 
willing to proceed on that basis there is obviously no issue but if not I cant see any reason 
this could not be arranged to be done simultaneously. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons explained. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd 
must pay Mr and Mrs H the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman