DRN-1928438
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) decision to turn 
down an escape of water claim he made on his home insurance policy. Hes also unhappy 
with the overall service he received.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr S found a water leak in his home, which had caused some internal damage. 
So he arranged for a builder to come out, who said the damage was likely down to a leaking 
pipe. Mr S then arranged for the leak to be found and an old central heating pipe was 
replaced with a new one.
Mr S made a claim to Admiral for the internal damage the leak had caused. Admiral wanted 
its loss adjuster to assess the likely cause of damage so it could check if the claim was down 
to something covered by the policy. Mr S already had a separate claim ongoing which was 
being dealt with by Admirals loss adjuster. So at first, he didnt think it needed to do another 
inspection. But he later agreed to a loss adjusters visit.
Admirals loss adjuster carried out an inspection. The adjusters report said it thought the 
damage was extensive and had been going on for a long time. It pointed to the fact the 
invoice for the pipe repair hadnt been dated and there wasnt a report to confirm the cause 
of the damage. It didnt think the there was enough evidence to suggest the damage was 
down to a one-off event covered by the policy. Based on this report, Admiral turned down Mr 
S escape of water claim.
Mr S wasnt happy with Admirals decision, and he complained. He felt Admiral had planned 
to turn down his claim from the outset. He wasnt happy with the service hed had from the 
loss adjuster. And he was unhappy that he hadnt been told to provide the invoice earlier on.
Admiral considered Mr S points but didnt change its position. It said that if Mr S was able to 
provide an independent report which showed the damage was due to something insured by 
the policy, it would consider this. And it offered Mr S £50 compensation for the delay in 
asking him for a copy of the invoice. Mr S remained unhappy with Admirals decision and 
asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show the damage in Mr S home was caused by a one-off event. So she 
thought it was fair for it to turn down his claim. And she noted that Mr S hadnt provided 
Admiral with any new evidence to support his position.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Admiral had treated Mr S fairly. I said:
Was it fair for Admiral to turn down Mr S claim?Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr S has claimed for damage caused by an escape of 
water. Damage caused by an escape of water is something thats covered by Mr S policy.
But for the claim to be paid, Mr S needs to show that the damage was caused by an escape 
of water from a fixed water tank; pipe; fixed central heating unit or domestic appliance.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Admiral appointed its loss adjuster to investigate the likely cause of the water damage at Mr 
S property. I understand Mr S felt this was unnecessary, given the loss adjuster was already 
dealing with a separate claim at this property. But that claim wasnt linked to this one and 
related to a totally different insured event.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has told us. I appreciate he believes Admiral had 
planned to turn down his claim from the start. I dont think its likely Admiral approached Mr 
S claim with the intention of turning it down. Thats because it appointed a loss adjuster to 
investigate it. And Admiral considered the adjusters findings before making a decision about 
the claim.
Mr S provided Admiral with an invoice for the replacement pipe. So it seems that hes had 
work done. But this invoice wasnt dated, so I dont think its enough to show that the works 
were done in early May 2019 and relate to this claim. And the builder Mr S first called out 
didnt provide a report stating what had caused the damage. So it isnt clear what the builder 
thought had caused the damage. I dont currently think this is enough evidence to show, on 
balance, that the damage was caused by a one-off escape of water.
This means the only expert evidence I have available is the report from Admirals loss 
adjuster. This says that the adjuster hadnt been able to fully inspect the area where the new 
pipe had been put in, because it had been boxed-in. So I dont think, given the evidence it 
currently has, that Admiral can be entirely clear that the leak did come from the pipework. It 
also found that moisture readings were still high, nearly a month after the repairs had been 
carried out, which it wouldnt expect to see. This suggests that water may still have been 
leaking. The surveyor said the damage was extensive and appears to have been going on 
for a long time. It said there was no evidence of a one-off insured event.
Based on this evidence, Im not currently persuaded Mr S has shown the damage was down 
to a sudden, one-off event thats covered by his policy. Admiral told Mr S that if he was able 
to get an independent report to counter this, it would consider it. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable response and it remains open to Mr S to get an independent report in support of 
his claim and in response to this provisional decision.
Overall, I currently think it was fair for Admiral to turn down Mr S claim.
Did Admiral provide poor customer service?
Mr S feels he got poor customer service from Admiral. Ive looked carefully through Admirals 
notes to look into this issue. There was a delay of about three weeks between the leak being 
reported to Admiral and the loss adjuster visiting the property. But it seems some of this 
delay was because Mr S didnt initially agree to the loss adjuster visiting his home. And Mr S 
had already had the remedial works carried out before he reported the leak to Admiral, so it 
doesnt look like any further damage was sustained as a result.Ive already explained that I dont think Admiral had any plans to turn down Mr S claim until 
after it had investigated it and decided it wasnt covered by the policy terms. The records Ive 
seen suggest that Admirals staff and agents dealt fairly and appropriately with Mr S while 
the claim was ongoing and it responded in a timely way to his concerns.
Admiral acknowledges it didnt tell Mr S to submit the repair invoice as quickly as it couldve 
done. It offered him compensation of £50 for the inconvenience this caused him. I think this 
was a fair offer. If Mr S would like to now accept this offer, its open to him to get in touch 
with Admiral to do so. Having thought about everything, I dont plan to direct Admiral to pay 
Mr S any more compensation.
I asked both parties to send me anything more they wanted me to look at by 3 May 2020.
Mr S confirmed he got my provisional decision, but he didnt send in anything further by the 
deadline I gave.
Admiral also confirmed itd received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any additional 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party has made any further submissions or evidence for me to consider; I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
don't uphold Mr S' complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman