DRN-3816709
The complaint
Miss D complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 Money) lent 
irresponsibly when it approved her loan application.
What happened
Miss D applied for a loan with 118 Money in January 2021. 118 Money approved the 
application and gave Miss D a loan of £2500. The term of the loan was 60 months with 
monthly repayments of £83.11.
Miss D complained that 118 Money lent to her irresponsibly. 118 Money didnt uphold the 
complaint. Miss D brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 118 Money had lent 
irresponsibly. 
Miss D didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set 
out on or website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that 118 Money had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss D could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors including 
the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of credit 
and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
118 Money says it looked at the information Miss D had provided about her income and 
expenditure. 118 Money also carried out a credit check. This showed that Miss D had three 
loan accounts and one credit card account.
Based on what Ive seen, I think 118 Money should have carried out further checks to verify 
Miss Ds income and to find out more about her financial circumstances.
Because I dont think the checks carried out by 118 Money were reasonable and 
proportionate, Ive gone on to consider what a reasonable and proportionate check wouldve 
shown. Ive looked at Miss Ds bank statements for the period prior to the loan being 
advanced to see what her income and expenditure and general financial position was at the 
time.
The bank statements show that Miss Ds income was a little bit less than what she had 
stated when she applied for the loan. Miss Ds expenditure left her with a  monthly 
disposable income from which it appeared that the loan was affordable for her.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the lending decision was fair. The evidence 
suggests that the loan was affordable for Miss D. There was nothing to indicate that she was 
over indebted or that she was experiencing financial difficulties. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Miss D wasnt able to afford the repayments. If 118 Money had looked at the 
bank statements, I think it would have reached the same conclusion.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont  think 118 Money lent irresponsibly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman