DRN-3794577
The complaint
Mr P, who is a sole trader, is unhappy that TSB Bank plc closed his accounts and demanded 
immediate repayment of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) he had only recently been granted.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr P opened a business account with TSB and successfully applied for a
BBL for £30,000 regarding his second-hand clothes selling business. Soon afterwards, Mr P
applied for a BBL top-up and received a further £17,500 from TSB as a result.
In December 2020, TSB undertook a review of Mr Ps accounts which resulted in their taking
the decision in May 2021 to cease offering services to Mr P and to immediately close his
accounts. This resulted in TSB recalling the BBL top-up funds of £17,500 and issuing a
formal notice to Mr P for immediate payment of the original BBL funds.
The letter in May 2021 also gave notice to Mr P that if he didnt repay the BBL funds within
14 days that TSB would pass his account to their collections and recoveries team, which is
what then took place, and which ultimately led to the termination of the BBL agreement by
TSB. Mr P wasnt happy about what had happened, so he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they confirmed their decision to cease offering services
to him with immediate effect, and they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by doing so. Mr P
wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that TSB had acted
unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold this
complaint. Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 October 2022 as follows:
For a BBL application to have been successful, the applicant business must have 
self-declared that it met the BBL eligibility criteria set out by the British Business 
Bank, who administered the scheme. BBL applicant businesses had to declare their 
annual business turnover, with a business only able to apply for a loan amount no 
greater than one quarter of its annual turnover amount.
In this instance, Mr P declared the annual turnover for his business as being 
approximately £190,000, and it was in consideration of this amount that TSB 
approved Mr Ps BBL application for the requested BBL amount of £30,000 and the 
subsequent top up loan. However, upon further investigation, TSB felt that Mr P had 
overstated his business turnover by a considerable degree and therefore may have 
obtained the BBL by providing inaccurate information within the application.
Ive considered the information TSB have confirmed that they considered in this 
regard, which includes a copy of Mr Ps 2019/20 tax return which TSB explain 
confirms an annual business turnover of £15,074, which is considerably less than the 
£190,000 as declared by Mr P in his BBL application.
It's notable that Mr Ps business doesnt appear to have been established until early 
2020, which means that it may have been the case that Mr B used an estimate for his 
business turnover when he applied to TSB for the BBL. In these circumstances, Mr P 
would have been entitled to use such an estimate. But the large discrepancy 
between the potentially estimated amount of £190,000 and the amount of turnover 
shown on Mr Ps actual tax return means that Im satisfied it was reasonable for TSB, 
upon consideration of that tax return, to have had the concerns about the Mr Ps BBL 
application that they did.
Another requirement of a BBL was that the loan funds be used for the purposes of 
the business that applied for and was granted the loan. However, Mr P transferred a 
significant portion of the BBL funds to an overseas country where he attempted to 
purchase two road gritting trucks  the use of which Im satisfied it was fair for TSB to 
consider as being incompatible with a business which buys and sells second-hand 
clothes.
Accordingly, I dont feel that TSB havent acted unreasonably when arriving at the 
conclusion that Mr P may have used inaccurate information within the BBL 
application and hadnt sought to use the loan proceeds in line with the terms of the 
BBL. And in consideration of these points, Im satisfied it was fair for TSB to make 
the decision to cease providing services to Mr P with immediate effect and to recover 
the BBL top-up funds and send a formal notice to Mr P demanding the immediate 
repayment of the original BBL amount.
Im aware that Mr P would like TSB to allow him to open a servicing account to allow 
the repayment of the BBL in instalments over a period of time and feels that TSB are 
required to do this as per the BBL agreement. However, given the circumstances 
outlined above, I feel that TSB are entitled to demand repayment of the BBL in full.
Additionally, TSB have confirmed that because Mr P didnt contact them or repay the 
BBL in the timeframe given in their letter of May 2021, the BBL agreement has now 
been terminated and the outstanding debt transferred to a third-party debt recovery 
company. The act of the loan agreement being terminated means that the provisions 
in that loan agreement to which Mr P refers no longer apply. Accordingly, I feel that 
Mr P should contact the debt recovery company to repay the balance that he owes.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr P explained that because his clothes selling 
business was doing badly during the Covid-19 pandemic, he didnt feel that hed done 
anything wrong by using the BBL funds to take advantage of the business opportunity to buy 
the two trucks overseas as he did.
I can appreciate why Mr P might feel this way. But the BBL was a business loan provided to 
support a specific business  in this case, Mr Ps clothes selling business. As such, a 
condition of a BBL is that the loan funds can only be used to support the specific business 
that applied for it. And it wasnt the case that the BBL funds were available to Mr P to invest 
in any other business opportunities, outside of his clothes selling business, that he saw fit.Mr P has made several other points in response to my provisional decision, but I feel that 
these other points have already been covered by my provisional decision, and after 
considering Mr Ps response my position on these points hasnt changed. 
As such, I remain satisfied that TSB havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in 
how theyve managed this situation, including their decision to cease providing services to 
Mr P and their decisions to recover the BBL top-up funds as they did and to send a formal 
notice to Mr P demanding the immediate repayment of the original BBL amount.
It therefore follows that my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing TSB to take any further action. I hope Mr P will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman