DRN-1724792
The complaint
Mr T complains that Virgin Money plc didnt help him recover payments made to two 
separate merchants.
What happened
On 28 November 2017 Mr T paid a garage £458.40 to replace fuel injectors on his car. Mr T 
says despite the work completed his car continued to experience problems but he wasnt 
able to resolve the situation with the original garage. As a result, Mr T took his car to another 
garage which replaced the fuel injectors again on 11 January 2018. Mr T later tried to 
reclaim the payment he made from Virgin Money which initially raised a chargeback claim. 
But the chargeback claim wasnt successful and, after several months, Virgin Money offered 
to raise a Section 75 claim. 
Virgin Money says Mr Ts Section 75 claim was unsuccessful because. Virgin Moneys final 
response dated 17 April 2019 says There is no evidence the garage didnt replace the part 
you referred to and they have been able to show us evidence that it was replaced. Mr T 
went on to refer his complaint about the disputed transaction of £458.40 to our service. 
Mr T also complains about a payment of £270 he made on 5 December 2017 to a different 
merchant. The payment was made to a business that tries to retrieve information from 
mobile phones. Mr T contacted Virgin Money and said he didnt think the merchant had 
carried out the work he paid it for. Virgin Money raised a chargeback claim but it wasnt 
successful. Virgin Money explained that the merchant had defended the claim and provided 
information to show Mr T had been charged in line with the terms and conditions he agreed 
to. Mr T also referred this complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at Mr Ts complaints. They thought Virgin Money should refund the 
£458.40 Mr T paid for fuel injectors as hed subsequently had to have them replaced at a 
different garage. But the investigator said the chargeback claim for the mobile phone 
information retrieval had been correctly declined after the merchant defended it and provided 
evidence. The investigator explained that our service was looking at whether Virgin Money 
had acted in line with the chargeback process and that he was satisfied it had. The 
investigator sent Virgin Money a view setting out his recommendation that this complaint 
should be upheld in part on 20 September 2019. 
As no response from Virgin Money was received the investigator sent a follow up email on  8 
October 2019. The investigators email explained that if we didnt receive a response from 
Virgin Money we would take it that it didnt accept and refer the matter to an ombudsman to 
make a decision. 
Mr T did respond to our investigators view. He was pleased that the investigator 
recommended Virgin Money compensate him for the claim he made to the garage but also 
thought his £270 chargeback claim should be refunded. 
As Mr T didnt accept the investigators view and we didnt hear back from Virgin Money, this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by looking at the £270 payment Mr T made on 5 December 2017. The payment was 
made to a merchant that offers services relating to data retrieval from mobile phones. Mr T 
says theres no evidence to show the merchant worked on his phone and that a different 
business had subsequently been able to retrieve his data. Mr T says the merchant pressured 
him into accepting its terms and conditions during a phone call. 
I appreciate Mr Ts frustration that despite paying a large sum the merchant wasnt able to 
retrieve data from his mobile phone. I understand Mr T has concerns over the nature of the 
service provided by the merchant and whether the work was actually completed. But the 
complaint Im looking at isnt about the merchant. Its about Virgin Moneys actions and 
whether it correctly followed the Chargeback process when it dealt with a claim for Mr T. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr T but Im satisfied Virgin Money did follow the correct approach. 
When a Chargeback is raised it can be defended by the merchant. In this case, Virgin 
Money followed the correct steps in terms of the Chargeback claim it raised. But the 
merchant disputed the claim and provided supporting evidence to show Mr T had accepted 
its terms and conditions which said no refund would be due if it wasnt successful. In 
addition, the merchant also provided a technical report that sets out the work it completed 
when investigating Mr Ts phone. I appreciate Mr T was subsequently able to retrieve data 
from another business. But Im satisfied the merchant provided a reasonable defence 
against the Chargeback claim. Ive looked at Virgin Moneys actions but I dont agree it made 
a mistake when Mr Ts chargeback claim was turned down. As a result, Im not telling Virgin 
Money to refund the disputed funds. 
Virgin Money first raised an unsuccessful Chargeback claim for the £458.40 Mr T paid to a 
garage on 28 November 2017. After several months, Virgin Money said it could raise a 
Section 75 claim for Mr T. Our investigator upheld this part of Mr Ts complaint. He said that 
Mr T had provided evidence to show another garage had undertaken remedial work to fix the 
faulty fuel injectors after the original garage refused to help. In the final response to Mr T 
dated 17 April 2019 Virgin Money said there was no evidence the garage didnt replace the 
parts. Mr T says hes unclear as to whether the fuel injectors were replaced by the merchant. 
He says that after his car was repaired by the merchant the problems continued. Despite 
taking the car back to the merchant he ultimately paid another business to fix it. Mr T has 
sent evidence of the costs he incurred from a different garage in support of his claim. 
I note the second invoice is from a reputable garage and includes work to replace the fuel 
injectors on Mr Ts car. Its clear that Mr T had previously paid the original garage for the 
same work. If the original garage had fixed the problem Mr Ts car was experiencing its 
unlikely the same parts would require replacements less than two months later. 
Putting things right
Our investigator explained that in the circumstances he thought there had been a breach of 
contract as the work carried out by the merchant had failed. He recommended the £458.40 
be refunded. 
Virgin Money didnt respond to say whether it agreed or not, despite being chased. I think 
the investigators recommendation is reasonable in the circumstances and I agree Mr Ts 
complaint should be upheld in part. Virgin Money offered Mr T £150 because of how it handled his Chargeback and Section 75 
claims. I agree that there were unnecessary delays and failures to contact Mr T as promised. 
Im satisfied that £150 fairly reflects the impact of Virgin Moneys service and errors so Im 
not going to tell it to increase the award.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Virgin Money plc to pay Mr T £458.40 
plus £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman