DRN-2618910
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to prevent two payments 
of £7.99 from leaving his account under a continuous payment authority for Amazon Prime 
membership, which he says he didnt authorise.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There is no evidence available to suggest that the continuous payment authority was 
not requested by Mr T, or that the subsequent payments made under it were 
unauthorised. He made a purchase from Amazon on 15 June 2020, and the charge 
for Amazon Primes membership was debited around one month later in July 2020 
(and then again in August 2020). 
This pattern indicates that membership was likely selected by Mr T (which typically 
charges around a month later) when he made his purchase with Amazon in June 
2020. I appreciate he may not have known he had done this, but theres no 
persuasive evidence to indicate that his details were used by anyone else to sign up 
for Amazon membership (or that any fraudster could seemingly obtain much benefit 
from doing so, as the membership wouldve attached to Mr Ts account). So Im not 
persuaded this was a scam, and it instead seems more likely that Mr T had 
inadvertently signed up for membership. I therefore do not think Halifax acted 
unreasonably by failing to prevent these payments from being made, as theyd been 
presented with a continuous payment authority for them to be debited.
Mr T is unhappy that Halifax asked him to contact Amazon in the first instance. But 
given that the company was a known retailer to him, and one in which he had made a 
recent purchase, I dont think it was inappropriate for Halifax to ask Mr T to contact 
Amazon first in these circumstances to establish what had happened. And I note that 
this did lead to him obtaining a refund of the disputed payments.
Even if I were to agree that Halifax ought to have prevented the payments from being 
debited (which I do not), Mr T has since had the money refunded from Amazon, so 
there has been no financial loss in this instance. And Im not persuaded that such 
circumstances would warrant a payment of compensation in any event. So I will not 
be asking Halifax to make any award. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr T. But in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that Halifax have done nothing substantially wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman