DRN-1000540
complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly deducted an excess of 
£150 from an agreed settlement under his car insurance policy.
what happened
In 2018 Mr Cs car was damaged. He made a claim with Aviva which was accepted, and it 
offered £1,204 in settlement for the vehicle. Mr C accepted this offer but was unhappy Aviva 
then deducted £150 excess from this figure - leaving him with £1,054.
Mr C complained to Aviva, he said hed accepted the offer and his acceptance created a 
legally binding contract  so it should refund him £150.
Aviva said the policy clearly said the excess would need to be paid, regardless of how the 
loss or damage happened. And it felt it had clearly explained this to Mr C.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. The investigator said Mr C had made it known he was aware of the excess on 
the policy. And having looked at the policy himself he said he'd expect Aviva to deduct an 
excess from the settlement figure - and this is what it did. So he didn't uphold the complaint.
Mr C disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In this case Mr C hasnt disputed the cash settlement figure hes been given for his vehicle 
as he accepted this. Instead he has complained that Aviva unfairly deducted an excess from 
this settlement after it was agreed. So Ive looked into whats happened and what Aviva 
should have done under its policy.
Mr Cs policy explains that an excess would be deducted regardless of how a claim 
happened. And from my experience this is typical across car insurance policies.
After Aviva gave Mr C an initial settlement figure, he said he should be given more based on 
adverts hed seen. Following a back and forth email discussion with Aviva, it said it was 
going to revise its offer. And said it would provide an average between its initial settlement 
value, alongside an online vehicle valuation guide, and a car advert Mr C provided.
Mr C said its revised offer of £1,204 did not mention any deduction of excess. As the topic of 
conversation was regarding the value of the vehicle, I wouldnt have expected it to include the excess deduction. So I dont think Aviva was unclear in what it said when giving this 
settlement offer. And as a result I think it was still reasonable for it to deduct the excess as it 
did. 
Mr C has said under contract law he believes Avivas email mentioning a figure of £1,204 
was an offer, and that he accepted it. As Ive said, I have taken the law into account but also 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And overall for the reasons Ive 
given, I think Aviva has deducted its excess from the settlement figure fairly, and in line with 
its policy terms. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman