DRN-2021982
The complaint
Mr N says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaints about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The PPI was added to 
Mr Ns credit card account after he spoke to MBNA over the phone to activate the card. It 
helped protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr N disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
MBNA had to make Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and get his agreement before 
adding it. From the evidence Ive seen, I think it did that. Although I dont have a copy of a 
recording of the sale, the sales script MBNAs provided showing how it likely sold PPI over 
the phone suggests it would have given him the option to decline the PPI. So, I see no 
reason to uphold the complaint on this basis.
I dont think MBNA recommended the PPI to Mr N, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information about it so 
he could decide for himself if it was right. I dont know if it did that, although thats not in itself 
enough for me to uphold the complaint. Instead, I must go on to consider whether Mr N lost 
out because of any failings by MBNA. 
Given Mr Ns circumstances, I dont think he did lose out. I think hed have decided to buy 
the PPI even if hed been provided with all the relevant information. I say that because:
I understand Mr N was eligible for the PPI. And I cant see that he would have been 
affected by any of its main restrictions and limitations. For example, he didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions or unusual work arrangements.
Mr N was only entitled to enhanced sick pay for less than three months. Hed have 
received some redundancy pay although its unclear how much. On the other hand, 
the PPI provided cover for up to 12 months per unemployment claim and potentially 
until the outstanding balance was paid off for disability claims. Overall, I think hed 
have seen the PPI as providing him with useful protection.  
The PPI premium  which was paid on a monthly basis  was competitive when 
compared with other PPI available on the market at the time. I think Mr N would have 
seen the policy as affordable despite what he now says about being in financial 
difficulty at the time. If hed decided he no longer wanted the PPI, he could have 
cancelled it at any time at no extra cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ns lost out because of how MBNA sold 
him PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman