DRN-3204746
The complaint
Mr I has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS, the national fraud prevention agency.
What happened
In early 2017, Mr Is NatWest account received a large sum of money, which was then 
withdrawn in cash or spent in large amounts on consumer goods.
NatWest received notification that the funds were proceeds of fraud. They closed Mr Is 
account and registered a marker at CIFAS. Mr I was a minor at the time.
Initially, Mr I told NatWest that his wallet had been stolen with his card and PIN, and hed 
been unaware of how his account was used. But NatWest said it would not have been 
possible to have carried out the fraud with just Mr Is card and PIN  for example, other 
details were needed to transfer the money into his account in the first place.
Mr I complained in late 2017, and in early 2018 NatWest confirmed that it would not remove 
the marker.
In 2021, Mr I complained again. He explained that hed made up his previous story as hed 
been afraid to tell the truth to his parents. And the matter had made him feel so sick hed not 
been able to deal with it in the intervening time. He provided evidence from his doctor that 
hed been signed off work for months due to his mental health.
Mr I explained that hed been approached in the street by a man with a child, who asked for 
help. The man said he was unable to open a UK account and couldnt use cash machines 
because of foreign fees. But he needed someone to help him pay for things for his child.
Mr I says the man built a rapport with him, flattered him, kept emphasising this was for his 
child, and so convinced Mr I to help. Mr I agreed to let the man transfer money into his 
account. Then on the mans instructions, he either withdrew the money in cash and gave it to 
the man, or spent it on goods for the mans family. Mr I said that as it went on he felt 
uncomfortable, but just wanted to get it done with. He said he didnt know the money had 
come from any fraud  the man had assured him the money had come from a business he 
owned abroad, and had convinced him it was all legitimate. Mr I explained he was only a 
minor himself, who was just trying to help. Mr I provided a copy of the text conversations 
hed had with the man before the man blocked him.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr I and NatWest a provisional decision on 27 October 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I note NatWest mentioned that Mr I did not bring his complaint within six months of its 
original final response letter in 2018. But I can see that NatWest reinvestigated the case and 
issued a new final response letter in April 2021. In that letter, NatWest made new points and 
gave Mr I new referral rights, telling him he had six months from the date of that letter to 
come to our service. I think the second final response letter implicitly withdrew the first, and 
so Mr I had six months from April 2021 to bring his complaint to our service. He brought his 
complaint to us that same month, which was within the six-month period. I think Mr I brought 
this complaint to us in time.
In terms of the substance of the complaint, I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS 
was made fairly and whether it should remain. On this point, NatWest needed to have 
reasonable grounds to believe that Mr I had knowingly and willingly taken part in the fraud. 
This had to go beyond just a suspicion or concern, with appropriate supporting evidence.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think NatWest had reasonable grounds to add the marker. 
But I think that, given the new evidence thats come to light, the marker should now be 
removed. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr I has sent us records of his text conversations with the fraudster. He sent them in the 
form of pictures taken of his phone from another device, rather than screenshots that could 
have been more easily doctored. I find this evidence to be particularly persuasive. These 
pictures strongly substantiate what Mr I said he was told. For example, I can see where the 
fraudster reiterated that the money was for his child, confirmed it was legitimate and came 
from his business, gave Mr I instructions to withdraw cash and give it to him, and so on.
Further, the reference on the payment Mr I received also matches the type of business the 
fraudster said he owned, which I imagine made things that much more convincing.
I find Mr Is latest testimony to be broadly plausible. He was only a minor at the time, and 
I can see how he might have been taken in  not least as he would not have been 
experienced in financial matters and would not have necessarily known to question things 
more deeply than he did. Indeed, many adults are taken in by less sophisticated scams than 
this one.
There was only a very small (and rather insignificant) amount left over in Mr Is account from 
the fraudulent funds, so Im not confident that he really benefitted from this matter. And this 
bank account appears to have been genuine  receiving Mr Is wages and being used for his 
own spending before and after the fraud.
So I am not currently satisfied that Mr I knowingly and willingly took part in the fraud. I think 
its more likely that he was deceived into helping the fraudster unwittingly. And so I think the 
CIFAS marker should be removed.
Mr I has candidly detailed the stress and anguish that this situation has caused him  such 
as its effects on his mental and physical health, its effects on his ability to study or work, and 
the troubles hes faced in getting a bank account. And so understandably, hes asked for 
compensation from NatWest.The issue here is that I think its primarily the fraudster who is responsible for what happened 
here, rather than NatWest. Indeed, I think NatWest acted reasonably based on what they 
knew at the time.
I can understand why, at his age and under pressure, Mr I created his initial story about 
losing his card and PIN. But in doing so, it meant that NatWest were in a situation where:
they had solid evidence that their customer had received and sent on fraudulent 
money;
they had solid evidence that the transactions would need to have happened with their 
customers consent; and-
their customer had given them a clearly false version of events.
Based on those facts, NatWest had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr I had knowingly 
and willingly taken part in the fraud. And they had the appropriate evidence to support such 
a conclusion, taking things beyond just a suspicion or concern. At the time, they did not have 
Mr Is latest testimony, nor the evidence hes provided to our service to support it.
So I think NatWest acted reasonably in adding the CIFAS marker, based on the information 
they had at the time  even if I think it should now be removed in light of the new evidence. 
I can also understand why NatWest  and our investigator  were hesitant to remove the 
CIFAS marker later, given how contradictory Mr Is testimony had been.
So in light of the above, I do not think I can fairly tell NatWest to pay Mr I compensation here.
There is one aspect where I think NatWest can reasonably help further, though. I understand 
that Mr I has applied for accounts and been turned down due to the CIFAS marker. I also 
understand that some of these applications left hard searches on his credit file, which may 
be looked at negatively. So in addition to removing the CIFAS marker, I think NatWest 
should provide Mr I with a letter stating that the marker was erroneous. That way, Mr I can 
present such a letter to the firms who turned him down. He can then ask them if they would 
remove the searches from his credit file if their rejection was due to a CIFAS marker that 
shouldnt have been there  or perhaps to even reconsider their rejection. This may help Mr I 
to piece things back together after everything thats happened.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 November 2021. Mr I let us know he was satisfied with the provisional decision, and 
neither party sent me any new evidence or arguments to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Remove the CIFAS marker in dispute, along with any related fraud markers (if 
applicable); and-
Provide Mr I with a letter stating that the fraud marker was erroneous.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman