DRN-2702205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined their 
mortgage application, despite having issued them with an agreement in principle (AIP).
What happened
In June 202 Mr and Mrs G approached Santander with the intention of increasing their 
mortgage borrowing to purchase a bigger house. As existing Santander mortgage 
customers, Mr and Mrs G intended to port their existing mortgage product to the new 
mortgage. 
Santander provided Mr and Mrs G with an AIP based on the initial information it had taken 
from them. Mr and Mrs G then paid a £1,000 deposit for a new-build house they intended to 
buy, and accepted an offer on the sale of their house. 
When Mr and Mrs G proceeded to apply for the mortgage that Santander had provisionally 
agreed, their application was declined. Santander says this was because Mr and Mrs G had 
too much unsecured credit as a proportion of their income. It also said there was adverse 
credit on their credit file.
Santander has since explained that the mortgage wasnt declined for the adverse credit file 
information. It has explained that the timing of the application had meant one of Mr and Mrs 
Gs payments hadnt been recorded on their credit file; but it has also explained that even 
without this, the application would still have declined due to the amount of borrowing that Mr 
and Mrs G had elsewhere. 
Following the declined application, Mr and Mrs G employed the services of a financial 
adviser. The adviser was able to find Mr and Mrs G a mortgage with a different lender. This 
meant that Mr and Mrs G had to repay their Santander mortgage whilst fixed into an existing 
deal  so they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of £3,540. They also say that 
the misinformation given to them about there being adverse information on their credit file 
caused unnecessary stress and anxiety, at an already stressful time. 
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Santanders response to their complaint about the 
situation, so once of our investigators looked at things. Having done so, she didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She explained that whilst its unfortunately that 
Santanders decision not to lend caused inconvenience and stress, the agreement in 
principle it had provided didnt guarantee that the application would be approved. She also 
considered the misinformation given about there being adverse credit file data. But she 
concluded that this hadnt affected the outcome of the lending application, so she didnt think 
Santander needed to put anything right.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They explained that the practice of 
lenders providing AIPs is redundant if the lender could later decide not to lend, despite 
initially saying they could.  They also explained that Santander effectively caused them to be 
homeless after they continued with the sale of their property and had to vacate it without 
having a new property to move into. 
As the case still hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G but having considered everything, Im 
not upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
An agreement in principle isnt an offer to lend, nor a commitment that the business will lend. 
AIPs serve to give borrowers a guideline of how much they could borrow, and whether the 
lender might be prepared to lend to them. This is usually based on some brief eligibility 
checks and financial questions, such as the borrowers typical income and expenditure. At 
the AIP stage information provided isnt verified, and a credit check isnt carried out. And I 
think that in this case, Santander made that clear from the outset and throughout its 
interactions with Mr and Mrs G. I say this because in at least three of the calls with 
Santander (in May, June, and July 2020) Mr G was told that although Santander could give 
him an idea of what they could lend with an agreement in principle, any lending would still be 
subject to a full application, including underwriters approval.  
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G believe Santander gave their financial adviser incorrect 
information about the reason their mortgage application declined. And its fair to say that 
Santander couldve been clearer  as it did initially say that part of the decline reason was 
due to adverse credit file information. But even if this hadnt happened  and even if 
Santander had only given the correct information  the fact remains that the mortgage still 
wouldve declined. So whilst I understand that in the short-term it mightve been alarming for 
Mr and Mrs G to hear that they had adverse information on their credit files, it seems that 
they were able to find a mortgager elsewhere, and this information being incorrect didnt 
affect the sequence of events that followed. Nor did it mean Santander reached the wrong 
lending decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs G say that their financial adviser has told them that there are no 
specific debt-to-income ratio rules that Santander needs to follow when considering whether 
to approve a mortgage application. Whilst this may be true, each business has its own 
lending criteria  setting out the principles and guidance on how it lends  which is standard 
industry practice. Whilst Santander doesnt have to follow specific rules when deciding who 
to lend to, it does need to ensure it lends responsibly, and make sure that any applications 
are approved within its risk appetite and in line with its own lending policy. And having 
considered this policy, as well as Santanders overall duty to lend responsibly, I havent 
concluded that it acted unfairly by judging that Mr and Mrs Gs debt to income ratio exceeds 
what it considers to be acceptable, and therefore declined their application.  
Mr and Ms G have explained that they paid a deposit on the new property as a result of 
Santander providing them with an AIP. And I can certainly understand why Mr and Mrs G are 
now unhappy that Santander then couldnt lend to them. I fully appreciate how frustrating this 
has been for Mr and Mrs G, but the practice of issuing AIPs is fairly standard across the 
industry, and only uses basic information in order to give customers an indication of whether 
theyd be eligible to borrow from a lender, and approximately how much they could borrow. A 
full mortgage application takes into account more information, such as by verifying income 
and performing a credit search. Santander made Mr G aware of this during several phone 
calls, so I cant say that Santander was wrong to decline the application even though it had 
issued an AIP. I do realise that Mr and Mrs G are unlikely to agree with me on this point, but Im afraid I dont find this unreasonable, albeit I acknowledge that it wouldve been very 
disappointing. 
Mr and Mrs G also say that they had to pay an ERC to end their existing Santander 
mortgage early, to avoid losing the £1,000 deposit that theyd paid on the property they 
intended to buy. I can see why it wouldve been frustrating to find themselves in this difficult 
situation, where theyd either have had to lose their deposit or pay the ERC on their 
Santander mortgage. But because I havent concluded that Santander acted unfairly by 
declining the mortgage application, I cant hold Santander responsible for any losses that Mr 
and Mrs G made as a result of this.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G have requested that the ERC is refunded as a result of the 
declined application, and the misinformation that Santander gave them in respect of the 
reason for the declined application. But Id only expect Santander to put things right where it 
had done something wrong  thats to say in this instance, if it had incorrectly charged the 
ERC and this had caused a financial loss. But as Mr and Mrs Gs existing mortgage was 
fixed until September 2021, and as Mr and Mrs G chose to end it before then, I havent 
concluded that the ERC was charged incorrectly. So Santander doesnt need to refund it.   
Although I havent specifically referenced every point Mr and Mrs G have raised, Ive thought 
carefully about everything theyve said when reaching my decision. And having done so, Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman