DRN-3650916
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the information he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard in relation to the repayment plan for his credit card account. Mr J is unhappy 
with the customer service he received. 
What happened
Mr J entered into a repayment plan with Barclaycard for his credit card account in 
September 2020. The plan meant Mr J would pay £20 per month for 12 months. No interest 
would be applied to Mr Js account during this time. 
Mr J contacted Barclays about his repayment plan on a number of occasions. In summary, 
the main points Mr J has raised are that Barclaycard:
Provided conflicting and unclear information about the payments for his plan. 
Recorded inaccurate information on his credit file.
Left him on hold during a phone call for almost three hours. 
Wouldnt accept his payments over the phone.
Sent inaccurate information about arrears on the account.  
Has not acted responsibly or professionally in dealing with his concerns.  
Barclaycard reviewed Mr Js concerns and accepted that the level of service it had provided 
on occasions fell short of what Mr J had the right to expect. This included the wait time he 
experienced on the phone and some of the information he received which wasnt very clear. 
It apologised for these issues and offered Mr J compensation totalling £50. 
But Barclaycard said it had it had a legal obligation to send Mr J letters about the position of 
his account and the information it had recorded about Mr Js account on his credit file was 
accurate. So, it didnt uphold this part of Mr Js complaint.
Mr J remained unhappy with Barclaycards review of his concerns and referred his complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. Overall, he felt Barclaycard had 
treated Mr J fairly but he acknowledged that some service issues warranted compensation. 
He thought it would be fair for Barclaycard to increase the offer of compensation to £100. 
Barclaycard agreed to increase its offer to this amount. But Mr J didnt agree with the 
outcome the investigator reached and he added that Barclaycard had also incorrectly placed 
his account on hold. The investigator looked into what Mr J had said and found that 
Barclaycard had responded separately to this additional point. He said that Barclaycard had 
apologised and offered £25 compensation for the confusion its letter had caused. And it had 
explained that Mr Js account was placed on hold to prevent charges and interest being 
applied. So, he didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything more. Overall, he felt the 
£125 compensation offered by Barclaycard in relation to all the complaint points Mr J had 
raised was fair.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me  an ombudsman 
 for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching 
a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Im sorry to hear of the issues Mr J has experienced with his account. Its not in dispute that 
the service provided by Barclaycard hasnt always been acceptable.- Mr J has been 
provided with some unclear and inaccurate information at times and he has had to spend 
time and effort contacting Barclaycard to resolve these issues which I appreciate must have 
been stressful for him given his medical situation and the impact of this on his finances. So, 
Ive given careful thought to whether the subsequent actions taken by Barclaycard is enough 
to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr J encountered. 
Firstly, I think its important to clarify that its not in dispute that Mr J was struggling to make 
his contractual credit card payments and he asked Barclaycard for support. And Im satisfied 
that Mr J got the support he needed. Barclaycard offered Mr J a repayment plan. This meant 
he was allowed to make reduced payments. I can see that later there was some confusion 
about Mr Js account being put on hold, but Barclaycard has explained this was to ensure 
that charges and interest due were suspended. As suspending charges and interest is 
another remedy a business can apply when a consumer is facing financial problems, Im 
satisfied that Barclaycards actions were reasonable. Barclaycard has accepted its letter 
explaining Mr Js account was on hold may have been confusing and it has offered £25 
compensation. Overall, I think this is fair.   
Although Mr J had entered a repayment plan with Barclays, he continued to receive letters 
about missed payments and his account being in arrears. I have no doubt that these letters 
must have been worrying for Mr J, especially as he had entered into a repayment plan and 
wanted to prevent his account from going into default. But as Mr J was not making the 
necessary contractual repayments to his account, Im satisfied that Barclaycard is under a 
legal duty to write to him about what this meant. I understand that the letters might have 
caused some confusion as they said Mr Js account was in arrears when he was making the 
payments hed agreed. But as Mr Js payments were less than his contractual payments his 
account was in arrears. Barclaycard was obliged to set out, in writing, the impact of not 
meeting the contractual repayments would have on Mr Js account and his most importantly 
his credit file. So, although I understand the confusion these letters and notices may have 
caused, I consider the correspondence to have been necessary to ensure Barclaycard was 
doing it all it needed to in relation to Mr Js account. 
Mr J has concerns about how Barclaycard has recorded information on his credit file. 
Barclaycard has confirmed Mr Js account is not in default, and no default has been added to 
his credit file. But Barclaycard is required to record information with the credit reference 
agencies about the repayment plan i.e. to show he was not meeting his contractual 
payments. Barclaycards most recent update to our service suggests Mr J is now meeting his 
contractual repayments, so I would expect Mr Js credit file to reflect this from the point he 
recommenced his contractual payments. Burt overall, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Barclaycard has reported information inaccurately. So, Im not persuaded it has to make any 
amendments to Mr Js credit file for the period he was unable to make his contractual 
payments. Barclaycard has accepted that there were some short comings in the service it provided 
when Mr J had cause to contact it about his repayment plan. Its not in dispute that he was 
given some incorrect information in September 2020. Mr J was initially told that he had not 
made any payments towards his repayment plan and so it had been cancelled.
While Mr J was initially given wrong information, Im persuaded that this didnt have a drawn-
out impact on him. I say this because Ive seen that Mr J was ultimately given the correct 
information on the same day. I can also see that when Barclaycard reviewed Mr Js 
complaint about this point, it accepted the information initially provided was incorrect and 
apologised for this. The compensation of £25 Barclaycard offered was made in part to cover 
this issue. Barclays also clearly set out the exact dates Mr J was due to make repayments in 
its final response letter of 3 November 2021, ensuring he had a written copy of the dates to 
assist him with payments going forward. So, Im satisfied Barclays has done enough to put 
things right here.
Mr J says he was left on hold during a phone call with Barclays in January 2021 for almost 
three hours. Barclays has said Mr J was not on hold for this long. Looking at the available 
evidence, I agree that Mr J was left on hold for an unreasonable amount of time. I appreciate 
this must have been frustrating for Mr J, especially as he was looking for information about 
his repayment plan in light of the letters he had received. Barclays has apologised for this 
delay and offered £25 in recognition of its shortcomings. It also says feedback has been 
given to the relevant member of staff and the manager responsible. Barclays has taken pro-
active steps here, and while I understand Mr J doesnt think it has done enough, given the 
circumstances I wouldnt expect it to do anything beyond this.
When Mr Js repayment plan was set up, he attempted to make a payment over the phone in 
January 2021. This was not possible as the call handler at the time was unable to process 
the payment. Barclaycard has explained this was due to a technical issue with its system 
during a call with Mr J. I understand this must have been worrying for Mr J, but Barclaycard 
explained the issue and assured Mr J that it was being looked into. The call handler also 
offered to assist Mr J in making the payment online. Mr J was told £50 would be credited to 
his account in light of the issues, but this wasnt actioned. Overall, I cant see that this issue 
had a lasting negative impact on Mr J, as it seems he was eventually able to make the 
payment, and there was no adverse impact on his repayment plan.
I understand Mr Js dealings with Barclays about his account have been a source and stress 
and concern. And I agree there have been some shortcomings on Barclays part. But it has 
recognised these and taken steps to address them. Overall, I consider the level of service Mr 
J received to be reasonable and Barclays has shown its willingness to assist Mr J in 
managing his account, to reach the best possible outcome given the circumstances.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr J was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Barclays to take any further steps than already outlined. 
Putting things right
Barclaycard has said it will work with Mr J going forward if he needs assistance managing 
his account and the outstanding balance. In addition to this Barclaycard should pay Mr J 
£125 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience suffered during his 
dealings with it. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman