DRN-2976318
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) mishandled his claim on 
a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Direct Line, I include its glass replacement company and any others for 
whose actions I hold Direct Line responsible. 
What happened
Mr G had his car insured on a policy with Direct Line. It included cover for damaged 
windscreen glass. Mr G made a claim for that and on 5 September 2019, Direct Line 
replaced his windscreen.
About six months later, on 14 March 2020, Mr G reported a leak from the replacement 
windscreen onto the carpets. On 19 March 2020, Direct Line refitted the glass.
On 25 May 2020, Mr G reported that the carpets were still wet and smelly. Direct Line 
arranged for a valet. From 4 June 2020, Mr G told Direct Line that the carpets were still 
smelly.
On 25 June 2020, Direct Line referred Mr G to a garage. 
Mr G complained to Direct Line that he hadnt had the use of his car for weeks. He also 
complained about poor communication.
In late July 2020, the garage replaced the carpets on behalf of Direct Line while Mr G had a 
courtesy car for about a week. 
By a final response dated 29 September 2020, Direct Line offered Mr G £350.00 
compensation plus any expenses of public transport. Direct Line said Mr G had declined its 
offer.
On 26 March 2021, Mr G brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
£350.00 was fair and responsible. The investigator said that the provision of a car for a week 
in July 2020 was as a gesture of goodwill, and in recognition of the fact that the repairer had 
caused the problem.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He listened to Direct Lines advice that the carpets would dry with no mention of the 
resultant smell this would cause.
Direct Line replied very quickly when they thought a valet would suffice.
The valet service gave its opinion that the carpets would have to be replaced but 
carried out the service as instructed.
Direct Line never called him again when obviously the carpets had to be replaced.
If they had replied this would have been resolved weeks earlier.
He pays for a car and its upkeep and Direct Lines incompetence resulted in not having 
the use of the car as and when required.
He didnt keep a record of expenses incurred and doesnt think it would be 
appropriate to guess.
His complaint is for the damage to his car which Direct Line eventually repaired 18 
weeks later.
He was given a courtesy car because his car was being repaired due to their 
incompetence. It wasnt as a goodwill gesture.
He waited patiently for the smell to disappear which it eventually did in 
January/February 2021.
He is at a loss to understand how it is fair and reasonable to be offered less than 
£20.00 per week as compensation.
The compensation should reflect that their repairer caused the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Direct Line shouldve got the replacement right first time. There shouldnt 
have been any need for re-fitting or remedial work  or any need for a courtesy car.
By March 2020, Mr G had found a leak. And Direct Line arranged to re-fit the windscreen. So 
I accept that Direct Line hadnt done a satisfactory repair the first time.
The re-fitting was just before the first lockdown for Covid-19. So I find it likely that Mr G didnt 
need his car as much as usual.  A couple of months passed before Mr G contacted Direct 
Line again about wet and smelly carpets.
Direct Line arranged a valet. On 4 June. Mr G called Direct Line but it didnt call him back as 
it shouldve done. I dont doubt that this caused further delay and inconvenience.
I think Mr G is measuring 18 weeks from about 14 March 2020 (when Direct Line re-fitted the 
glass) to about  20 July 2020 (when the garage replaced the carpets). That corresponds with 
the first lockdown and restrictions for Covid-19.
But if there was any problem with Mr Gs carpets after about 14 March 2020, I wouldve 
expected Mr G to contact Direct Line. And, for the period of about 10 weeks from about 14 
March to about 25 May 2020, Mr G didnt contact Direct Line. So I dont accept that there 
was a problem that was causing his car to be unusable during that period.I consider that there were shortcomings in the repair and communication for which Direct 
Line was responsible. And I dont doubt that these caused Mr G distress and inconvenience 
at an already difficult time for him. 
I dont find it fair to assess compensation by reference to what a hire car wouldve cost. 
Direct Line re-fitted the glass, arranged a valet and later replaced the carpets while Mr G had 
a courtesy car for a week. Overall Im satisfied that the offer of £350.00 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Im satisfied that -  after the final response - Mr G brought his complaint to us within the time 
limit of six months.
If Mr G wishes to accept the offer of £350.00, he should contact Direct Line. I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Direct Line to pay Mr G any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct U K Insurance Limited 
(trading as Direct Line) to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman