DRN-3238109
Complaint
Mr H has complained about the overdraft charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied to 
his current account. Hes also said he was erroneous sent text messages about his balance.
Background
Mr Hs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Santander 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. So while Mr H might have wished to be charged less to use his overdraft when 
he did (Im not aware of any account which would have limited his arranged overdraft 
charges to £5 a month irrespective of his overdrawn balance), I cant say this is something 
Santander ought to have offered him.
That said, Santander wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr Hs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where Santander continued charging Mr H 
even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. 
Ive looked through Mr Hs account transactions throughout the period concerned. And I 
cant see that Santander ought to have been aware that Mr H might have been struggling 
during the period weve looked at. Mr H did use his overdraft and he might argue that this in 
itself was indicative Santander ought to have acted on the charges. But while Im not seeking 
to make retrospective value judgements over Mr H expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr H wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Santander to potential financial difficulty and which meant that it 
would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr H, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think Santander charged Mr H in circumstances where it ought to have realised 
that it was unfair to do so. As this is the case, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly.
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about the text messages he was sent in error. I 
can appreciate why it must have been frustrating to receive text messages with an incorrect 
balance. But while this is the case, bearing in mind his account usage, I dont think that Mr H 
lost out because of this or that these text messages would have caused him to pay overdraft 
charges he wouldnt otherwise have paid irrespective of the text messages. So Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint either.
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially as it has taken sometime for his 
complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman