The complaint
Mr Q complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr Q was given 28 loans by Sunny between August 2016 and April 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments but Mr Q generally repaid the loans far 
earlier than planned. At times Mr Q had up to three loans outstanding at the same time. 
Mr Q appears to have faced problems repaying three of his later loans - needing to reduce 
his repayment amounts and extend the term of the loans. But all of Mr Qs loans have now 
been fully repaid and a summary of some of his borrowing from Sunny is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/08/2016 30/11/2016 £  500
2 09/09/2016 31/10/2016 £  100
3 14/10/2016 30/11/2016 £  150
4 11/11/2016 24/12/2016 £  250
5 02/12/2016 24/12/2016 £  350
6 24/12/2016 29/03/2017 £  500
7 03/03/2017 29/03/2017 £  200
8 29/03/2017 27/05/2017 £  350
9 09/04/2017 27/05/2017 £  150
10 06/05/2017 27/05/2017 £  200
: : : :
: : : :
27 31/03/20
18 27/04/20
18 £  50
28 29/04/2018 06/09/2019 £  250
Mr Qs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Sunny had 
been wrong to give the first seven loans to Mr Q. But she didnt think Sunny should have 
agreed to lend the remaining loans. So she asked Sunny to pay Mr Q some compensation.
DRN-1738715Sunny didnt agree with that assessment. But it did agree to pay the recommended 
compensation in respect of loan 17 onwards. Mr Q didn't accept that offer. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr Q could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr Q. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Sunny.As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Qs loans was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Mr Q needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. And at times Mr Q had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to 
consider the total amount that Mr Q needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think the fact that Mr Q typically repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account when looking at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mr Q.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first three loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr Q needed to repay were relatively small compared with the disposable 
income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Qs 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr Q asked for loan 4, that Sunny should have realised that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. I think it should have 
taken steps from that point to independently verify Mr Qs true financial position before 
agreeing future loans. But that in itself doesn't mean Mr Q's complaint about these loans 
should be upheld. I'd need to be persuaded that better checks would have shown Sunny it 
wasn't sustainable to lend to Mr Q at that time. And from the information Mr Q has sent to 
us Im not able to say that better checks would have shown Sunny that it shouldnt have lent 
to Mr Q from loan 4 onwards.
But looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr Q I think by loan 8 the 
lender should have reached the point where it would reasonably have concluded that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt provide further loans.
This was now Mr Qs eighth loan request in just over seven months - he had been indebted 
to Sunny for the whole of that time with no gaps. Each of the loans Mr Q had taken had been 
repayable over a period of six months. But Mr Q had started to regularly pay off those loans 
far earlier than planned, before borrowing similar amounts very shortly afterwards. I think 
that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Sunny that 
Mr Q was most likely having significant problems managing his money.
When Mr Q asked for loan 8 he wasnt making any serious inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan 8 was one of the largest loans he'd taken to date and it was followed just 
over a week later by another loan.
Following loan 8 Mr Q's borrowing pattern continued. He often had multiple loans active at 
the same time. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr Q was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances 
and that Mr Qs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr Q lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 
onwards. These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Qs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
The sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Qs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.So I don't think Sunny should have lent to Mr Q from loan 8 onwards. Sunny needs to pay 
Mr Q some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr Q after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 29 March 2017 (loan 8). So Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr Q on the loans.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 8 to 28 should be removed from
Mr Qs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Qs complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman