DRN-2277676
The complaint
Miss M complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) wont provide her with a letter of 
indemnity after she was stopped by the police for driving her car without a valid motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 April 2020, Miss M bought a motor insurance policy with esure online through a price 
comparison website. The policy documents were made available to Miss M on the same day 
through esures online portal.
On 20 April 2020, Miss M was stopped by the police while driving her car. They pointed out 
that her insurance documents related to a different car with a different registration number. 
They said she would be prosecuted for driving without insurance, for which she would 
receive a fine and penalty points on her licence.
Miss M complained to esure. It issued amended policy documents, at an increased premium, 
as from 21 April 2020 when Miss M had contacted it to tell it of the error. However, it didnt 
accept it had made any mistake in administering her policy. 
It said that policies accepted through a price comparison website were handled by an 
automated process without esure viewing the information they contained. When the policy 
documents were issued, policyholders were asked to check the information they contained 
to ensure it was accurate, and to contact esure if changes were required. But Miss M hadnt 
contacted esure until after she was stopped by the police. So esure wasnt prepared to 
assist her further regarding the prosecution.
Miss M complained to us. She said she had paid esure for insurance, and thought it should 
provide her with a letter confirming she would have been covered if she had had an 
accident.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He pointed to the 
following terms of Miss Ms policy:
Your policy wording
This policy booklet gives you full details of your cover. Your policy is made up of:
 Policy Booklet
 Optional Extras Booklet (if applicable)
 Schedule
 Certificate of Motor Insurance
These documents need to be read together as they all form part of the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Its really important that you understand the cover that you have bought and 
that it meets all your needs.
Your Schedule is a summary of all the details you have given to us and tells you the cover 
we have agreed to provide. Please check this to make sure everything is correct. If 
something is wrong or needs to be changed during the year, please call us on 0345 603 
7874. This is important so your cover does not become invalid.
All these documents, including updated versions, can be found in your Customer Portal 
should you need to refer to them or require copies. You have access to your Portal 24 hours 
a day. Please ensure you have created a login and password for this.
The policy schedule issued to Miss M on 13 April 2020 also contained the following 
prominent wording:
What you need to do now
Please check this document carefully. 
It contains all the information you provided to us. You are required to take reasonable care 
that this information is true and complete. If the information is wrong, incomplete or changes 
during the year, call us immediately on 0345 603 7874 and tell us the changes. Otherwise, 
we may reject or reduce any claim you make or even treat you as being uninsured.
So the policy documents made it clear Miss M was responsible for ensuring all the 
information provided to esure was correct, and if it wasnt, she would need to contact it.  
Miss M entered the information on the price comparison website which was passed through 
to esure. The policy documents which were made available to Miss M on esures portal on 
13 April 2020 clearly highlighted the car which was to be insured by the policy, which wasnt 
Miss Ms car. 
Miss M failed to check and correct the information on the policy documents before she was 
stopped by the police. So the investigator couldnt say that esure had done anything wrong, 
or ask it to do anything further.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that she couldnt understand how this had happened 
to her. She had taken out and paid for an insurance policy. However, she had been left with 
no insurance at all  not even third party. She wanted esure to provide a letter saying it 
would have covered her at least for the minimum insurance legally required if she had had 
an accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a legal requirement that a driver must have a valid insurance policy in force for a motor 
vehicle before they take it out on the road. When Miss M was stopped by the police, the 
policy she had in force didnt cover her car.
The reason Miss M was driving without insurance was that she failed to check the 
documents esure issued to her. We expect policyholders to do this when they take out an 
insurance policy.  Esure isnt willing to say it would nevertheless have provided cover in 
respect of her car if it had been involved in an accident. This isnt something I can 
reasonably require it to do. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman