DRN-4008850
The complaint
Miss J complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly gave her £5,000 instead of the £7,000 in 
cash shed asked for when she made a withdrawal from her account.
What happened
Miss J explains that she needed cash to pay a builder and ordered this from Santander. She 
went to a branch on 25 August 2022 to collect the money. Miss J says that the cashier 
initially said the amount being withdrawn was £5,000 and which Miss J said wasnt correct. 
Miss J says she was handed one package which she believed contained £7,000 and wasnt 
asked if she wanted to count it. She says she was told it had been checked twice and 
countersigned. She needed a further £500 and was told she could only withdraw £300 from 
the branch cash machine which she then did, and she took out the remaining £200 the 
following day from a different cash machine. Miss J says she went home from the branch 
and put the money in her safe. When she came to pay the builder on 30 August 2022 and 
took the money out of the safe he told her that this was only £5,000 in the envelope and not 
£7,000. And the package she had said that there were 250 £20 notes. She is sure she didnt 
receive any other packages.
Santander said that it hadnt made a mistake in the branch. The cashiers transactions had 
been checked and the cashier didnt consider that she had given Miss J the wrong amount of 
money. The CCTV didnt show more than Miss J being handled a bundle and not how many 
envelopes were in that.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she thought it 
more likely than not that Miss J was given £7,000. She wasnt able to say that this money 
wasnt accessible to a third party. The withdrawal slip confirmed the amount of £7,000 and 
that this was broken down as 350 £20 notes. There was testimony from the branch about the 
withdrawal and confidence that an offer would have been made to count the money. Miss J 
disputes this but could have asked for it to be counted. The CCTV wasnt available but the 
notes from the branch say that this didnt show the level of detail required to confirm the 
number of bags Miss J was given. The movements between the branch vault and the 
cashiers till were consistent with the cashier having the money to give to Miss J. And the 
cash in the branch balanced.
Miss J didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that there was no 
proof that she had been handed three packages of money and the cashier had originally 
referred to £5,000 being withdrawn. Shed provided photographs of the single cash bag and 
of her safe at home. Miss J says she put the money into her bag and went straight home and 
put this in the safe. She wanted to know why Santander hadnt released the CCTV to 
anyone and we were taking its word that this was inconclusive. She didnt think that what the 
branch had said was reliable. Miss J had provided a recording of a conversation with the 
branch manager during a meeting in which hed said he couldnt say if anyone else had the 
£2,000. She was unhappy at the suggestion by our investigator that a third party was 
involved after shed received £7,000. She also believes that the branch has now changed its 
process and are writing down cash in and out of the till as a further check. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely on 
the balance of probabilities. This service isnt a court, and we provide informal dispute 
resolution and so dont cross examine witnesses on oath. If Miss J doesnt accept my 
decision then she remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
I asked our investigator to contact Santander on my behalf to clarify some points. In 
particular, like Miss J, I wanted to know what had happened to the CCTV and why it hadnt 
been provided to our investigator. It told me that due to technical issues it couldnt be 
obtained. Im afraid that this is as far as Im going to be able to go with this issue. I know 
Miss J wants me to draw adverse inferences about the CCTV and Ill explain how Im going 
to deal with that below. Santander also told me that thered been no other similar 
discrepancies reported at that branch by any other customer and it attached a copy of all the 
cash withdrawals at the till that day.
The withdrawal process
Ive not identified anything in the records provided by Santander to indicate that this 
withdrawal wasnt dealt with in the usual way. The withdrawal slip as has been said recorded 
that £7,000 made up of 350 £20 notes was taken out. An amount of money was taken from 
the vault so that the cashier had sufficient cash to fund this withdrawal at the time. There is a 
dispute about whether Miss J was offered a count of the money which Ill come to. The 
branch records show that the total cash in branch balanced. There is no other evidence of 
any discrepancies. I appreciate Miss J wants it to prove things further, and places weight on 
the branch manager telling her it couldnt. But I dont think thats a realistic expectation given 
what Ill move on to say about the possible other information that could have been but isnt 
available.
The CCTV
I appreciate that Miss J believes that the CCTV is being withheld as it shows something 
relevant. I cant know what it does show and so wont be putting weight on the branch 
manager saying that it only shows a bundle was given to Miss J. Having said there was a 
discussion between Miss J and the manager about the cameras not being that good and in 
any event I do accept that they arent typically designed and placed to audit transactions but 
to show who was present in branch generally. Santander doesnt say that it showed three 
packages being handed over, there is no dispute that no cash was counted and so even if 
available Im unclear what it could helpfully have shown.
Counting the money
I cant fairly resolve whether Miss J was asked if she wanted the money counted. The 
cashier couldnt remember the specific transaction and Santander relies on what it would 
normally have done. Given that Miss J had expressed some concerns about the cashier 
initially only saying that the withdrawal was for £5,000 that might have raised a question then 
for her. And she was able to either look at what shed been given which she later says was 
only an envelope with information on it that it contained 250 £20 notes or ask that it be 
counted herself. By as she says trusting what Santander says she accepted that this was the 
correct amount, and it is now more difficult fairly to go behind that.
The involvement of an unknown third partyMiss J wanted every step of what happened in the branch examined and told the manager 
that everyone was under suspicion. So, its not unreasonable for Santander to want to know 
what happened to the money after Miss J left the branch. And whether a third party could 
have had access to it, say by taking it from her bag or even if it was somehow mislaid. Thats 
not to doubt Miss Js explanation of why she wanted the money and an additional £500 
which shes clarified further. But that her account of what happened similarly relies at critical 
points on what she says without direct evidence to support this.
My assessment
I need to balance all these factors in coming to an overall assessment. Miss Js version of 
events that she was only given £5,000 is clearly possible. All the available information from 
the branch indicates that instead she was given £7,000 which is what shed ordered and 
asked for. The money wasnt counted in front of her, and I have her consistent testimony as 
to what she says happened to the money she was given. I need to decide whether 
Santander made a mistake and gave her the incorrect amount of money. Im afraid I dont 
think that this is the most likely explanation here given the information Santander has 
provided about the transaction and which is consistent with its account. So, I wont be asking 
it to do anything further. I can appreciate that Miss J will be very disappointed by this 
outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman