DRN-3272346
The complaint
Miss L complains that Azimo Ltd (Azimo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam. 
What happened
Miss L opened an Azimo account on 3 July 2020 in order to buy skincare products she found 
on a social media platform. The cost of the products and shipping from Nigeria was £855.05. 
She made the transfer through her Azimo account very shortly after opening the account.
Miss L didnt receive any confirmation of payment and was asked to pay further funds before 
the products could be sent to her. This seemed unusual to Miss L, so she contacted Azimo 
on 6 July 2020 to say she thought she had been scammed. Azimo explained that it would 
start an investigation and try to recall her funds. Azimo explained though that this would only 
be possible if the payee agreed to return the funds. Miss L was also advised to contact the 
police and to continue to communicate with the seller to try to get a refund. The Azimo agent 
said he would contact her later that day with an update on the recall process but didnt, so 
Miss L used the live chat on 15 July 2020. Azimo told her it wasnt able to help as the funds 
had been paid.  
Miss L didnt receive her skincare products and Azimo says it has been unable to secure any 
funds. On 16 July 2020 Azimo made the decision to close Miss Ls account citing its terms 
and conditions in doing so. 
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend it be upheld. She said 
Miss Ls payment request wasnt unusual and so Azimo had no reason to be concerned she 
might be the victim of fraud. In respect of the closure of Miss Ls account, the investigator 
said Azimo acted reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account. But Miss L could open a new account with a different payment service provider and 
give the seller her account details to provide a refund.
Miss L didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, she said:
- When she called Azimo she was told that if the seller was willing to give a refund, 
shed get her funds back as the seller would notify their bank.
- Azimo acted negligently in closing her account when it realised she would fight to get 
her funds back. 
- Azimo took her money so should be able to get it back.
Azimo noted that it had followed up with its partner about the recall request and it hadnt had 
a response from the bank that received Miss Ls funds. Given this, Azimo said it was unable 
to help any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why.
In this case, I need to decide whether Azimo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss L, when she made the payment to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Having thought very carefully about Azimos actions, I dont consider it acted unfairly and
unreasonably in allowing the payment to be made. Im mindful Miss L didnt have an existing 
relationship with Azimo and that this was a one-off payment sent very soon after the account 
was set up. This means that Azimo didnt have an understanding of Miss Ls normal 
spending patterns. 
But in any event, the payment Miss L made via Azimo was for £855.05. I dont think this 
payment was large enough to have caused Azimo any concern. Customers use services like 
Azimo to send large value international transfers either on a one-off or regular basis, often 
because they offer a better rate of exchange than high street banks. Whilst I understand the 
amount Miss L sent through Azimo was a lot to her, I dont consider it to be significant 
enough that Azimo should have had concerns that Miss L may be the victim of fraud. So I 
consider Azimo acted reasonably in making the transfer and not taking any further action.  
The funds Miss L sent went abroad. Such funds can only be recovered if the recipient 
agrees to return them. Azimo has worked with its partner to try to return Miss Ls funds to her 
but hasnt been successful. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything 
more.  
I turn now to the closure of Miss Ls account. Miss L says Azimo closed her account because 
it realised she would do everything she could to get her funds back and wouldnt back 
down. I havent seen any evidence this was the case. Clause 10.4 of Azimos terms and 
conditions says a customer will, 
use the Service to send money only to people that you know personally or to pay for 
goods and services purchased from suppliers of whom you have sufficient knowledge 
and whose identity you verified. 
Miss L used Azimo to send funds to a seller she had no knowledge of and whose identity 
she hadnt verified. In the circumstances, I consider Azimo acted reasonably, and in 
accordance with its terms and conditions, in closing Miss Ls account. Azimo may choose 
who can and cant be a customer. If the seller Miss L bought skincare products from is 
prepared to provide Miss L with a refund, then she should be able to supply details of an 
alternative account for those funds to be paid. But Ive not seen any evidence that the seller 
has agreed to this. 
It is very unfortunate Miss L has lost this money in a cruel scam. I understand the whole 
experience will have been very upsetting for her. But I dont think I can fairly say Azimo 
should have done more to prevent her losing this money or to help to recover it. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to ask Azimo to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman