DRN-3557774
The complaint
Mr E complains about issues in relation to closing his account with  Al Ryan Bank PLC (Al 
Ryan) .  He would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Al Ryan has accepted there was a delay in responding to Mr Es secure message 
giving notice on his account. Whilst I appreciate the frustration, it did then back date 
the request to the date of the secure message which I think was appropriate.
I  appreciate Mr E didnt get his funds on the appointed date , he got them the next 
day. Al Ryans terms state that it may delay payment for procedural checks. From 
what I have seen the payment was made 24 hours late as  Al Ryan attempted to call 
Mr E on the date funds were due to be released . Unfortunately, when Mr E returned 
the call it was  past Al Ryans cut off time to send or make payments . The delay is 
unfortunate, but Al Ryans process with large transactions  is to contact customers to 
confirm payee details prior to issuing funds. As this is a security measure I dont think 
this was unreasonable and I am not aware Mr E suffered any loss as a result. 
In terms of Al Ryan not closing Mr Es account it seems from the records of phone 
calls Mr E asked to withdraw money not close his account. There are different 
processes for withdrawal and closure. However, Al Ryan accepts that, in his secure 
message, Mr E stated he wanted to close his account so it should have explained the 
process to do so.
In terms of Al Ryan not transferring the  full balance of the account we have checked 
this with Al Ryan. As I understand it an account needs to be closed to receive the 
funds and any accrued profit. This  has to be done by a written request not by the 
secure message. The delay in transferring the accrued interest was due to Mr E 
sending a secure message. Al Ryan then needed approval to make an exception to 
transfer the full balance without the usual written request. The delay was unfortunate, 
but Al Ryan did make an exception to its usual process and offered compensation to 
cover distress and inconvenience which I think was appropriate.
In terms of Al Ryan not providing a full response to the aspects of Mr Es complaint 
that it didnt uphold Al Ryan has explained that it discussed its findings in depth in a 
resolution call, so it felt a brief final response letter was appropriate. I dont think that 
was unreasonable. I hope the further detail I have supplied here, to the main points 
Mr E raised,  is helpful.
Finally, I know Mr E was frustrated that he had to wait over an hour to speak to Al 
Ryan by phone. Thats unfortunate but call response times can be influenced by any 
number of factors such as staffing , call volumes and complexity of calls received. Its 
not possible for businesses to always predict such things.
I have noted that Al Ryan apologised to Mr E for any distress and inconvenience 
caused for which it offered  £50 compensation. It also offered , on proof of costs, to 
refund ID certification costs Mr E incurred to close his account. Considering all the 
information have I think this is a reasonable resolution as I do think Al Ryan could 
have been clearer in its communications with Mr E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement Al Ryan Bank PLC should :-
If it has not already done so, pay Mr E the £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience it has already offered
On proof of the costs involved, refund the costs Mr E incurred in providing ID 
certification
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman