DRN-2099612
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs D complain that BoS Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs D took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 1990, at about the same time as 
taking out a mortgage. The sale took place during a meeting. The policy only covered Mr A. 
The initial premiums for this insurance were £14 a month. And, following a successful claim, 
it would have paid out £350 a month for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr A and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. As 
they disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A and Mrs D, but Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr A says that he didnt ask for the MPPI. And that he didnt understand why he was 
asked to take it when he hadnt had it for his two previous mortgages, where his financial 
circumstances had been less secure. He says that he didnt want or need the policy, but 
he was given the application form to take away. And after considering his budget and the 
extra cost, he signed and retuned it. He says this all took place during a complex house 
purchase and administrative process.
Ive seen Mr A and Mrs Ds signed mortgage application form. This has a section in it 
which was to be ticked if they wanted MPPI. I can see that this was left blank. Ive also 
seen Mr As application form for the MPPI which he signed over three months later. I 
dont know what happened in the intervening period to make Mr A and Mrs D change 
their minds. Because it was some 30 years ago, understandably, neither party can 
recollect the detail. Although Mr A has said that there was some pressure to take the 
insurance, he hasnt explained why he felt that, and he hasnt said that BoS told him that 
he had to have the MPPI if he wanted to get the mortgage. From this I dont think that I 
can reasonably conclude that BoS didnt make it clear that taking the MPPI was optional 
or that it put undue pressure on Mr A to take it.
I find that this conclusion may be reinforced by the fact that Mr A asked BoS to 
approximately halve the monthly benefit, and hence also the premiums, just two months 
after the mortgage started. From this I conclude that it was likely Mr A and Mrs D, at the 
very least, knew that they didnt have to take out MPPI for any particular amount as a 
condition of getting the mortgage. Further, the MPPI application form was signed several 
weeks after the mortgage application and shortly before the mortgage was completed. 
Although not conclusive, on balance I find that it was therefore likely that Mr A and Mrs D 
knew they had a mortgage offer for some time before they applied for the policy. And 
thus that the loan wasnt dependent on taking the insurance.
BoS recommended to Mr A and Mrs D that Mr A took out the policy. This means that it 
had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for Mr A. BoS also had to give 
Mr A and Mrs D clear, fair and not-misleading information so that they could make an 
informed decision whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of Mr As 
circumstances at the time. 
I havent seen the actual policy that applied at the time the MPPI was sold. But Ive 
looked at the policy we have that was in use at the date nearest to the sale. Ive no 
reason to think that the terms and conditions that applied to Mr A varied substantially 
from these. And from this I find that the policy was likely to have been suitable for him 
and Mrs D. I say this because knowing what I do about their circumstances at the time:
Mr A was likely to have been eligible for the policy;
Mr A wasnt likely to have been caught by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations - such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr A says that he was grossly overcharged for the insurance. But Im satisfied that 
the policy was reasonably priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered reasonable benefits. And I havent seen anything to
make me think that Mr A and Mrs D couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, 
because it was paid for monthly, had they later thought that they couldnt afford the 
MPPI, or no longer wanted it, they could have cancelled it at any time without further 
cost;
Mr A was entitled to sick pay from his employment, and he and Mrs D had some 
savings. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would likely have paid out in 
addition to these other means, leaving those available to help meet other expenses 
while Mr A was unable to work. So I find that the policy could have been of use to 
Mr A and Mrs D. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that 
could have arisen had Mr A and Mrs D been unable to make their mortgage 
repayments which were secured on their home;
Mr As income was more than twice that of Mrs Ds, so Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for the MPPI only to cover him.
Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr A and Mrs D everything that it ought to have about 
the policy during the sales meeting. But as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for 
him, I think that they would still have taken it had BoS given them clearer information.
This means that Mr A and Mrs D havent lost out because of anything that may have been 
wrong with BoS sales process. So theres nothing I require BoS to put right.
Although Mr A has made several other points, all of which Ive taken into account, I consider 
that in writing this Ive covered all those that have a material impact on my decision as to 
whether BoS mis-sold the MPPI to Mr A and Mrs D.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman