DRN-1694355
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold mobile phone insurance by Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.  
What happened
Mr D visited a mobile phone store to upgrade an existing handset in 2016. Mr D said at no 
point during the store visit did he agree to take out an insurance policy for the newly 
upgraded handset. 
In 2019, Mr D decided to cancel the contract. Mr D said he was made aware during the 
cancellation process that hed been paying an additional monthly premium for mobile phone 
insurance. 
Mr D contacted Assurant to make a complaint. He said that he didn't agree to take out the 
insurance policy with it and had no documents to confirm he ever did. So Mr D asked for a 
full refund of the premiums hed paid. 
Assurant looked into what Mr D had said but didnt agree to refund all the premiums. It did 
refund a small portion of the amount Mr D was owed following the cancellation. 
Assurant said Mr D wouldve been given a copy of the policy terms whilst in store and 
received monthly phone bills which included the additional premium costs. It said that Mr D 
wouldve been aware of the policy and that he shouldve contacted it to query the payments 
he paid over his agreed monthly contract agreement. 
Mr D remained unhappy about this. He maintained that hed never agreed to take the mobile 
phone insurance policy out and had similar cover through his home insurance. Mr D also 
said the itemised bill didnt make it clear to him that he was paying an insurance premium. 
So he brought a complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything and recommended the complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think Assurant had reasonably demonstrated that it provided Mr D with 
clear information about the policy. He also considered the surrounding circumstances and 
felt that its more likely than not that Mr D wasnt aware of the policy, and wouldnt have 
taken it out in any event given he had similar cover already in place. So he said Assurant 
should refund the premiums Mr D paid since 2016.
Mr D agreed with our investigator, but Assurant didnt. It maintained that Mr D was or ought 
to have been reasonably aware of the policy as the premium showed on his monthly bills. It 
also said Mr D was aware of how much his monthly contract agreement was, and so any 
additional costs shouldve been checked by Mr D and queried if he was unsure.  
As no resolution could be met, the case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm in agreement with 
the view our investigator reached, for broadly similar reasons. I'll now explain why. 
As the policy was sold in store, there is no information around the sale and whether Mr D did 
or didnt agree to taking out the policy. Whilst Assurant has said Mr D wouldve been handed 
a copy of the terms and conditions in store, it hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
this, or provide us with any documentation that was signed by Mr D confirming he took the 
policy out.  
Due to the limited amount of information available to me from the sale, I must therefore base 
my decision on what I think on balance is most likely to have happened based on all the 
information available to me. 
Ive seen the itemised bills sent to Mr D showing how much he owed each month. My 
understanding from Mr D is that he was paying for more than one phone contract at this 
time. 
Its not disputed by Assurant that the information on the itemised bill about the premium was 
made clearer in December 2018. The details about the premium changed from Covered 1 
AD-AS to covered Tier 1; Accidental Damage. I dont think it wouldve been clear to Mr D 
prior to December 2018 what this additional charge was for. And based on Mr Ds argument 
that he had no knowledge of the insurance, Im not in agreement with Assurant that this 
reasonably ought to have brought to Mr Ds attention a policy was in place. I also note the 
location of this information on the documents differed to the main charges payable by Mr D 
for his mobile phone contract. 
Mr D told us he didnt need the policy because he already had similar cover in place. Within 
his home insurance policy documents, both Mr D and his household were covered for similar 
perils to those set out within the mobile phone insurance policy he was paying for. Given 
similar cover was included within a policy hed held prior to 2016, on balance Im not 
persuaded that Mr D wouldve also taken this policy out, at an additional expense, to cover 
him for similar perils he was already paying a premium for. 
Therefore, for the reasons set out above, Im not in agreement with Assurant that its 
demonstrated Mr D ought to have reasonably been aware he was paying for the mobile 
phone insurance policy. Im more persuaded on balance the circumstances determine its 
more likely than not that Mr D wasnt aware that the policy was in place, and in any event 
had similar cover already in place.
Putting things right
Based on all the information available to me, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. On 
balance, I don't think Mr D was reasonably aware the policy was in place, or that 
Assurant has demonstrated it took reasonable steps to provide clear information. And in any 
event, Mr D has shown he had similar cover in place during the policy period, and prior to 
the start date of the policy with Assurant.
Based on the reasons set out above, I think Assurant should refund the premiums Mr D paid 
from the start date in 2016, to when he cancelled the policy in 2019. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to refund the full amount Mr D paid in premiums for the 
mobile phone insurance policy from 2016, to when it was cancelled in 2019. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman