DRN-1654747
 
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy how Financial Claims Made Simple, trading as Reclaim PPI, dealt with his 
claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr L instructed Reclaim PPI to make a claims for potentially mis-sold PPI against Lender A 
and Lender B. A claim against Lender B, for account number 1001/8716, was successful in 
September 2019. Reclaim PPI invoiced Mr L for their success fee, and its my understanding 
that this fee remans unpaid.
In August 2019, a claim against Lender A was successful, because Mr L hadnt been told 
about the amount of commission that was being paid to the person whod sold him the PPI 
policy. This is whats known as a Plevin claim. Reclaim PPI invoiced for their success fee, 
and Mr L paid this.
But, in December 2019, Lender A said that PPI had been mis-sold to Mr L. So they paid him 
an additional £2,903.25 gross compensation. Reclaim PPI invoiced Mr L for their success 
fee on this claim. Its my understanding that this fee also remains unpaid.
Mr L has complained that Reclaim PPI are charging him success fees theyre not entitled to. 
He doesnt think they should charge him these fees, because they closed his claims before 
they were successful. 
Mr L is also unhappy the information on Reclaim PPIs claims tracker kept changing. Hes 
concerned how Reclaim PPI were handling his personal data. He made a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) to get a copy of the personal information Reclaim PPI held about 
him.
Our investigator said Reclaim PPI made the claims to Lenders A and B, as instructed, so 
they were entitled to charge their success fees. But he also said the authority Mr L gave 
Reclaim PPI didnt extend to Lender Bs account 2000/7124, so they werent able to charge 
a success fee against this specific claim. 
Reclaim PPI said their claims tracker was a live feed of what was happening with Mr Ls 
claims and was updated every time something changed. They also said that all of the 
changes were detailed in the response to the DSAR theyd sent Mr L. The investigator said 
that, because Mr Ls concerns about the changes to the claims tracker related to how his 
personal data was being dealt with, this was a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office. So he said this wasnt something the Claims Management Ombudsman could look at.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He says that Reclaim PPI made mistakes, gave him 
wrong information and blamed him for complaining twice. He found this very frustrating and 
very stressful. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen that Mr L signed a Letter of Authority on 8 July 2019. This authorised Reclaim PPI 
to deal with a claim against Lender B for account 1001/8716 only. On 18 September, this 
claim was successful. Mr L was awarded £2,021.64 gross compensation. Reclaim PPI 
charged him a success fee of £242.59 in line with the terms Mr L agreed to.
When Reclaim PPI made this claim, Lender B were obliged to look into all potential PPI 
claims for Mr L. So, Lender B also considered a claim against account 2000/7124. Because 
Reclaim PPI werent instructed to deal with this claim, they already confirmed theyre not 
charging a success fee for this claim.
There were some errors made while this claim was ongoing, but I havent seen anything to 
show me that Reclaim PPI closed down the claim before itd been successful. Lender B had 
told Reclaim PPI that Mr L had already complained to them, which wasnt actually the case. 
Reclaim PPI acted in good faith and discussed this with Mr L. I accept that this caused Mr L 
some frustration and confusion. But as Reclaim PPI were only acting on the information 
Lender B had told them, I cant say they did anything wrong in doing so.
Reclaim PPI started a duplicate claim with Barclays in error. This also caused Mr L some 
frustration and confusion. Reclaim PPI have acknowledged their error, and Ive seen they 
apologised to Mr L for this. I think this was reasonable, and I dont think they should do 
anything more.
Mr L was also contacted by Lender B about his claims, and he answered their questions 
which allowed the claim to proceed. Reclaim PPI were acting as Mr Ls representative in his 
claim. Because of this he shouldnt have been contacted by Lender B  where its clear that 
a representative is acting, they should have dealt with the representative.
When contacted by Lender B, Mr L had the choice to deal with them, or ask them to contact 
Reclaim PPI. He chose to deal with them knowing that Reclaim PPI were charging for their 
services. Mr Ls choice doesnt alter this fact, so I cant hold Reclaim PPI responsible for the 
time and effort Mr L spent dealing with Lender B. And I dont think Reclaim PPIs fee should 
be reduced or waived as a result. 
Mr L also authorised Reclaim PPI to make a claim against Lender A. This claim was 
successful on 28 August 2019. Lender A said they were unable to review your PPI mis-
selling complaint in relation to account details] as we received it outside the time limit for the 
submission of complaints.  But they said the claim was successful under Plevin and Mr L 
received £2,018.66 gross compensation. Reclaim PPI invoiced him for their £242.24 
success fee, which he paid on 30 September.
Because of what Lender A had said, in October Reclaim PPI confirmed to Mr L that his claim 
was now closed. But, on 10 December, Lender A said theyd changed their original decision 
(that the claim was submitted out of time), and they paid Mr L an additional £2,903.25 gross 
compensation. Reclaim PPI invoiced for their success fee on this part of the claim.
Its clear that Lender A made a mistake in initially saying the claim had been submitted out of 
time, especially as the deadline for making new claims wasnt until the day after Lender As 
letter. If Lender A hadnt made a mistake, Mr A wouldve received all his compensation in one go 
and Reclaim PPI wouldve sent him a single invoice. And the fact that Reclaim PPI told Mr L 
his claim had been closed (because hed received the full payment he was entitled to) 
doesnt alter this. Reclaim PPI only acted on what Lender A had told them. Im satisfied that 
Mr L only received the second payment because Lender A had made an error, and because 
Reclaim PPI had made the claim for him in the first place. 
So I agree that Reclaim PPI are entitled to charge a fee on the second payment  just as 
they would if Lender A hadnt made a mistake and Mr L had received a single, larger 
payment in August/September 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Financial Claims 
Made Simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman