DRN-1201566
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc didnt automatically transfer all the funds in his current 
account to his new bank after he used the Current Account Switch Service.
Background
Mr S had a current account with TSB. He used the Current Account Switch Service to switch 
his account to a new bank. Mr S says that on the switch date not all of the funds in his TSB 
account had been transferred to this new account. 
He visited a TSB branch on the day after the switch date to make enquiries about this. He 
says that TSB told him that it had retained some money in the account to cover pending card 
transactions but since those had cleared it agreed to transfer the residual balance to his new 
account. 
A few days later Mr S went back to the branch again. He was told that there had been further 
credits to his account. He asked TSB to transfer these credit funds to his new account. He 
says that he spent two hours in the branch and he was told by the branch staff that if he 
hadnt called at the branch nothing would have been done to transfer these funds across to 
his new bank. He also says that as a result of TSBs actions he hasnt been able to qualify 
for incentives with his new bank and he also incurred a late penalty fee on a missed 
payment from his new account. He complained to TSB.
TSB investigated his complaint. It said that it had met its requirements under the Current 
Account Switch Service. It had transferred all of the Standing Orders and Direct Debits over 
to the new bank within the timescales. It had retained a balance in the account to cover 
pending debits from Mr Ss debit card. It said that there had also been two card transactions 
credited to his account after the switch date. TSB said that it would have transferred the 
balance to his new account as part of its usual procedures but that it had done this manually 
because Mr S had visited the branch before this was done. In the circumstances it did not 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was not satisfied with the response from TSB. He said that the staff in the branch had 
told him that if he hadnt intervened the transfer wouldnt have taken place. So, he 
complained to our service. Our investigator looked into the matter. He said that TSB had 
completed the switch on time since all of the Standing Orders and Direct Debits had been 
transferred. Whilst there was a small balance left after the switch date, that was only to cover 
pending transactions and he was satisfied TSB would have transferred the balance to the 
new account. So, he didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator, I wont be upholding this complaint.
I can see that TSB did make the necessary arrangements for the Standing Orders and Direct 
Debits on the account to be transferred to the new bank. On the switch date I can also see 
that TSB transferred the balance in the account to the new bank. It retained some funds in 
the account. TSB says it retained these funds because there were pending debit card 
transactions. When a payment is made using a debit card it can take a number of days 
before the payment is actually taken out of the account. In the meantime funds have to be 
reserved so that the payment can be made. Having looked at the funds that were retained 
and the card transactions that were subsequently debited from the account, Im satisfied that 
TSB didnt retain more money than it needed to in order to cover these payments. 
I can also see that Mr S transferred money, from his other TSB accounts, into the current 
account on the day of the switch. Because the switch had already taken place these funds 
were also included in the remaining balance. On the day after the switch TSB transferred 
further funds to the new bank and only retained what it needed for the outstanding debit card 
transactions. So, Im satisfied that it didnt do anything wrong and that it acted quickly to 
transfer the funds that it didnt need to the new account.
Shortly after this happened TSB received two further credits into the account. These credits 
were debit card refunds. Since the account with TSB was still open the credits were able to 
be made to it. If the account had been closed the credits wouldve been redirected to the 
new account. But, for the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that TSB didnt do anything 
wrong when it left the account open after the switch date.
Mr S says he was told, in the branch, that if he hadnt visited the branch TSB wouldnt have 
transferred these credits to his new account. He says that he spent two hours there and the 
member of staff had to contact the specialists in the switch team to transfer the funds across 
manually. So, I can see why Mr S was dissatisfied. But, Ive also considered what TSB has 
said about its internal reporting systems. It says that Mr Ss account wouldve been closed 
when it was listed on its report for manual closure. This report lists accounts if there is a 
credit balance after any pending transactions are debited. I can see that the account was 
closed manually after Mr S intervened. 
But, despite what Mr S may have been told by the member of staff in the branch, having 
considered everything, on balance, Im satisfied that the remaining funds in the account 
wouldve been transferred to the new account even if he hadnt intervened. Whilst I can see 
that this may have taken longer than Mr S wanted, I dont think that its unfair or 
unreasonable for TSB to wait until all the pending debits have been cleared before it closes 
the account and transfers the balance to the new bank. I can also see that TSB did transfer 
the funds manually when Mr S asked it to.
Since all the credit funds in the account have now been transferred to the new bank and the 
account has been closed, I dont require TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
  
Irene Martin
Ombudsman