DRN-3681946
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) wont honour the balances 
showing in old passbooks that he found.
What happened
Mr M found two old NS&I passbooks that showed balances of £50 and £20 respectively.    
Mr M asked NS&I to pay him the balances in the passbooks, but NS&I informed him that the 
accounts had already been repaid in 1994. Mr M didnt feel that it would be possible for the 
accounts be repaid without this being recorded in the passbooks, so he raised a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed that the accounts had been cashed out in 
1994, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. However, NS&I 
acknowledged that the service Mr M had received when chasing this matter with them hadnt 
been to the standard that they aspire to, and NS&I apologised for this and offered to pay £50 
compensation to Mr M for any inconvenience or upset incurred.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted NS&Is position that the 
accounts had previously been repaid, but they felt NS&I should increase their compensation 
to Mr M for the standard of service hed received from £50 to £100. Mr M continued to be 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must be noted that considerable passing of time since 1994, when NS&I say the accounts 
were cashed out, means that full and detailed information about these account unfortunately 
hasnt survived  and neither would it be expected to have survived. NS&I have confirmed it 
appears some information relating to these accounts has been purged from their systems, 
which is inline with their data retention policy. This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and it 
wouldnt be expected that NS&I would retain full records from such a long time ago. 
Having considered the information that is available, Im satisfied that its more likely than not, 
on balance, that the two accounts were cashed out in 1994 as NS&I have explained. My 
reasons for saying this include that NS&I have been able to locate records for one of the 
accounts which confirm that it was repaid in 1994. And while NS&I havent been able to 
locate a similar record for the other account, they also havent been able to locate any 
records confirming a balance remaining in that other account, which I feel should have been 
the case had such a balance remained.
Im aware that Mr M feels that the accounts couldnt be repaid without it being recorded in 
the passbooks. But there are several reasons why this may not have been the case, 
including that the passbooks may have been misplaced or not been available when the 
accounts were cashed out in 1994.
However, while I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint as it relates to the balances he 
believes are present in the accounts, I do feel that Mr M should be compensated for the 
standard of service he received from NS&I when enquiring about these balances.
Notably, when Mr M spoke with NS&I about the accounts, he was first sent a letter 
requesting further information, which Mr M duly provided. Following this, NS&I determined 
that there was no record of balances remaining in these accounts. But Mr M was then sent a 
residual payment form, which understandably gave Mr M the impression that there was a 
balance remaining in at least one of the accounts.
NS&I later confirmed to Mr M that there was no balance remaining in the accounts. But its 
difficult not to conclude that this should have been explained definitively to Mr M in the first 
instance, which would potentially have resolved this matter sooner without giving Mr M a 
false expectation that he would receive some money from the accounts.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered reasonable by one 
person not being considered as being such by someone else. But in this instance, having 
considered the impact on Mr M of what happened here, as described above, I feel that 
compensation of £100 would provide a fair resolution to this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision will therefore be that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour on the 
limited basis explained above and instructing NS&I to make a payment of £100 to Mr M as 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes incurred as a result of the service hes received 
from NS&I. I realise this might not be the full outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I trust hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
NS&I must make a payment of £100 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and Investments on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman