DRN-3960525
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr C fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. After first investing money from his 
current account at a different financial institution, he was persuaded to open a Revolut 
account and invest a further £5,000. That payment was made by card to a genuine 
cryptocurrency provider. 
When he discovered that the recipient of that payment wasnt the business he was expecting 
to pay (and one that he hadnt heard of before) he reported the matter to Revolut through its 
in-app chat service. A discussion took place about whether the transaction could be disputed 
through the chargeback scheme, but Mr C seems to have had technical difficulties using the 
app and a chargeback claim was never raised. 
He contacted Revolut through the chat service on several other occasions, sometimes 
reporting limitations on his account and asking it to allow him to make further transactions. 
Mr C did make other cryptocurrency related payments from his Revolut account, but he 
hasnt disputed these. I asked Mr Cs representatives about these payments and, while they 
confirmed that they also relate to the fraud, Im not particularly clear how or why they werent 
disputed along with the £5,000 payment. But, as they were not, I wont be able to comment 
on the other payments further and Mr C will need to raise this as a separate matter, if he 
wishes to do so.
In August 2022, Mr Cs representatives wrote to Revolut to complain. They said that Revolut 
ought to have considered the transaction which debited Mr Cs account to be suspicious due 
to the fact the account was new and the recipient was involved in cryptocurrency. So, it 
should have contacted him before allowing the payment to proceed. Had it done so, they 
argued, Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment and wouldnt have lost money to 
the fraud.
Revolut said that it hadnt been provided with enough information about what happened to 
assess the complaint. Later, it said it wasnt at fault as it had processed the payment in line 
with its obligations, Mr C hadnt carried out sufficient checks and shouldnt have given over 
his details to a third party.
Mr C referred the matter to our service but one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They were satisfied that Mr C had authorised the payment in dispute and didnt 
think that Revolut ought to have been unduly concerned about the risk of fraud.
Mr C didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017), is that Mr C is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. Though Mr C 
says he didnt recognise the recipient of the payment here, he seems to accept authorising 
the fraudsters to make a payment of £5,000 on his behalf. So, for the purposes of the PSR 
2017, I must consider the transaction to be authorised, even if Mr C wasnt aware of where 
the payment was going. 
As set out, there appears to have been some discussion around whether a chargeback 
could be raised for this particular transaction. But, regardless of why that chargeback wasnt 
raised, I cant see that it would have had any chance of success. The recipient was a 
genuine cryptocurrency provider and would only need to show that it provided a service (that 
of providing fiat or cryptocurrency) in order to successfully defend the chargeback. That 
seems very likely to be the case, so even if Revolut had all the information it required in 
order to raise a chargeback, I dont think it would have made a mistake by not doing so.  
So, Im left to consider whether, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, 
Revolut should have identified the transaction as particularly suspicious, such that some 
form of intervention ought to have taken place before the transaction was allowed to debit Mr 
Cs account.
Where a firm like Revolut does have grounds to be concerned about a payment, I think it 
should reasonably take steps to warn its customer about the risk of proceeding. Whether a 
warning should be provided (and, if it should, the nature and extent of that warning) should 
be proportionate to the risk the payment presents and strike a balance between trying to 
protect customers and not unduly inconveniencing them. I must also take into account that 
applying significant friction to all payments would be very onerous and impractical for 
Revolut.
Revolut did not have a previous customer relationship with Mr C. It did not know his typical 
spending patterns. But that doesnt mean it wasnt in a position to recognise suspicious 
activity  only that the information it had on which to make that assessment was limited.
Ive thought about what Revolut did know about Mr C when he came to make the first 
payment. That information was fairly limited. It knew his personal details, that he stated the 
reason for opening the account was to gain exposure to financial assets, that his account 
was new and that he was paying a cryptocurrency provider. 
Mr Cs representatives argue that the activity Mr C carried out was, in and of itself, typical of 
fraud: the opening of a new account, the deposit of funds and a payment to a cryptocurrency 
provider.  But I dont find it surprising that a customer would open a Revolut account and use 
it immediately for a specific purpose. And, given that customers of Revolut can purchase and 
trade cryptocurrency through its application, its likely that many customers will open Revolut 
accounts in order to purchase cryptocurrency. So, I dont find that this pattern of activity is 
necessarily indicative of fraud. And when considering whether a payment should trigger an 
intervention, at the time this payment was made, I think it was fair for Revolut to take into 
account a range of factors, not just that the payments were going to a cryptocurrency 
provider.
I cant see any reason for Revolut to be particularly concerned about Mr Cs account prior to 
this payment being attempted, particularly given that the account opening reason and nature 
of the payment appear consistent. Ive also thought about Mr Cs age. While I accept that it 
put him into a group which is considered to be more likely to be vulnerable, I consider this to be just one of a number of factors that Revolut should fairly take into account when deciding 
whether a payment presents heightened risk.
Taking all of the above into account, I think Revolut should have given a general warning 
here  one that attempts to address various fraud risks at a fairly high level. But, even if it 
had done, I cant reasonably conclude that this is likely to have prevented the loss Mr C 
suffered  given the relatively sophisticated nature of the scam and the difficulty of providing 
a general warning that would be sufficiently tailored to Mr Cs circumstances. And though 
such a warning might have drawn his attention to the identity of the payee, in the context of 
an investment scam where Mr C always intended to invest the amount of the payment, it 
seems likely the fraudsters would have been able to persuade Mr C that the payment was 
necessary and legitimate. 
 
Overall, I cant see that there was sufficiently concerning information about this payment that 
Revolut ought to have provided a more specific warning or have a human interaction with Mr 
C. So, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, I dont find that Revolut are 
responsible for his loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman