DRN-1580934
 
The complaint
Miss L says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Miss L says the lending was unaffordable for her.                            
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Miss L between 
December 2013 and March 2015. There were two chains of lending. Miss Ls borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 17/12/2013 14/02/2014 2 £250.00 £250.00 1
2 16/04/2014 24/05/2014 2 £400.00 £400.00 1
   Break    
3 12/12/2014 15/01/2015 1 £130.00 £160.44 0
4 15/01/2015 17/02/2015 6 £1,000.00 £438.66 0
5 09/03/2015 17/09/2015 6 £1,000.00 £478.66 0
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ls complaint and thought loans four and five shouldnt 
have been given as they looked to be unaffordable for Miss L. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. It said the lending was affordable for Miss L and 
asked for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss L didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss L had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I should first say that I agree that there are two chains of lending. There was a break of 
around seven months between loans two and three. And I think this was a sufficient amount 
of time for Mr Lender to have reasonably concluded that Miss L had overcome whatever her 
financial difficulty was that had caused her to take this type of short-term credit in the first 
instance. So, Ill be treating this complaint as two chains of lending, loans one and two and 
then loans three to five. Our adjudicator concluded that the repayments for loans four and five accounted for a 
significant proportion of Miss Ls income and there was the risk that Miss L wouldnt be able 
to sustainably keep up with the repayments. Mr Lender disagreed. 
When Miss L applied for loan four, she paid off her previous loan on the same day which 
could have been an indication that she was potentially having problems managing her 
finances. And I note loan four was for the much larger sum than her earlier borrowing at 
£1,000 and for a longer term. 
Miss Ls monthly income was recorded as being £1,300 and her monthly outgoings as £364 
leaving her with a monthly disposable income of £936. On a pounds and pence basis this 
loan would seem affordable. But for loan four the monthly instalments had now increased to 
six months, so she would have a much longer-term commitment than her previous loans. 
The monthly loan repayment of £438.66 accounted for just over a third of Miss Ls monthly 
income and almost half of her disposable income. I agree with the adjudicator that this was 
such a significant proportion of Miss Ls income that it was unlikely that this would be 
affordable for Miss L and was potentially unsustainable. 
And I note Miss L repaid loan four one month after taking it but only to return for loan five 
around three weeks later, and for the same amount and term. Taking into account the nature 
of this type of lending I would question why someone would repay a loan much earlier than 
the agreed term only to return shortly afterwards for additional lending. This may be a further 
indication that Miss L was having problems managing her finances suggesting the borrowing 
repayments were unsustainable for her. In conclusion, I dont think the lending should have 
been given.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four and five and Mr 
Lender should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans four and five;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Miss Ls credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ls complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman