DRN-3238793
The complaint
Miss S believes Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase agreement shed applied 
for.
What happened
On 31 August 2019, Miss S took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. Miss S paid an 
advance payment of £378.66, and the agreement was for £37,470.34 over 48 months, with 
47 monthly repayments of £599.82, and a final payment of £16,055. The agreement was 
used to finance the purchase of a new car. Miss S voluntarily terminated the agreement in 
January 2020.
Miss S has complained VWFS didnt act responsibly when approving the agreement. She 
said she was pressurised into taking the agreement by her then partner, whod been 
declined the finance as he already had an agreement with VWFS at the time. Miss S has 
also said that, at the time of the application, her income was only £660 a month, from which 
she had to pay towards the mortgage and household bills, and care for her daughter.
VWFS thought theyd acted reasonably, but Miss S wasnt happy with this response. So, she 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
VWFS provided details of the checks they carried out when approving the application. But 
our investigator said that VWFS hadnt carried out any income or affordability checks. And 
he said that, had they done so, then they wouldve seen that Miss S couldnt afford the 
agreement. So, he didnt think VWFS had acted reasonably. And, because of this, he didnt 
consider whether Miss S had been coerced into taking out the agreement.
The investigator said that, because Miss S had use of the car before the agreement was 
terminated, then the payments shed made didnt need to be refunded. But, because the 
agreement shouldnt have been approved, the investigator said that VWFS should write off 
any outstanding balance and remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file.
VWFS didnt agree with the investigator. They said that Miss S was well aware of her own 
finances and was best placed to know whether it was affordable for her or not. They said we 
would have trusted in our customer and her answers when applying for finance, so they 
dont consider theyre responsible for any false statements Miss S may have made.
VWFS also said that Miss S had a long-standing good payment history with them, and her 
credit file didnt give them any cause for concern. So, they thought that Miss S posed 
little/no risk, that they didnt force her into taking out the agreement, and that Miss S should 
be accountable for her own actions.
After reviewing the bank statements Miss S provided as part of the evidence for this 
investigation, VWFS also said that Miss S had an average monthly income of £1,407.61 and 
total committed outgoings of £564.50. VWFS felt that Miss Ss insurances, gym membership, 
TV subscription and mobile phone were flexible non-committed spending, so shouldnt be 
taken into consideration. Which they said meant that Miss S had sufficient disposable 
income to support their payment.
Because VWFS didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did VWFS make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that VWFS didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Ss 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
VWFS have provided screenshots of the information they used to make their lending 
decision. This showed that Miss S had been employed for almost 2 years and that shed 
been at her current address for just over 3 years. But theres no income recorded for Miss S 
and Ive also noted that the contact email address VWRS were provided with was for a third 
party, and not Miss S.
VWFS have also provided a screenshot of the credit file they checked. This shows that Miss 
S was paying them £281 a month for another finance agreement; that she had another 
regular payment of £28 a month (with £999 outstanding); and that she owed £89 on a 
revolving credit agreement such as a credit card. This also shows that the latest payment on 
Miss Ss mortgage had been missed.
Im aware that VWRS have said that they should be entitled to rely on the information Miss S 
gave them. But theres nothing to show me that she ever declared an income. And I dont 
think its reasonable to say that, just because Miss S had been able to pay them £281.42 a 
month for a previous finance agreement, this shows that she can afford a payment of 
£599.82 a month  more than double what she was previously paying.
Taking this all into consideration, I dont think it was reasonable for VWFS to approve the 
finance application without doing further checks on Miss Ss income and affordability.Would any additional checks VWFS couldve done have shown that Miss S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Miss S has provided bank statements for two accounts for the period 1 May 2019 to 30 
September 2019 (account 1) and 27 June to 26 September 2019 (account 2). If VWFS had 
asked for more information about Miss Ss income and expenditure, then the bank 
statements for these periods give a good indication of what VWFS would likely have 
discovered.
The bank statements show that, for the May to July 2019, Miss S had an average monthly 
income of £1,309.29  and not the £1,407.61 VWFS subsequently calculated it to be. 
Miss S was paying £426.62 for her mortgage (although she said her partner gave her half of 
this), £143 a month for council tax, £184.17 for car insurance, and £20.12 a month for car 
tax. Im aware that VWFS would like to class a lot of Miss Ss outgoings as discretionary 
spending, and so this can be discounted. But, as they are providing the finance for a car, its 
reasonable for the statutory costs of running a car (tax and insurance) are included as part of 
Miss Ss outgoings. So, allowing for Miss S only paying 50% of the mortgage payment, the 
above totals £560.60 a month.
In addition, Miss S was paying £83.34 a month to a finance company; £70.08 for pet 
insurance; around £42 a month for a mobile phone; and £92 a month gym membership. 
Whilst I agree with VWFS that the gym membership can be classed as discretionary 
spending, I dont agree that the mobile phone can be  its reasonable to expect Miss S to 
have some form of communication device, and if this wasnt a mobile phone it would be a 
landline phone. Which can cost a similar amount each month.
So, allowing for just the finance and mobile phone payments, this increases Miss Ss 
outgoings to £685.94 a month. Which would give her £623.35 disposable income a month. 
VWFSs payment was £599.82 a month, which would leave Miss S with £23.53 a month to 
pay for food, clothing, fuel, and utilities (gas, electric, water). And, even if these bills were 
shared with her partner, this is obviously insufficient.
So, given this Im satisfied that, if VWFS had carried out reasonable checks, this wouldve 
shown that Miss S couldnt afford the finance. So, it shouldnt have been approved.
Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think VWFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Miss S 
back in the position she wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. But Ive also taken into 
consideration that Miss S had the benefit of the car while it was in her possession, so she 
should pay for this.
As the agreement has been terminated, and the car returned in January 2020, then VWFS 
should write-off the outstanding balance owed by Miss S at the point of termination. And if 
shes paid anything towards this, it should be refunded to her, plus simple interest at 8% a 
year from the date of payment to the date of refund .
As the agreement should never have been approved, VWFS should also remove any 
negative information, relating to the agreement from Miss Ss credit file.HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWRS must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ss complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman