DRN-2955118
The complaint
Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited gave him incorrect information 
about breakdown cover he thought was in place. He says this has caused him financial loss.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr Ls car broke down, and he called Admirals breakdown team for help  
as he thought he had breakdown cover as part of an insurance policy he is named on. Mr L 
says that during the call, he was informed of what level of breakdown cover he had, and he 
proceeded with the recovery.
Mr Ls car was recovered from the scene. But he was later charged £230 for the recovery 
because he didnt have any breakdown cover in place. Mr L doesnt think this is fair he says 
he was told he had breakdown cover through Admiral when he contacted them once his car 
broke down. He says had he been given the correct information by Admiral, he would have 
sorted the issue out himself  by either claiming on his home insurance policy or using 
breakdown cover he has with a different provider. 
Mr L is also unhappy that he wasnt told he wasnt speaking to Admiral when he called  and 
he was in fact talking to a different business who handles recoveries on behalf of Admiral. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L, but he didnt uphold his complaint. He listened to 
the call that Mr L had with Admiral about the recovery, but he said that there was no mention 
of what type of breakdown cover there was associated with the policy during the call. And Mr 
L had agreed to continue with the recovery in the knowledge that he might have to pay for 
anything he wasnt covered for. Our investigator also explained why the call was answered 
by a different business, who handle these types of calls on behalf of Admiral.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He says he is certain that he was told during the call 
about the level of cover he had, as this was the purpose of his call  so he thinks the call 
Admiral has sent us has been edited to exclude this information. 
Because Mr L didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mr L seems to now accept the reason why his call was answered by a different business, so 
I wont go into this point in too much detail. I can see that Admirals breakdown cover was 
provided by a different business  and so it is normal for the call to go through to that 
provider, as that business is providing the service on behalf of Admiral. I dont draw anything 
negative from this or find that this is something Admiral have done wrong or been dishonest 
about.
Ultimately Mr Ls complaint stems from the information he says he received during the call  
more specifically, that he was told what level of cover he had, and this is the reason why he 
proceeded with the recovery. 
During the call, Mr L says that it is his partner who is the policyholder for the insurance and 
that he holds his own policy with Admiral too, he then says, So Im hoping were covered 
either way. The call handler explains that he couldnt find Mr Ls details on file, but he could 
still help him with the recovery. After this, the call handler said, if we do provide any service 
that youre not entitled to, Admiral will pass on all charges incurred to provide that service. 
The call handler asked Mr L if he was happy to proceed on that basis and Mr L responded 
Yeah, thats fine.
Ive listened to the call carefully, and I can hear that Mr L wasnt told what level of cover 
there was attached with the policy  and Mr L didnt ask this question either. But he decided 
to proceed on the basis that he would be charged for any service that was carried out that he 
wasnt covered for. 
Mr L didnt have breakdown cover so he was charged for the recovery. And I dont find that 
Admiral did anything wrong in charging him the cost of recovery.
Mr L says that the call Admiral has sent this service has been edited  so it doesnt include 
the conversation he says he had with Admiral about the level of breakdown cover he had. Mr 
L has given us his phone records which he says show the length of the call was longer than 
the recording that was sent to us by Admiral. 
Admiral has told this service that the call only starts recording once the customer has 
listened to the pre-recorded options at the start of the call. This is fairly normal when calling 
a business, and most calls will only start recording once it has passed the initial pre-
recording. So, I find it more likely that this is where the difference in the length of call has 
come from  as opposed to it being edited by Admiral. 
I know Mr L feels strongly about this point. And hes said that he can hear during the call 
where it has been edited. Ive listened to the call myself on a number of occasions. The 
conversation in the call seems to flow normally, and I havent been able to hear anything that 
persuades me it has been edited. So, on balance, Im satisfied it is more likely to be a true 
reflection of the full conversation that took place. It follows that I dont think that Admiral gave 
Mr L misleading information about the breakdown cover during the call. And I dont think 
Admiral needs to do anything more for Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman