DRN-4376060
The complaint
Ms B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has unreasonably 
declined her request to use the points from her credit card for travel in a way that would 
allow her to manage her physical disability.
What happened
Ms B said she had AESEL companion travel vouchers with expiry dates of June and October 
2023 which she hadnt been able to use. In January 2023, she asked AESEL to write to its 
partner airline to request an extension to the vouchers on medical, compassionate and 
disability grounds and provided evidence, but in February 2023 her request was declined. 
Ms B said she received no explanation from the airline about why it wouldnt do this, and to 
avoid this happening to her other voucher she tried to book a trip for August 2023. Ms B said 
she was encouraged by the airline to make a further request for amendments, but she hadnt 
heard the outcome of this before the voucher expired. 
In respect to her October 2023 voucher, Ms B found a flight, but was limited by the airlines 
and AESELs terms to economy class, which for long flights would be harmful to her health. 
Ms B couldnt proceed with the booking and wrote to AESEL challenging the fairness of the 
terms for someone with a disability. Ms B thinks the prohibition on upgrades for vouchers 
doesnt account for disabilities, whereas the use of the term companion voucher by AESEL 
is normally associated with disability-related exemptions. She said shes spent £24,000 on 
her AESEL card to qualify for the vouchers, and she considers the term to be unfair and 
discriminatory in its lack of reasonable adjustments. 
AESEL responded to Ms B to say it wouldnt deviate from its terms and conditions, even on 
the grounds of her disability, and these state that companion vouchers are non-transferable. 
It said in exceptional cases it would extend a voucher, but Ms B had advised that the main 
reason for non-use was due to seat availability, with the further issue of her disability. 
AESEL said it hadnt made any errors and didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ms B said the 
primary reasons for being unable to travel were bereavement; the nature of her disability, 
and need for travel assistance abroad. She acknowledged the unavailability of seats on 
other occasions which had prevented her use of the voucher, but AESEL had ignored this.
Ms B was dissatisfied with AESELs response to her complaint and referred it to our service. 
She considered AESELs position on her voucher to be discriminatory. She said AESEL had 
been deliberately misleading about the reason she couldnt use her voucher and its terms 
didnt prohibit an upgrade when using the companion voucher. She thought that by failing to 
make reasonable adjustments on account of her disability, she was prevented from using the 
voucher and AESEL and the airline are in breach of the Equality Act. She said AESEL hasnt 
offered any alternative benefit, which she would have expected in light of her disability. She 
wants compensation and points towards a new companion voucher.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Ms B asked AESEL if it 
could extend her travel vouchers beyond the expiry date and use towards upgraded seats, 
due to her disability. He said as the vouchers are provided by an airline, its understandable 
AESEL put Ms Bs request to them. The airline said it wasnt able to meet Ms Bs request as 
this went against the terms and conditions of the agreement for their use.
The investigator said AESEL had tried to help Ms B, however, her request wasnt part of the 
airlines agreement so it couldnt be met. This wasnt AESELs fault, and we cant tell a 
business to change its policies or terms and conditions. He said Ms B feels discriminated 
against by AESEL, but he didnt think the evidence showed this, or that it had acted unfairly. 
He said we dont have the power to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 
2010, as this is a matter for the courts to decide.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with the investigators response and requested an ombudsman review 
her complaint. She said he had completely misunderstood her complaint which was brought 
primarily because the terms and conditions of the AESEL companion voucher, dictate that 
passengers can only travel in economy class regardless of whether or not the class is 
suitable for their needs. This goes against air regulations for disabled passengers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about Ms Bs difficult personal circumstances and her bereavement, 
leading to her not being able to use her companion travel vouchers. Ive considered whether 
AESEL has followed the terms and conditions of the agreement in place and looked at 
whether it has treated Ms B fairly.
I can see that Ms B feels that AESEL has discriminated against her in that it wouldnt change 
its policy, as reflected in the terms and conditions of her credit card agreement, on the 
grounds of her disability. The credit card agreement concerning the points Ms B has 
accumulated includes Ms B, AESEL and its selected airline partner. 
Ms B understands that this complaint only concerns AESEL and so we are unable to 
consider the airlines actions, and this includes her calls with the airline. This causes difficulty 
for her complaint because she is essentially looking for agreement to transfer the booking 
specified by the terms, whereas, as would be expected, the availability of seats and terms 
concerning bookings, and transferability are within the say so of the airline. Ms B can bring a 
complaint to the airline about its decision, but this may not be within our jurisdiction to 
consider.  
AESEL put Ms Bs request for a transfer to a higher-class seat to the airline, but it has relied 
on the following terms to decline her request.
5. The Companion Voucher allows the main account holder to book an economy companion 
seat or solo traveller seat. 8. Companion Vouchers may only be used for bookings subject to 
availability and [the airline] offers no guarantee that Cardmembers will be able to book a seat 
for themselves or for a companion on a specific flight 26. Companion Vouchers are non-
extendable and non-transferable.
Ms B cannot understand how with disability awareness anyone would enforce a rule that 
requires people to travel in a way that may be medically unsuitable for them in order to take 
up a travel benefit. 
I dont doubt Ms Bs point that travelling in economy for both long and short haul flights, has 
proven detrimental to her health on account of her medical condition and she has provided 
medical evidence of her condition. She doesnt think AESEL has made any reasonable 
adjustments on account of her disability. Our investigator is correct to say that our service 
doesnt have the power to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010. We do consider if a business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably but a determination 
under the Equality Act is a matter for the courts to decide.
Whilst I can understand why Ms B thinks shes been treated unfairly, the agreement for the 
use of her credit card points is limited by availability, non-transferability and the airlines 
conditions of use. AESEL acted as a conduit in this respect, passing on the airlines decline 
of Ms Bs request. I think it has acted reasonably in relation to the issues she has raised, and 
I dont think it has made an error in its handling of her credit card points. 
Even if I were to conclude that it would be fair for AESEL to extend the life of Ms Bs recently 
expired voucher in the light of her difficult circumstances, I still dont think it should have to 
allow an upgrade on the airline tickets. And so an extension on its own would not be of use 
to Ms B for the reasons she has stated.
Notwithstanding this, AESEL has stated that it is unable to make the amendments to the 
vouchers itself, and this is supported by the terms of the agreement that make this a 
reserved issue for the partner airline. As a gesture of goodwill, I asked AESEL to approach 
the airline to request an extension of Ms Bs voucher. AESEL said it had contacted the 
airline three times to consider the request, but it has not responded. 
Although this doesnt affect the outcome of this final decision, which I am unable to uphold, I 
think it may be worth Ms B contacting the airline herself to see what may be possible with 
regard to her vouchers.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman