DRN-3385307
The complaint
Mr G has complained to this service about esure Insurance Limited (Esure) because he said 
Esure allowed someone else to use his personal details to set up a policy in his name, on 
which it dealt with claims, before cancelling it and demanding Mr G pay over £900 of 
outstanding premiums.
What happened
In November 2020 Esure was contacted by the police. They had stopped a car (registration 
beginning FX) being driven by someone named as a temporary driver on a policy ending 
167 in Mr Gs name. The police had wanted to notify Esure that the driver they had stopped 
had said he had paid Mr G £700 to hire the car for a month. Esure further noted that a 
number of different temporary named drivers had been added to the policy in the course of 
its term. And that two claims had been made and settled, which had been logged, as normal, 
on the industry databases. But it now felt that the policyholder might not be using the policy 
in the way agreed (as it doesnt permit hire) so cancelled the cover, demanding all 
outstanding premiums were paid. Esure sent correspondence to this effect to the contact 
address registered. 
In December 2020, Mr G was looking to renew a policy he had for a car with a registration 
beginning CV. He was told there was a cancelled policy and previous claims in his name 
registered on a policy with Esure at his previous address. He called Esure to enquire but 
couldnt answer the security questions as his email and mobile phone number were different 
to the ones registered on the policy. Mr G said the policy must be fraudulent and he wanted 
the claim and cancellation records logged against him amending. At some point Mr G had 
debt collection agents contact him at his current address, demanding payment of over £900 
in outstanding premiums. Mr G was unhappy about this too as he said he had never 
arranged this cover or had any benefit from it. Regarding the FX car he said he had never 
owned it.
Esure did not believe the policy had been set up by anyone other than Mr G. It felt it had 
acted reasonably in cancelling the policy  and that, along with the previous two settled 
claims, had precipitated the reasonable request for the remaining premium to be paid. Mr G 
complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Esure hadnt done enough to show Mr Gs concerns were 
unfounded. So he thought it should amend the policy and claims record, stop chasing Mr G 
for the remaining premium as well as removing its record from his credit file and pay him 
£300 compensation. 
Esure felt that was unfair, whilst Mr G was satisfied by the outcome. As no agreement could 
be reached, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration.
I was also minded to uphold it. But I wasnt persuaded Esure should pay compensation, and 
I noted it wouldnt be able to amend Mr Gs credit file. So I issued a provisional decision to 
let both parties know what I felt Esure should do. Both Mr G and Esure said they accepted 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
This service acts as an informal dispute resolution provider. So we consider what has 
happened, if anything has gone wrong (which caused the policyholder to complain), and, if 
so, what the respondent business must do to put things right. In the course of considering 
what happened we will sometimes note that a failure by a business has resulted in the 
policyholder suffering distress and inconvenience. And where that is the case we will often 
make the business pay compensation to make up for the upset caused. But we can only do 
that in respect of the activity which occurred prior to the complaint being made. If a business 
fails a complainant whilst considering their complaint, or doesnt provide a suitable response 
to it, we cant award compensation for resultant upset caused. That is because how a 
business handles a complaint is not a regulated activity covered by the jurisdiction of this 
service. But if we think the complaint outcome reached by the business is unfair and 
unreasonable, we can and will make it change it.
Mr G says he did not contact Esure before December 2020  that this wasnt a policy he had 
set up. So, effectively, his first call to Esure was to complain to it that it had incorrectly 
logged claims and a cancellation against his name. Therefore, only if Esure failed Mr G by 
knowingly setting up an incorrect policy, or unfairly logging policy claims, or unreasonably 
cancelling the policy, can I look at awarding compensation to Mr G. Those events caused 
Mr Gs complaint. So Ill look at them in a moment. But I also know that Esures debt 
collection activity upset Mr G as well. Mr G feels the activity could have been avoided, if 
Esure had accepted his concerns about the policy not being in his name. But, unless the 
policy cancellation was unfair, I cant take Mr Gs upset in this respect into account. Thats 
because if Mr G was caused upset because Esure didnt handle his complaint in the way he 
might have liked, that is not, as Ive explained, something I can look at. But if the cancellation 
which generated the need for debt collection activity was unfair or unreasonable, then I can 
take the upset which flowed from that failure into account.  
When an insurer sets up a policy it is entitled to take the information given to it at face value. 
It doesnt have to interrogate that information in order to verify it. From what I have seen 
Esure set up a policy based on details it had been given and, during later calls made to it 
linked to that policy, adequate security checks were completed to make sure it was talking to 
the policyholder. I think, from hearing some calls, and hearing Mr G speak to our 
investigator, it is most likely Esure had not spoken to Mr G at all until he called it in 
December 2020. Rather it seems that someone pretending to be Mr G was calling Esure  
their voice and Mr Gs sound different and each have called from different numbers. But 
I dont think, until Mr G called it in December 2020, complaining that a policy had been set 
up in his name, that Esure had any cause to think it was or had been dealing with anyone 
but Mr G. I havent seen anything that makes me think it knowingly allowed an incorrectly set 
up policy to be put in place, or to persist. I dont think Esure failed Mr G in this respect.
In November 2020 the police passed to Esure what I think is material information key to the 
risk Esure thought it was offering cover for. In short, that the policy in place wasnt being 
used in the way agreed because it was being used for hire. So Esure was providing cover for 
a car being used in a way it hadnt agreed to. I think that gave Esure reasonable cause to 
cancel the policy. I dont think Esure failed Mr G in this respect. As the debt collection 
activity, which I know upset Mr G, stemmed from a reasonable cancellation, I dont think 
Esure failed him in this respect either.The difficulty for Esure, in my view, comes from the outcome it reached to Mr Gs complaint 
 that his policy was not his. I dont think Esure did enough to satisfy and assuage Mr Gs 
reasonable concerns made in this respect. So I think the outcome must change. 
Mr G says he didnt arrange this cover. He said he had never called Esure (before 
December 2020), that he hadnt lived at the policy address since before the policy was 
arranged and that he didnt own the car subject of the policy. Esure has not been able to 
show that Mr G  identifiable by his distinctive voice  had called it from his mobile number 
about the policy in question  or in respect of the car in question. The only calls I have 
heard, with Mr Gs distinct voice, from his mobile number, are in relation to a different policy 
and car. Regarding the policy address, even though Mr G has shown that he began living at 
another property in autumn 2019, Esure has not shown that he remained linked to the policy 
address. Perhaps by having checked the electoral register, for example. In respect of the 
car, Esure has shown a DVLA report which shows Mr G is or was the registered keeper of 
the FX car. Although the date he is logged as becoming the registered keeper is unclear. 
But the registered keeper details dont show that Mr G completed this record, or that he 
owned the car. I think it is perfectly possible for someone  perhaps the person with the 
other mobile number and who called Esure purporting to Mr G  to have set this policy up. 
In short Esure hasnt satisfied me that it is fair for it to retain a claim and cancellation record 
against Mr G, or to chase him for the remaining premium due. So I think it fairly has to 
amend those records on its own or any of its agents or industry databases and reasonably 
must stop chasing Mr G for payment. It should also write a letter for Mr G to use for any 
credit reference companies in case his records have been affected by the debt being logged 
incorrectly against him. But, as I said above, I wont be awarding Mr G compensation 
because Esure only failed him in respect of not providing a fair and reasonable outcome to 
his complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, Ive no need to change anything. 
Therefore, my provisional findings now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Esure to:
Remove and/or amend any record of the policy and claims, so none are attributed to 
Mr G on its own or any industry database.
Cease chasing Mr G for any outstanding premium, making sure that the amount is not 
linked to his name/details on either its own system or any of its agents.
Write a letter for Mr G which he can present to any credit reference agency should he 
need to, to explain any debt related to the policy ending 167 is not his debt.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman