DRN-1297618
The complaint
Mr K complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly valued his car following a 
claim under his car insurance. Mr K was sent two cheques to settle the claim, which he 
cashed and spent, and he says esure has now unfairly asked him to repay one of them.
What happened
Following an accepted claim, esure calculated the value of Mr K's vehicle using three 
separate trade guide prices. It then deducted a value for pre-existing damage bringing its 
valuation to £1,200.
Mr K felt the sum was too low. And following this he then received two cheques in the post 
that he cashed. One from esure, and one from the third party insurer for £1,544.
esure said this was a mistake and that it wanted the money back. Mr K said he spent the 
money, and would be willing to give back the difference between the sum paid, and the 
value he says his car is worth above esure's valuation.
Mr K also asked esure to accept £50 per month until he repaid what he owed. esure initially 
asked for £100 per month, but since said it would accept £75 per month.
Mr K was unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into things and didn't uphold the complaint. He said he'd checked the relevant trade 
guides, and thought that esure had provided a fair market value in line with our approach.
The investigator also said it was clear esure had sent the cheque on the belief the third party 
insurer had not already reimbursed Mr K. And this action had prevented esure from 
recouping these costs from the third party directly. He said he felt £100 a month would be 
fair and didn't ask it to do anything further.
Mr K disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr K's policy says esure must provide him with the market value for his car. This is common 
across motor insurance policies. Our service doesn't value vehicles ourselves, instead we 
check whether the valuation the insurer has placed on a car is fair. 
When doing so we will typically consider the various recognised trade guides alongside any 
other evidence provided. Sometimes we are provided with adverts for similar cars on auction 
sites, but typically we'll put more weight on the trade guides as cars don't often sell for the 
advertised price  and are often priced to allow for negotiation.I've reviewed each of the relevant trade guides and I'm satisfied esure's estimates are in line 
with these. So it follows that I think esure's offer for settlement is fair. 
When considering the value of a vehicle, often its condition will heavily impact its value. 
esure said the pre-existing damage would cost around £550 to repair. Our established 
approach is that we typically feel an insurer shouldn't deduct more than 50% of the 
estimated cost of repair - which esure hasn't in this case  So again, I'm satisfied esure has 
acted reasonably when valuing Mr K's car taking into account the existing damage.
I've also considered Mr K's concerns about repaying the sum that esure sent by mistake. 
esure offered to allow Mr K to repay at a monthly amount of £75 instead of its initial offer of 
£100. Mr K has given me no reason to suggest why this isn't a reasonable amount. As a 
result I'm satisfied esure has acted fairly and reasonably in its actions and I'm not asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman