DRN-2792753
The complaint
Mr B and Mr L complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim for storm damage on 
their home insurance policy. Where I refer to Ageas this includes its agents and claims 
handlers.
What happened
Mr B and Mr L said an outdoor fixture had been damaged during a storm. But Ageas had 
declined their claim for storm damage. Its surveyor said the structure wasnt properly fixed to 
the floor. Mr B and Mr L said the structure had been very sturdy. It didnt move or rock in any 
way. And if it had theyd have investigated and fixed any problems. Mr B and Mr L were also 
unhappy with the way their claim had been handled. They had to wait a long time on calls. 
And they want Ageas to accept their claim or at least contribute towards their costs.
Ageas apologised for not being able to respond to Mr B and Mr Ls calls within its usual 
timescale. But the pandemic had led to longer than usual wait times. Ageas agreed thered 
been adverse weather at the time of the damage. But the sleepers which the fixture was 
attached to were rotten. And itd allowed the fixings to pull out and twist the structure. 
Ageas said itd declined the claim for storm damage. While the winds had highlighted the 
problem, the damage had been caused by the rotten sleepers. If the structure had been 
sound the damage wouldnt have occurred. The general exclusions clause in their home 
insurance policy excluded damage arising from wear and tear, deterioration, rot or similar 
causes. So its decision to decline the claim had been correct.
Mr B and Mr L werent satisfied with Ageas response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He acknowledged that Mr B and Mr L felt the structure 
was sound and it hadnt experienced any movement prior to the adverse weather. But he felt 
the photos showed signs that the sleepers were rotten. And the metal casings and screws 
used to fix the structure to the sleepers showed signs of corrosion.
After looking at the report and photos our investigator couldnt find any issues with the 
surveyors assessment. The storm had pushed the structure over. But the main reason itd 
collapsed was the rotten sleepers. And that was excluded under the terms of the insurance 
policy. So he couldnt say Mr B and Mr L had been treated unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr B and Mr L didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Any 
weakness hadnt been visible to them, so it was unfair for Ageas to reject their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the damage Mr B and Mr L have suffered to their outside structure. I 
can appreciate it mustve been very upsetting to be told the claim wasnt covered. 
Ive looked at everything thats happened. But Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
This complaint isnt about whether there were storm conditions in the general area of the 
property at the time the damage was sustained. The weather reports show strong winds and 
heavy rainfall at the time. Ageas hasnt disputed this.
The dispute here is about what caused the damage to the outside structure. And thats 
because the home insurance policy specifically excludes loss or damage arising from 
gradual causes, wear and tear, corrosion, deterioration or similar causes, wet or dry rot.
This type of exclusion isnt uncommon in buildings insurance policies. An insurance policy 
isnt intended to cover all of the damage a property might suffer  only damage caused by 
one of the listed insured perils in the policy document. So I need to consider if the storm was 
the main cause of the damage, or did the adverse weather just highlight an existing problem 
with its condition.
After looking at the damaged structure the surveyor felt the main cause of the damage was 
the rotten sleepers the structure had been screwed into. The high winds had merely 
highlighted the existing condition of the base of the structure. And Ageas declined the claim 
because damage due to wear and tear and rot was excluded under the general exclusions 
clause of the home insurance policy.
Insurers often appoint surveyors experienced in this type of work to look at the damage and 
thats what Ageas did here. I think its a fair thing to do  and I think its reasonable for Ageas 
to rely on the surveyors report when deciding whether or not to meet the claim.
I know Mr B and Mr L said the fixture was a high, heavy structure that hadnt been moveable 
before the storm. And they could only see some deterioration under one or two of the 
supporting pillars after itd actually collapsed. But the photos do suggest the sleepers at the 
base of the structure had become rotten. And theres evidence of corrosion in the metal 
casings and screws. If the sleepers had still been in a good condition Id have expected the 
structure to have been able to withstand all but the most severe weather conditions. 
I realise Mr B and Mr L are unhappy Ageas declined the claim due to the wear and tear 
exclusion when they werent aware it was taking place. But its the policyholders 
responsibility to make sure property and structures are well-maintained as theyre best-
placed to notice any potential problems and put them right.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr B and Mr L have provided. And Ive looked at the 
reports of Ageas surveyor. But Im afraid Ive not seen enough to persuade me it was 
unreasonable for Ageas to rely on the surveyors findings and decide there were existing 
issues with the base of the structure.
I think Ageas was entitled to decline Mr B and Mr Ls claim.  And I dont think theyve thrown 
sufficient doubt on the surveyors conclusions to make me think that Ageas should change 
its position.
Based on what Ive seen I think its more likely than not that there were existing problems 
with the structure and that a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. The high winds 
drew attention to a problem that already existed. So the damage wasnt caused by a one-off 
insured peril.
I think Ageas acted in accordance with the terms of the home insurance policy in declining 
the claim. It follows that I think the decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And I wont be asking Ageas to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman