DRN-4347376
The complaint
Ms D complained because The Co-operative Bank plc refused to refund her for gambling 
transactions which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
In July 2023, Ms D contacted the Co-op. She said there had been gambling transactions on 
her account which she hadnt authorised, over a long time.
The Co-op investigated, but it didnt agree that Ms D hadnt authorised the transactions. It 
said that the gambling firms had provided data that linked Ms D to the transactions which 
shed claimed had been unauthorised. So it refused to refund her, and took back temporary 
credits which it had made for some of the disputed transactions.
Ms D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said the gambling accounts hadnt 
been in her name, and that she didnt have money for food and utilities because the Co-op 
had refused to refund her. She said that the Co-op had said this was because the payments 
matched her details. Ms D said that all payments from her account after July 2019 needed to 
be paid back to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. He said the Co-op had done nothing wrong 
in allowing the payments to be processed, and he couldnt reasonably expect the Co-op to 
refund Ms D. 
Ms D didnt agree. She said she hadnt made the payments herself. Nor had she received a 
One Time Passcode (OTP) to authorise the payments. She said shed contacted the Co-op 
as soon as shed seen the payments on her account.
Ms D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Ms D authorised the gambling 
transactions herself.
Ive seen the information provided to the Co-op by the gambling companies. The personal 
information on the gambling companies accounts in Ms Ds name match the personal 
details which Ms D provided to the Co-op and to this service. Ms D said that someone else 
had set up the gambling accounts in her name. But she hasnt explained how she thinks this 
can have happened. She hadnt reported her card lost or stolen, and Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that she told the Co-op, or this service, how her personal information might have 
been obtained by a third party.
Ms D has disputed transactions going back over a long period, back to 2019. Under the 
Payment Services Regulations, a customer must tell the payment service provider (here, the 
Co-op) about any dispute without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date. So the Co-op doesnt have to consider any of the transactions which Ms 
D reported more than 13 months after they took place. 
But Ms Ds delay in reporting the disputed transactions also makes her version less 
convincing. Im not persuaded by her argument that she only logged on to see her balance, 
and didnt notice any of the disputed transactions. Even if shed initially logged on to see her 
balance, I think the number and amount of the transactions would have been immediately 
apparent. This is especially because the account balance was generally low, so the 
transactions would have been more obvious.
Ive also seen that the IP address, a unique computer identifier, used for the transactions 
was the same as one which Ms D used for undisputed transactions. Ms D has said that 
someone else could have used her IP address. Im not persuaded by this. If Ms D allowed 
someone else to use the exact location of her IP address, shed also need to have given that 
person her security details in order to make the payments. If she did that, it would count as 
Ms D authorising the payments.
Some of the transactions also needed additional security to be completed  for example Ive 
seen that OTPs, and memorable account information, were used to approve some of the 
transactions. Ive checked the phone numbers, and the OTPs sent for disputed gambling 
transactions were the same as transactions which Ms D didnt dispute on her Co-op account.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its more likely than not that Ms D carried out 
the disputed transactions herself. So the Co-op doesnt have to refund her. If there are still 
any temporary credits on her account, its also entitled to take these back.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman