DRN-2946664
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about poor advice, delays and overcharging by Skipton Building Society in 
relation to pension transfers.
What happened
Mrs Y and her husband, Mr Y, have been customers of Skipton for some years. In 
December 2020 they had a meeting with a financial adviser from Skipton to discuss a review 
of their pensions and investments. This was followed by another meeting in January 2021 
where it was agreed they would look to move investments including Mrs Ys self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP), her personal pension and an ISA to lower risk investments.
The adviser said he would need to carry out some research, which was completed in late 
January 2020. On 27 February he started drafting a report, which was then referred to 
colleagues in line with Skiptons normal process. 
On 16 March 2020 Skipton told Mr and Mrs Y that the report was ready for them. It was 
delivered to their home address on 20 March and the signed report collected from them on 
23 March. The report recommended that funds held in Mrs Ys ISA, personal pension and 
SIPP be moved to different investments. 
There was then some delay in arranging for the transfers to be processed. On 21 April 2021 
the file was checked and a suitability letter completed. Two of the transfers were then 
completed, but Mrs Y decided not to proceed with the other transfer.
Mr and Mrs Y complained about the time taken from December 2019 to April 2020. They 
said that as a result of the delays, the value of their investments fell and they suffered a loss.  
Skipton issued a final response accepting there had been some delay, but said this hadnt 
caused a loss as claimed, because 
during the period in question Mrs Ys investments had performed better than they 
would have, if they had been transferred to the new provider at that time; and 
although the value of Mr Ys investments had fallen, that was offset by the increase in 
Mrs Ys investment. 
Skipton noted that the report was signed on the day the UK went into a national lockdown as 
a result of the pandemic, which contributed to the delay, but agreed there had also been 
some service failings. 
Skipton said it would reimburse Mrs Y for the fee in respect of the transfer that had not gone 
ahead (with an additional 5%) and offered compensation of £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs Y (£500 to each of them).
Mr and Mrs Y werent happy with the response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator explained that as Mr and Mrs Y were individuals with different investments and 
pensions, we would look at their respective complaints individually. This complaint only 
concerns Mrs Y.
Mrs Y raised some further concerns while we were looking into the complaint and after 
Skipton sent its final response, we agreed to consider this as part of this investigation. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ys complaint should be upheld. She said:
although there were some delays these didnt cause any financial loss;
although Mrs Y complained that she and her husband had been treated as one, there 
was no evidence they had asked to be seen or dealt with separately  they have 
been seen jointly since 2011 and benefitted from a discounted rate for couples; 
there were some inaccuracies in the report but this didnt affect the quality of the 
advice overall;
the offer to refund a proportion of the fee for the transfer that didnt go ahead, with an 
extra 5%, was fair;
the sum of £500 for distress and inconvenience caused, together with a further £100 
following the later complaint, was fair.
Mrs Y disagreed with the investigator. She said some of her concerns had not been 
addressed, in particular concerns around her health and a possible liability for inheritance 
tax (IHT). And she didnt think the proposed compensation was enough.
The investigator considered Mrs Ys further comments but didnt change her view. She said 
the issue of IHT had been covered in the report, and she didnt think Mrs Ys health had 
been a factor in the advice about whether to transfer. 
Mrs Y remains unhappy. She has made a number of further comments. I wont set them out 
in full but the key points include:
Fees were taken when they shouldnt have been, and cant now be repaid into her 
pension. Its not fair if she loses out as a result of this.
The SIPP has shown a return of over 10%; if the funds hadnt been taken to cover 
Skiptons charges, they would have been included in the pension and attracted that 
level of return. So the 5% added to the refund doesnt put her in the position she 
would have been in, if the funds hadnt been taken in the first place.
She received the report and documents on a Friday and was put under pressure to 
sign over the course of a weekend  against a backdrop of the covid pandemic and 
stock market falls. She wasnt able to consider it properly. 
She was told it had to be done urgently before the end of the tax year, but that wasnt 
correct. 
The risk of an IHT liability if she died within two years wasnt highlighted anywhere; 
there is some brief mention of IHT in the report but it wasnt drawn to her attention. If 
she had known there was a possible IHT liability, she would not have gone ahead 
with the transfer of her pension.
She has had serious health concerns. Although shes currently in remission; she is 
still taking medication and will have check-ups for some time to come. Skipton has 
made comments about this which were not contained in the report and are not 
accurate  at no point during the discussions was she asked about her health.
Skipton didnt build a portfolio for her  she was sold an off the shelf package (and 
her husband was persuaded to take out the same package) as it was easier for 
Skipton to do it that way. 
She and her husband have always had joint meetings  each knows about the 
others circumstances  but they were never treated as one. They deliberately had 
different investment portfolios. But they were pushed into having identical 
investments (increasing her husbands risk level and reducing hers so that they 
matched) for no good reason.Each part of the complaint has been considered separately, and so the overall 
context and bigger picture have been missed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y has raised a number of issues which I will deal with in turn.
How the process was managed
I would expect Skipton to deal with the process in a reasonable time and to treat Mrs Y fairly.
Skipton should have provided enough information to allow Mrs Y to make an informed 
choice, and ensured the advice given was suitable for her needs
The adviser obtained the information they needed from Mrs Y, constructed the advice and 
created the suitability report within Skiptons internal service level agreements. But Skipton 
accepts there was some delay once the case was submitted to its head office on 23 March. 
It would normally expect to work to a five working day turnaround from the documents being 
received at head office to process, but in this case the time take from receipt of documents 
was 18 working days. The delays were due to a combination of high business volumes and 
poor customer service on Skiptons part, as well as the Covid-19 pandemic leading to a 
national lockdown.
After those delays, Mrs Y was asked to sign and return the report over the course of a 
weekend. Its not clear what the reason was for this rush and there doesnt seem to be any 
good reason why she couldnt have been given more time to consider the report before 
signing it. Mrs Y could have asked for more time, but it seems to me she was given the 
impression it had to be done that weekend. 
So there were some failings in the process. But that wouldnt necessarily lead me to uphold 
the complaint if there was no financial loss for Mrs Y, and on the basis of the information I 
have seen Im not persuaded there was any loss. Skipton reviewed the performance of the 
investments Mrs Y previously held against the recommended portfolio between 23 March 
and 20 April to assess the impact the delay may have caused. Mrs Ys ISA and pension both 
produced a higher return over this period. So rather than suffering a loss, she was in fact 
better off as a result of the delay; if the transfers had gone through earlier, she would have 
lost money, but that didnt happen.
Having said that, I accept that the way matters were delay with did cause some distress and 
inconvenience, for which some compensation should be paid. I will deal with that below.
The advice given and the suitability report
Mrs Y is unhappy with the quality and content of the suitability report. Skipton accepts there 
were shortcomings in the service offered by the adviser and there were some inaccuracies in 
the report, but says this did not change the advice. Skipton has explained that it has third 
party oversight of the report and it is within industry standards. While I appreciate the report 
had some inaccuracies, I dont think this affected the overall quality of the advice given. 
The context was that Mrs Y wished to leave her money invested but review the risk level of 
the investments, while looking to maximise the growth to be achieved, with the aim being to 
provide a comfortable retirement. The report recommended changes in investments, setting out the advantages and disadvantages, other options considered, the reasons for  
recommending these investments and a comparison of charges.
Skipton says if the global outbreak of Covid-19 had significantly impacted Mrs Ys long-term 
goals the advice may have changed, but there was no evidence this was the case so it was  
appropriate to continue. There was a great deal of volatility in the markets around that time 
but these investments were intended for the long term, so short term changes wouldnt 
necessarily affect the advice.
Mrs Y also complains that she and her husband were pushed into having identical 
investments (increasing her husbands risk level and reducing hers so that they matched) for 
no good reason. She says while they have always had joint meetings  each knows about 
the others circumstances  they were never treated as one and deliberately had different 
investment portfolios. As Im only considering Mrs Ys complaint I cant comment on any 
advice given to Mr Y. I havent seen evidence that persuades me Mrs Y asked to be seen 
separately and she has acknowledged they were always seen together. So I dont think 
there was anything wrong in Skipton dealing with them together. In relation to the advice 
given to her, Ive set out above why I think it her was suitable. Although they were seen 
together their investments were considered separately. And it appears she and Mr Y 
benefitted from a discounted rate due being dealt with together as a joint couple. So I cant 
see that she has suffered any loss in relation to this.
Charges
When the first transfer completed, the charge for the advice given to Mrs Y was taken. A 
proportion of the charge related to the transfer that she then cancelled. I appreciate Mrs Y 
was unhappy about this but Skipton later wrote to explain the steps it was taking to 
reimburse the element of the fees relating to the cancelled transfer. That letter, sent in 
October 2020, set out a breakdown of the charges, how they had been apportioned, and 
how Skipton calculated the refund. I think the way the calculation was done is fair.
Because the charges had been taken, those funds were not invested in the pension. So 
Mrs Y lost out on the potential growth there would have been if they had been within the 
pension during that period. Skipton added a 5% uplift on the payment to reflect this. Mrs Y 
says her funds performed better than that, and a 10% uplift would be a more accurate 
reflection of the loss. The pension may have performed at a better rate than 5%. But Skipton 
has waived all the fee in respect of that transfer, despite the fact the work had all been done 
before Mrs Ys late decision not to proceed with it. Looking at all of this in the round, I think 
the offer was fair.
Inheritance tax liability
Mrs Y says there was a risk of an IHT liability if she died within two years of the transfers, but 
this wasnt highlighted anywhere  although there was a brief mention of IHT in the report it 
wasnt drawn to her attention. She says if she had known there was a possible IHT liability, 
she would not have gone ahead with the transfer of her pension. Shes also unhappy that 
her health wasnt considered and she wasnt asked any questions about this.
While the IHT risk may not have been specifically brought to her attention, IHT is clearly 
mentioned in the report, and the report says the issue of IHT was raised but she didnt want 
advice on that. If Mrs Y said she didnt want advice on IHT liability I wouldnt expect that to 
be given. In any event, there hasnt been any liability so she has not suffered a loss in 
relation to this.
SummaryIve considered things in the round, taking into account the sequence of events between 
December 2019 and April 2020, and the various concerns Mrs Y has raised. Although there 
were some failings in the process, overall I dont consider the advice given was unsuitable or 
that Mrs Y suffered a financial loss. But the way the process was managed caused her some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience during a period from late March to late April 2020. 
There was also the distress of feeling pressured to sign the report at short notice, and a 
delay responding to the further complaint. I have thought about this carefully. Taking into 
account the upset caused and the timescales involved, I think the payments of £500 together 
with a further £100 following the later complaint, are fair to reflect the distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman