DRN-3309984
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) mis-sold 
them both term assurance policies.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr M and Ms S met with an advisor from AFH. Theyve told us they were 
looking to have joint cover that would pay out quickly if either one of them died. They were 
sold individual policies. Mr Ms policy provided just under £50,000 life cover for 12 years and 
around £15,000 cover for serious illness for 11 years. Ms S policy covered her for around 
£50,000 life cover for 15 years and £10,000 of serious illness cover for a term of ten years.
In 2019, Mr M and Ms S found out that the policies were separate and wouldnt pay out 
quickly as they werent written in trust. They felt that they were mis-sold these policies so 
cancelled them and complained. Mr M and Ms S believed they shouldve been given a joint 
policy from the outset.
Our investigator agreed, and asked AFH to calculate how much a joint policy would be for 
£50,000 life cover and £15,000 serious illness on the term of 15 year and 11 years 
respectively. AFH showed us that the cost of a joint policy wouldve been higher and so 
there was no financial loss.
Mr M and Ms S didnt accept this recommendation. They want a full refund of premiums. 
Upon further investigation it was noticed that Ms S date of birth was incorrect  this meant 
the premiums were based on her being older than she was. AFH calculated the difference in 
premiums had Ms S correct age been given at the outset and found there was 
compensation due. Mr M and Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision as they felt the 
policies were mis-sold and they wanted a full refund of premiums.
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2022 setting out why I felt the 
complaint should be upheld. Both parties have accepted my provisional decision so Ive set 
the same findings out below that were set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr M and Ms S need life and serious illness cover?
Mr M and Ms S have said throughout that the cover was mis-sold. However, they have said 
they wanted cover  they just wanted it to work in a different way  that is to have had joint 
cover that would pay out quickly. The policy provider has confirmed this couldve been done 
by writing the policy into trust and I understand why Mr M and Ms S feel unhappy that AFH 
didnt advise them to do this.
Its clear though that overall both Mr M and Ms S wanted to have life cover. Its also clear 
from their application that they would find it hard financially if they became seriously ill, so I 
dont think having serious illness cover was unsuitable for them both. But my role here is to 
look at whether the cover AFH recommended was suitable for them at the time.
Was Mr Ms cover suitable?
Mr M has provided us with evidence to show he had life cover in place with the same 
provider at the time AFH advised him. Ive seen his bank statements showing he paid for this 
cover until he was recommended his new policy. This indicates he cancelled his original 
policy to replace it with the new one. AFHs notes dont contain any reasoning as to why 
Mr M needed a different policy, or why the one recommended met his needs. As Mr M was 
receiving advice from AFH, I think its reasonable to assume he was told to replace his policy 
with his new one. But I dont think this was suitable advice. Mr Ms original policy  which 
was taken out in 2016  gave him double the life cover for a longer period of time. It also 
provided him with the same level of serious illness cover. There seems to be a very small 
difference in cost when looking at Mr Ms bank statements so its unclear why AFH 
recommended a policy which provided a lot less cover for less time for a similar cost to what 
he already had. As such, I dont think the recommendation to Mr M was suitable.
From the bank statements Mr M has provided I dont think hes lost out. It appears he always 
wanted a joint policy so I dont think he would still have his original policy in place as it was a 
single life policy. But AFH should find out how much Mr M paid the provider for the policy it 
recommended him policy to ensure there was no financial loss when comparing it with the 
cost he wouldve paid for his original policy over the same period of time. If there is a loss, Id 
expect AFH to pay interest on that loss which Ill detail below.
Was Ms S cover suitable?
Ms S didnt appear to have life cover at the time AFH advised her. And I dont think it was 
unsuitable to advise her to have both life and serious illness cover. Mr M and Ms S clearly 
wanted to be able to leave money to each other in the event of their deaths and having the 
serious illness cover meant shed receive a lump sum if she couldnt work because of a 
serious illness. So, I dont think this policy recommendation was unsuitable. The policy fit her 
needs up to her set age of retirement and for the budget she had set.
Should AFH have recommended a joint policy?
Its clear to me that Mr M and Ms S feel they shouldve had a joint policy. I can see that our 
investigator agreed with this but AFH showed us this wouldve been more expensive. I can 
see that Mr M provided us with an illustration of a joint policy he received in 2016. But that 
policy, whilst cheaper, didnt include any cover for serious illness. So, I dont think it is a true 
comparison. AFH has shown us the calculations from the policy provider to show that joint 
cover wouldve been more expensive so I dont think it was unreasonable for single cover to 
have been offered. And, in any event, I think that only Ms S shouldve been offered cover, as 
Mr M already had suitable cover in place.
A key part of Mr M and Ms S complaint is the speed of which the policy wouldve paid out. 
This is why they say they wanted a joint policy. But the faster pay-out couldve been solved 
by writing their policies in trust for each other  this means that the payment would fall 
outside of their estate and instead go to the surviving partner. I can see that AFH mentioned 
that writing the policy into trust is an option. But I dont think that the suitability letter gave 
any real personalised advice or recommendations. There arent any reasons as to why Mr M 
and Ms S were recommended the policies they were, and I think AFH couldve done a better 
job at explaining to Mr M and Ms S their options in relation to putting the policies in trust. As these policies have been cancelled without a claim being made, I dont think Mr M and Ms S 
have lost out because of this, but I can understand why they were frustrated to hear that the 
policies wouldve been paid to the estate when this wasnt what they wanted.
Administrative errors
When AFH submitted Ms S application for her policy it gave an incorrect date of birth. This 
meant the premium was higher than it shouldve been as it was calculated on Ms S being 
older than she was. AFH has already calculated that there has been a loss here and should 
pay Mr M and Ms S the difference in premiums to reflect what Ms S policy wouldve cost 
had the correct date of birth been used plus interest.
Its clear to me that AFH hasnt provided a good service. It hasnt shown that it explained 
why Mr M and Ms S were recommended the policies they were, Mr M already had better 
cover in place and it made an error on Ms S application form which led her to paying higher 
premiums. I think that all of this wouldve caused Mr M and Ms S frustration and stress. 
Whilst I dont think that a refund of premiums is fair because they both required the cover, I 
do think that the errors AFH has made has caused them trouble and upset. As a result, I 
think that AFH should pay Mr M and Ms S £250 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience it has caused them.
Putting things right
AFH Independent Financial Solutions Limited must do the following:
- Compare what Mr M wouldve paid under his original policy and what he paid under 
the policy sold by AFH from inception of the new policy to cancellation. If he has paid 
more in premiums, refund the difference in premium with 8% simple interest* from 
the date it was paid to the date of settlement. 
- Calculate the difference in premiums that Ms S paid and what she shouldve paid had 
her policy been set up with her correct date of birth. Refund the difference plus 8% 
simple interest* from the date the premiums were paid to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr M and Ms S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
errors made.
*If AFH Independent Financial Solutions Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Ms S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr M and Ms S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AFH Financial Solutions Limited must follow the redress set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman