DRN-2333318
The complaint
Ms F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by accepting 
an application for an indemnity insurance policy. She wants the costs of storing her 
belonging, alternative accommodation and other costs such as repairing the property to be 
paid by Aviva, together with compensation for the trouble and upset and loss of income 
shes suffered.
What happened
Ms F wanted to buy a property in 2016, but the seller couldnt provide all the documents 
required. The seller paid for a legal indemnity insurance policy with Aviva and the sale 
completed. The policy covered specific issues with the planning permission or building 
regulations affecting the property.
Ms F said that the terms and conditions of the policy required that a survey was obtained 
and that it didnt recommend any remedial works were carried out. She also pointed out that 
the terms of the planning permission given for the property required that it was to be used 
continuously as a private dwelling for the last 12 months. Ms F said none of this was true in 
the case of the property she bought, which she said was unsafe and needed significant work 
to be undertaken.
Ms F said that Aviva didnt check the information it was given was correct and or check that 
a solicitor or conveyancer had signed to say the information given to Aviva was accurate and 
contained no omissions. Ms F said that the seller hadnt given accurate information to Aviva 
and had misrepresented the true position as the property was structurally unsafe and the 
installation of the utilities werent correct. She was unhappy that Aviva had not pursued the 
seller for fraudulent misrepresentation.
Ms F complained to Aviva, saying that shed been misled into believing the property was 
safe to buy. Aviva confirmed that the application for this type of policy had to be made by a 
solicitor or licenced conveyancer and this had happened in this case. Aviva had relied on the 
information it was given by the conveyancer. Aviva also explained to Ms F that the policy 
only covered specific events, such as enforcement of breaches by the local authority, not the 
quality of the property. This was why Ms F couldnt make a claim under the policy as it didnt 
cover the event that Ms F wanted repairs made to it, but it could cover her if the local 
authority was threatening to take her to court about the matter.
 
Ms F complained to us, and said anyone could log into Avivas system to get a policy and it 
was responsible for the consequences. The investigators view was that Aviva wasnt at 
fault. She said that the complaint was against Aviva and much of the actions complained of 
by Ms F were by third parties. The policy had been taken out by a firm of licensed 
conveyancers, who had completed the application online and confirmed the statements 
required to get the policy issued immediately. Avivas process in such circumstances wasnt 
to check any further but to rely on the representations of the conveyancer, and the 
investigator felt this was fair and reasonable. She said that Aviva hadnt knowingly allowed a 
policy to be issued based on a misrepresentation.
Ms F disagreed. She didnt agree the firm involved were conveyancers and noted a draft 
policy existed in March 2016. Ms F highlighted issues she said made the transaction 
suspicious and that shows the representations made to Aviva were untrue. The investigator 
explained that Aviva wasnt responsible for the actions of the conveyancer and didnt need to 
carry out more checks when issuing the policy. Ms F continued to disagree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. While Ms F says she 
hasnt made a claim under the policy, she has as she is trying to get Aviva to pay. Insurers 
are only obliged to consider requests for payment if theres a policy in place.
The type of policy Ms F is relying upon is a standard indemnity policy taken out to deal with 
any concerns about the planning permission or building regulations affecting a property 
thats being sold. Aviva is correct to say the policy isnt a guarantee of quality and isnt 
designed to meet Ms Fs request for money. It is activated by the local authority threatening 
action against Ms F, not by Ms F finding things that mightnt comply with the building 
regulation rules. I can see Aviva has explained this to Ms F since 2016 and the letters from 
the local authority Ive seen from 2019 simply asks Ms F to make an application. 
It isnt fair or reasonable to expect insurers to pay for something they didnt insure, and I 
wouldve expected Ms Fs solicitor to have explained to her the purpose of the policy so she 
could decide whether to go ahead with the purchase.
But Ms Fs complaint to this service centres on her unhappiness about how the policy has 
been taken out. Its fair and reasonable for insurers to rely on the word of solicitors or 
licenced conveyancers (who in turn may be relying on the word of their client, depending on 
the question asked). Avivas process (and this service cant require an insurer to change its 
process) is to rely on the representations put forward by a solicitor or licensed conveyancer, 
unless they cant provide the representations required, and to issue the policy immediately if 
the representations required are made. 
The firm involved in this case are licensed conveyancers and Avivas process is what 
happened in Ms Fs case. Given what the conveyancers had represented, I cant see any 
indication to put Aviva on notice that it mayve been misled. Theres nothing suspicious in my 
view in the points put forward by Ms F in her response to the investigators view, but in any 
event, they dont deal with the point that the policy simply doesnt cover Ms F as she wishes 
and isnt a guarantee of quality, or that Aviva applied its process correctly, fairly and 
reasonably.
As the investigator has explained, Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of third parties. I 
would add that the survey Ms F told Aviva she had obtained before purchase shouldve told 
her the information she needed to know about the property. It isnt the purpose of an 
insurance policy taken out to address specific matters to provide information about the 
quality of a property.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman