DRN-3342487
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about information recorded on their credit files by 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited in respect of their mortgage account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021, the findings of which said:
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt agree to the three-month payment holiday. As our 
investigator explained, Mr and Mrs M werent disadvantaged financially due to the 
payment holiday being put in place as it meant payments werent needed for those 
months, so the payments they did make went straight to paying off their arrears balance. 
This meant their arrears are now cleared, whereas if the payment holiday hadnt been put 
on the account there would still be an arrears balance now (based on the payments they 
were making). For that reason, I need not make any further comment about whether or 
not the payment holiday was agreed to.
That said, I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs Ms credit file shouldnt have been 
impacted by the payment holiday being put on their account. Mr and Mrs M had been in 
an arrangement to pay for many years, and for every month where they met that 
arrangement their credit files should reflect that. It also should reflect that, for the 
three-month payment holiday, no payments were due for that time therefore the 
arrangement was kept to. 
I understand Kensington has said that Mr and Mrs M needed to set the payment 
arrangement up again following the end of the payment holiday, but Mr and Mrs M didnt 
know that and there seems no good reason for that. The payment arrangement had been 
agreed many years ago and shouldnt have needed to have been set up again just 
because of the Covid payment holiday  that would be treating Mr and Mrs M unfairly 
compared to other customers. For that reason Im satisfied the months after the payment 
holiday should also be shown as being in an arrangement to pay.
It isnt clear exactly what has been reported now as this complaint has been fairly 
piecemeal. I can see Kensington had previously offered to change some of the reporting.
It appears from the information provided by Kensington that it reported the following 
information:
January 2020 6 months arrears with arrangement to pay
February 2020 6 months arrears with arrangement to pay
March 2020 6 months arrears
April 2020 6 months arrears
May 2020 5 months arrears
June 2020 4 months arrears
July 2020 1 month arrears
August 2020 2 months arrears
September 2020 no arrears
As Ive already explained, Kensington should also mark the mortgage as being in an 
arrangement to pay for April, May, June, July and August 2020 (or any months it hasnt 
already done so for).
Mr M has said that September 2020 is showing as missed and provided information from 
ClearScore to show that. Kensington said it reported the account as not having arrears 
that month.
Our investigator asked Mr M to provide a copy of his credit file from Experian, Equifax or 
TransUnion but he didnt want to do that as he felt the information he provided from 
ClearScore was enough. But I dont agree. Mr M is telling us the information that 
Kensington has reported on his credit file is wrong, but we cant tell that from ClearScore 
because it doesnt show the information in the format that we need. In fact, ClearScores 
own website admits there are issues with the way it shows data:
Why is my payment plan showing as a missed payment?
Your payment plan may show a missed payment, however, this is a known display issue 
thats affecting a small portion of our users.
I can assure you that this is simply a display issue and doesnt impact your credit report or 
score.
Our tech team is working hard to make this clearer for you and I hope this clears things 
up.
Now Mr Ms report may be affected by that issue, it may not. We have no way of knowing.
Either way the format of the ClearScore report isnt sufficient for me to fairly decide 
whether Kensington has made all the mistakes Mr and Mrs M believe it has. If 
Mr and Mrs M want me to consider ordering Kensington to do more than Ive laid out 
above then theyll need to provide our investigator with a full copy of their credit file report 
from Experian, Equifax or TransUnion (not Credit Karma).
I now turn to the matter of compensation. Kensington has already offered £300 across 
two final responses - £200 in June 2020 and £100 in October 2020. I can see how difficult 
this has been for Mr and Mrs M, they had to make various phone calls to Kensington and 
even now it isnt clear if their credit files have been fully corrected.
That said, Mr and Mrs M were in arrears so whilst they say theyve lost the opportunity to 
take out other financial products due to this, Im not persuaded by that. Many providers 
wouldnt view an account six-months in arrears much differently to an account that is still 
six-months in arrears, but has an active arrangement to pay, for example. Mr and Mrs M 
havent provided any evidence that they would have been able to obtain any financial 
products but for the account not showing as in an arrangement.
I must also keep in mind that theyve gained from this as due to the payment holidays 
being put on their account which they say they didnt want, their mortgage account has 
come out of arrears much sooner than it would have done otherwise. Putting everything 
together I feel a further £100 compensation is fair and reasonable, on top of the £300 that 
has already been offered.In summary Im provisionally minded to order Kensington to: 
Report to the credit reference agencies that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was in an 
arrangement to pay for April, May, June, July and August 2020.
Pay a further £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M (on top of the £300 it has 
already offered).
If Mr and Mrs M provide a copy of their credit file report from Experian, Equifax or 
TransUnion and it shows further information that I consider has been recorded incorrectly 
then this redress will be changed. But without that information this is likely to be my final 
award.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional findings and didnt send a copy of their credit file 
report from Experian, Equifax or TransUnion as I detailed in my provisional decision.
Kensington said that its final response letters had already said that it would update the credit 
file information for April, May, June and July 2020 therefore all the changes have already 
happened. It also said that it believed August 2020 will also reflect an arrangement but had 
been unable to obtain the information it needed from Mr and Mrs M (that is, a report from 
one of the three recognised credit reference agencies) to support that. Based on what it said 
it didnt agree a further £100 compensation was due. It asked for a further two weeks to try 
to obtain further information.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy that Kensington had asked for more time and asked me to take 
into consideration the time and inconvenience, plus mental strain this had put on them.
Kensington was unable to obtain the information it wanted and so the case was returned to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read all the submissions made in response to my provisional decision, and considered 
the full file afresh, and having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
I note Kensingtons comments that it had already offered to make the amendments to 
Mr and Mrs Ms credit file information in its responses to the complaint, and so it doesnt feel 
a further £100 compensation is warranted. 
Ive considered this point very carefully, but I dont agree the further £100 is unwarranted. As 
I said in my provisional decision, the response to the complaint has been fairly piecemeal, 
with various different responses from the business. For example, the letter from 26 October 
2020 said it had been issued following an internal review of the complaint and response. I 
think Kensington could have potentially resolved this complaint a lot sooner had it been clear 
in what it had reported, what amendments had been made and why that was now correct.
Equally I dont feel a higher payment is due as whilst Kensington could have made things 
clearer to Mr and Mrs M, Ive not seen the evidence I need  which as I explained was a 
copy of Mr and Mrs Ms actual credit file from either Experian, Equifax or TransUnion directly 
 to show that Kensington hadnt already made the corrections as it said it would and that 
information was showing incorrectly. Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs M have sent us various screenshots from different credit 
reporting applications, they arent sufficient for me to be able to uphold a complaint as that is 
third party data, which by one of the applications own admission it knew potentially had 
errors in it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Report to the credit reference agencies that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was in an 
arrangement to pay for April, May, June, July and August 2020 (if its not already 
done so). I put this in here, despite Kensington saying it has already been done, as if 
proof is obtained by Mr and Mrs M by way of a copy of their credit reports directly 
from Experian, Equifax or TransUnion then they can use this to enforce the 
amendments to be made if they wish.
Pay a further £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M (on top of the £300 it has already 
offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman