DRN-4083320
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt correctly inform him that he wouldnt 
be able to view his pending transactions via online banking.
What happened
Mr F wanted to open a bank account where he could avoid using a mobile banking app and 
could view all his banking information via online banking. Mr F spoke with someone at 
Nationwide who assured him that Nationwides online banking facility would be suitable for 
his needs. But after Mr F applied for a Nationwide Flex Account online, he then discovered 
that information about pending transactions cant be viewed via the online banking facility 
and is only available for digital users via Nationwides mobile banking app. Mr F wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr F and confirmed that pending transaction information isnt 
visible on their online banking platform and explained why this was the case. And 
Nationwide also explained they had no record of Mr F ever being told that it would be. Mr F 
wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I specifically highlight the impartial nature of service because, while its clear from Mr Fs 
correspondence that he feels very strongly about this matter, Im obliged to conduct my 
assessment of his complaint from an impartial perspective. 
From such a perspective, if I accept Mr Fs testimony as to whats taken place, whats 
happened here appears to be a relatively minor provision of incorrect information by one of 
Nationwides staff. Specifically, Mr F asked Nationwides staff member whether the online 
banking platform had full functionality, and the staff member assured Mr F that it did. 
Mr F later learned that this wasnt the case because pending transaction information isnt 
visible on the online banking platform. And at this stage, if Mr F was unhappy about this, he 
was free to seek another account with an alternative banking provider which did provide 
pending transaction information on its online banking platform.
However, as alluded to above, Mr F feels very strongly about this matter and has explained 
to both Nationwide and this service that he feels that because Nationwide dont show 
pending transaction information on their online banking platform that he is being 
discriminated against. 
Having looked at all the evidence here, I dont feel that Nationwide has discriminated against 
Mr F. This is because pending transaction information is available to Mr F via other channels 
which Mr F can access should he choose to do so. I hope it helps Mr F to know that 
someone impartial and independent has looked into this aspect of his complaint.
Additionally, while it may have been the case that Mr F asked about the functionality of 
Nationwides online banking platform, it doesnt appear to have been the case that pending 
transaction information specifically was discussed. And while a Nationwide staff member 
may have incorrectly informed Mr F that the online banking platform had full functionality, 
Nationwides website  which Mr F used to apply for the account  does confirm that 
pending transaction information isnt available on the online banking platform. This is as per 
the Pending Transactions page in the help section and includes the following:
You can check your account balance and available balance in the Internet Bank, 
but you wont be able to see your pending transactions.
There also appears to be some confusion as to when Mr F was told by Nationwide that the 
online banking platform had full functionality. And I note that Mr F has explained to this 
service, in an email dated 5 April 2023, that this was explained to him after hed already 
applied for a Nationwide account.
I was assured in the phone call after completing the online application and being 
accepted and notified that I was now a customer of Nationwide, that I would be given 
an online account and had right to expect the same provisions as had been present 
in the online accounts of several previous banks that I had used.
But if was the case that Mr F had already applied for the account before he was misinformed 
about the functionality of the online banking platform, then that misinformation had no impact 
on whether Mr F applied for the account, because hed already done so.
Mr F has stated to this service that hes unhappy that Nationwide havent provided any valid 
reason for pending transaction information not being visible on their online banking platform. 
But in their response to Mr Fs complaint Nationwide explained to him that 95% of digital 
banking is undertaken via their mobile banking app, meaning that only approximately 5% of 
digital banking is conducted on the online banking platform. 
Nationwide also explained to Mr F that as a building society funded by their members, 
theyve taken the commercial decision to prioritise the functionality of the mobile banking app 
 because its more widely used by their members. This seems reasonable to me, and 
ultimately how Nationwide choose to structure their mobile banking app and online banking 
platform are commercial decisions that Nationwide are entitled to make. 
Finally, I note that in his correspondence with this service, Mr F has referred to himself as a 
paying customer throughout. However, the Nationwide Flex Account that Mr F applied for 
and which he is unhappy about is a free account which doesnt incur any fees. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly towards Mr F in the 
manner that he contends here. And while Mr F may have been told incorrectly that Nationwides online banking platform had full functionality, I dont feel that the impact of that 
potential misinformation merits any further action from Nationwide at this time.
I take this position because information about pending transactions on his account was 
available to Mr F via other channels, and because I feel that Mr F could reasonably have 
avoided much of the time and effort hes expended on this matter after learning that pending 
transaction information wasnt available online by moving his business elsewhere if he 
wasnt happy at having to use those alternative channels to access his pending transaction 
information.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman