DRN-3595959
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that a fault was misdiagnosed on her car when she sought assistance 
under a vehicle breakdown cover policy she held with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV).
All reference to the underwriter LV in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs Ss car wouldnt start and she called LV for assistance. The recovery
agents job sheet said that the fault was with the battery. The agent was able to start Mrs Ss
car. She says the recovery agent advised her to drive straight to a garage to get the battery
replaced.
Mrs S says she and her husband took the car to a garage and paid for the battery to be
replaced on the advice of the recovery agent. However, when the battery was replaced, the
car didnt start.
A garage diagnosed a fault with the connection to the battery. Mrs S arranged for the
existing battery to be refitted  which was now working once the fault was diagnosed. She
says she tried to return the new battery and get a refund but couldnt as the garage said it
had been used.
Mrs S complained to LV. She wanted it to cover the costs of the new battery shed paid for.
LV didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said the recovery agents diagnosis is limited at the
roadside and advice is given to follow up with a garage before repairs are completed. LV
said the agents job notes confirm that they advised a garage inspection in relation to a
suspected faulty battery.
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought it
was more likely than not that the agent did advise Mrs S to get the battery replaced. She
recommended LV pay 50% of the costs to replace the battery.
Mrs S thought LV should cover the costs of the new battery in full - but accepted the
Investigators view.
LV said our view is based on an alleged conversation between the recovery agent and Mrs
S. The job sheet says the recovery agent advised a garage inspection and LVs terms and
conditions say any diagnosis is provisional.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2022. I didnt doubt that there was a discussion 
between the recovery agent and Mr and Mrs S about the battery. But I looked at what the 
agents job sheet recorded and I couldnt say that it was more likely than not that the agent 
said a new battery would be required without the need for a diagnosis or inspection by a 
garage. So based on what Mrs Ss policy says  and the evidence recorded in the job sheet 
 I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
LV said it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She says Mr S suggested the fault was with the electrics but the 
recovery agent was adamant it was with the battery and advised them to take the car 
immediately to get the battery replaced.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key section from Mrs Ss policy with LV says;
Any diagnosis by our breakdown professional is only provisional: you may require a
follow up diagnosis by your own repairer, at your own cost, to determine the exact
nature of the breakdown and what work or parts are required for repairs to be
completed.
I understand Mrs S says the recovery agent advised her to go to a garage and get the
battery replaced. The recovery agents job sheet doesnt say this. When there is a dispute as
to what was said, we look at the available evidence and consider what most likely happened
on the balance of probability.
The job sheet provided by the recovery agent shows the fault found as; battery  faulty car
battery
'Flat battery boost started alternator OK battery tester indicates replace after charge advise 
garage inspection'
The job sheet goes on to list a number of options to be ticked or left blank. Mrs Ss name
and a signature in acceptance is at the bottom of the job sheet. The option ticked reads:
Acceptance that the fault suggested is 'SUSPECTED' (agents use of capital letters)
using the best capabilities available at the roadside, a full workshop diagnosis is
necessary.
Ive no doubt that there was a discussion between the recovery agent and Mr and Mrs S 
around the possibility of the battery requiring replacement. But I cant say on balance that 
the recovery agent more likely than not stated a new battery was needed without the need 
for a diagnosis or inspection by a garage. This would have been a cost Mrs S was 
responsible for.
From the information available to me, I cant safely conclude that the agent gave advice
outside of the information recorded on the job sheet which Mrs S accepted and which follows
the terms of LVs policy.
It seems that an inspection wasnt carried out until after the car battery was replaced and
didnt fix the fault. And so I dont think LV is responsible for the costs of a replacement
battery which was fitted before a diagnosis was carried out by the garage. On balance, I
think the information shows LV and the recovery agent followed the correct process when
providing assistance at the roadside. So I dont think LV needs to do any more.My final decision
I understand Mrs S will be very disappointed. But my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman