DRN-1248546
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc didn't pay him compensation it said it would and failed to 
acknowledge his later complaint.
What happened
Mr K says he and his partner both made individual complaints to TSB following its well 
known account access problems. He says he and his partner have individual accounts as 
well as a joint account but their complaints were in respect of their own accounts. Mr K says 
they were both offered £150 compensation in  2018 but his partner received the payment 
and he didn't. He says he told TSB this but it ignored his complaints and told him the 
payment had been made to the joint account. Mr K would like the compensation and further 
compensation for how he was the treated by TSB.
TSB says the compensation payment was made to Mr K on 15 November 2018 and disputes 
that two separate complaints were set up.It says only one payment would have been due in 
any event as this was a joint account and questions if Mr K or his partner has two separate 
complaint acknowledgement letters.
Mr K unhappy with that response brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the 
complaint. In summary the investigator thought TSB's records appear to show the complaint 
being set up in Mr K's partners name and with his account before changing to Mr K and his 
details. The investigator didn't think TSB could explain what had taken place and thought it 
likely two separate complaints had been made. The Investigator didn't think TSB had 
handled Mr K's complaint appropriately and recommended TSB pay the £150 and a further 
£50 for its poor customer service .
Mr K doesn't accept that view and says the additional compensation award doesn't go far 
enough in recognising TSB's handling of matters when he raised the issue and that its now 
admitted breaching  data protection rules. He says he spent a significant amount of time in 
dealing with this complaint and that it's been some time since the original complaint.
TSB also doesn't accept the investigator's view. It says its final response letter is addressed 
to Mr K and there is no evidence Mr K's partner was offered any compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for the reasons I will explain.
I appreciate TSB says it set up one complaint and so correctly made one compensation 
payment. That contrasts with what Mr K says that both he and his partner made individual 
complaints. So I have looked at TSB's records and I can see that it set up a complaint in 
April 2018 in Mr K's partner's name using his personal details including his account details,date of birth and mobile telephone number. I can see at some point the complaint 
was changed to Mr K's name but the payment information gives details of the payee as 
being Mr K's partner.
I don't think TSB can explain what has taken place or why the complaint name has been 
changed in this way. And I don't accept what it says, that there isn't any evidence to suggest 
Mr K's partner was offered the compensation. For the reasons I have explained I'm satisfied 
TSB's own records say that Mr K's partner was the intended recipient of the compensation. 
But I accept that letter about the compensation was addressed to Mr K and I accept that it 
could be said that Mr K did receive the compensation but his partner did not.
I'm satisfied on balance that both Mr K and his partner raised separate individual 
complaints.And I'm also satisfied both have individual accounts and it likely that TSB would 
have paid them compensation individually . I appreciate Mr K and his partner also have a 
joint account but I'm satisfied their original complaints were not about that account but their 
sole accounts and the inability to use them.
I'm satisfied that only one payment of compensation was made and that Mr K says that was 
treated by him as his partner's payment. So I think the fairest approach would be for TSB to 
pay Mr K the £150 compensation.
I appreciate that Mr K says TSB has breached information protection rules and I can see that 
he is in the process of raising that issue with the Information Commissioner's Office. The 
investigator has explained that its not our role to make such determinations and I can't see 
any evidence that Mr K has suffered any financial loss as a result of his partner's details 
being recorded in this way on the complaint information.
I don't think TSB then dealt fairly with Mr K when he raised his complaint about not receiving 
the compensation or looked carefully in what had taken place. I think it ought to have 
realised from its records that there appeared to be conflicting information about the 
complaint and in whose name it had been set up. I also accept that Mr K's questions and 
attempts to find out what had happened were not acknowledged. So I have no doubt Mr K 
was caused frustration and inconvenience in those circumstances. But whilst I'm sorry to 
disappoint Mr K I don't think that justifies more compensation that the investigator 
recommended. I'm satisfied £50 compensation for what took place is fair and reasonable. I 
don't think Mr K suffered any financial loss as a result of TSB's lack of response or that the 
level of frustration and inconvenience was significant. 
Putting things right
Overall I uphold this complaint and for the reasons I have explained am satisfied the 
compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr K £200 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman