DRN-3443414
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, didnt set up a three-month payment
holiday on his account when he informed that that he was unable to make payments towards
his account because of the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
Mr W had a NewDay administered credit account. In April 2020, Mr W contracted Covid-19
and was admitted into hospital, where he remained until June 2020. When Mr W was
discharged from hospital, he was unable to work, so he contacted NewDay and advised
them of the situation and requested financial assistance.
At that time, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had temporary guidance which
prescribed three-month payment holidays for people such as Mr W who had been financially
impacted by Covid-19. However, because Mr Ws account had fallen into arrears during the
time that hed been admitted to hospital, NewDay didnt feel that Mr W met the eligibility
criteria for these payment holidays  which included that a credit account shouldnt be in
existing arrears  and so they didnt offer such a payment holiday to Mr W.
Instead, NewDay placed a three-month hold on Mr Ws account where arrears would accrue
and where those arrears would be reported to the credit reference agencies. It was also that
case that while Mr W wasnt obliged to make a payment during the three-month hold, if the
arrears on his account grew to a certain amount, NewDay retained the right to begin account
default proceedings against him.
Mr W didnt make a payment towards his account during the payment hold period, and the
arrears on his account did grow such that NewDay did issue a default notice on the account
to him and subsequently defaulted the account. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he made a
complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Ws complaint. But they felt that they had provided appropriate
financial support to Mr W and that theyd followed the default process fairly. So, they didnt
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that NewDay should have
understood that the reason that Mr Ws account had fallen into arrears was because of
Covid-19 and that NewDay should have taken this into account and applied a three-month
FCA prescribed payment holiday to Mr Ws account retrospectively. Because of this, our
investigator felt that NewDay should amend aspects of Mr Ws credit file reporting and make
a payment to Mr W of £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset that hed incurred.
NewDay didnt agree with the view put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 March 2022 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have 
their credit file impacted by doing so.
Later continuing guidance issued by the FCA prescribed the provision of a second 
three-month payment holiday if an eligible consumer still required it, and also that if a 
consumer was still in financial difficulty following the second three-month payment 
holiday that credit providers should offer that consumer continuing financial support.
The FCA issued this guidance because it was concerned that consumers who until 
that time had been able to manage their credit commitments without significant issue 
may incur adverse credit reporting because of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was 
having an unprecedented impact on many consumers ability to meet their financial 
commitments.
Given that Mr W first missed payments due on his NewDay account because he was 
in hospital with Covid-19 and therefore unable to work, its difficult to reach any 
conclusion other than Mr W was the kind of consumer the FCA guidance was 
designed to protect. And it doesnt feel fair to me that Mr W was denied the benefit of 
the three-month payment holidays because he was incapacitated by Covid-19 and 
unable to contact NewDay before his account fell into arrears.
As such, I do feel that when Mr W first contacted NewDay after leaving the hospital 
that NewDay should have recognised the nature of Mr Ws circumstances and 
retrospectively backdated an FCA prescribed three-month payment holiday to Mr Ws 
account. This would then also have enabled NewDay to later apply a second such 
three-month payment holiday to Mr Ws account, thus enabling Mr W to benefit in the 
manner that the FCA guidance was designed to provide.
Importantly however, the type of payment holiday prescribed by the FCA wasnt 
available indefinitely, and while Mr W would still have been eligible to receive 
continuing financial assistance from NewDay following the end of any second three-
month payment holiday he received, this continuing assistance wouldnt have been 
on the same terms as the FCA prescribed three-month payment holidays and 
wouldnt have included that missed payments werent reported to the credit reference 
agencies.
Instead, any continuing financial assistance that Mr W did receive from NewDay in 
this regard, which in all likelihood would have been from November 2020 onwards, 
would have included that if Mr W wasnt able to make any monthly account payments 
that these payments would be considered as arrears and would be reported to the credit reference agencies. And while Mr W was receiving such ongoing assistance 
from NewDay, if the arrears on Mr Ws account grew to a point where it was 
reasonable for NewDay to begin default proceedings on the account, NewDay would 
have been expected to have done so.
The reason for this is because its considered irresponsible for credit providers such 
as NewDay to allow a customer to fall further and further into arrears, and thus 
further and further into debt indefinitely, if that customer cant make the payments 
due on the account.
Instead, if a customer falls into significant arrears such that a credit provider doesnt 
feel that the customer has a reasonable chance of recovering their financial position, 
its considered good practice for that credit provider to default that account  which 
has the effect of freezing the balance outstanding on that account such that no 
further interest accrues and so that the customer doesnt fall any further into debt that 
they already are.
In this instance, Mr W has stated to this service that unfortunately, after leaving the 
hospital, the continuing effects of Covid-19 did impact his ability to work and his 
ongoing financial position such he doesnt feel that he would have been able to 
resume payments in November 2020, but that he would only have been able to 
resume making payments to the account in April 2021  and the payment history on 
Mr Ws account supports this position.
This means that, even had Mr W been given the two FCA prescribed three-month 
payment holidays that I feel he should have been given, any payments that Mr W 
wasnt able to make following those payment holidays  from November 2020 
onwards  would have been considered as arrears and would have been reported to 
the credit reference agencies.
Because Mr W wouldnt have been able to begin resuming payments until April 2021, 
it seems to me that Mr Ws account would in all likelihood have reached a position of 
arrears post-November 2020 such that Im satisfied it would almost certainly have 
been the case that the account would have been reasonably defaulted by NewDay at 
some stage.
Because of this, my provisional decision wont include any instruction to NewDay to 
amend Mr Ws credit file here as he would like. And the reason for this is because if I 
did instruct NewDay to rework the account and retrospectively apply the two FCA 
payment holidays to his account which I feel Mr W should have benefited from, I feel 
that the account would still have ultimately defaulted for non-payment. Crucially, this 
default would be at later date than the default already in place, and so would remain 
on Mr Ws credit file for longer than the present default will  which would be to Mr 
Ws detriment.
I can appreciate that Mr W might be disappointed by this aspect of my provisional 
decision. But while I empathise with the difficult position that Mr W has found himself 
in because of Covid-19, it unfortunately isnt the case that Mr W could have received 
ongoing financial assistance and not recovered the financial position of the account 
for such an extended
period of time without the account being reasonable defaulted, for the reasons 
explained above.
However, while I wont be instructing NewDay to rework Mr Ws account here, I do 
feel that NewDay should have recognised the nature of Mr Ws personal circumstances such that they should have provided Mr W with the FCA prescribed 
three-month payment holidays, which I feel would have given Mr W some valuable 
peace of mind during the difficult period that he faced following his leaving hospital.
Mr W has confirmed to this service how difficult he found these months where Im 
satisfied that he should have benefited from this assistance, and I do feel that Mr W 
has unfairly incurred unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result.
Because of this, my provisional decision will be that I am upholding this complaint in 
Mr Ws favour on this limited basis only, and that NewDay must make a payment of 
£400 to Mr W to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
incurred here. In arriving at this amount, Ive considered both the impact of these 
events on Mr W, which as explained took place at a very difficult time for Mr W and 
so had a significant impact on him, as well as the ongoing nature of these events.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Both Mr W and NewDay confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
and so I can confirm that my final decision is that I am upholding this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour on the limited basis explained above.
Putting things right
NewDay must make a payment of £400 to Mr W to compensate him for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman