DRN-3369405
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt 
with a claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021, Miss F collided with a third partys car while reversing from a parking space in 
a local car park. The third party then made a claim. They said their car had been damaged in 
the incident and Miss F was at fault. Miss Fs car didnt require any repairs.
Advantage accepted liability on a 50/50 basis. They reached this conclusion as they said 
based on Miss Fs testimony, it appeared both parties were reversing at the time of the 
collision. So, it was likely both sides were at least partially at fault. The third party didnt 
accept this outcome and said Miss F should take full responsibility. Advantage therefore 
instructed a firm of solicitors to progress the claim. 
Miss F complained to Advantage as she didnt think their liability decision was fair. She said 
the open fault claim had impacted her no claims discount and her insurance premium had 
gone up. So, they should change their mind and say she wasnt at fault. She also said there 
were inconsistencies surrounding the incident that Advantage should take into consideration. 
These include the fact the third party driver was reversing from a space they shouldnt have 
been parked in. She also said the reported gender of the third party driver was incorrect and 
the two cars were of different heights, so she couldnt have caused any damage. She was 
also unhappy Advantage didnt request CCTV footage of the car park before responding to 
the claim.
Advantage apologised for not requesting CCTV footage from the car park but said they didnt 
think it would make a difference based on Miss Fs testimony. It was later confirmed that 
there wasnt a camera in the area in any event. They agreed to continue investigating her 
concerns about the gender of the driver but said this didnt take away from their 
responsibility to respond to the claim. They didnt specifically address her concerns about 
the damage, other than saying they thought theyd acted fairly by offering a 50% settlement 
given the reported circumstances. 
Our investigator thought Advantage had responded to the claim fairly based on the available 
evidence. Miss F disagreed and asked for a final decision. When doing so, she highlighted 
the negative consequences of the fault claim and said it was particularly unfair it remained 
open.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether Advantage have 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with 
the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Advantage and Miss F - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, Advantage can independently decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it. This might mean Advantage makes a decision that Miss F 
disagrees with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor 
insurance policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an 
insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making 
their decision on liability.
Miss Fs testimony indicates that the incident occurred as both sides were reversing. As per 
the Highway Code, both drivers were therefore required to check for any blind spots and 
make sure their manoeuvre was safe. There is also a lack of CCTV footage or independent 
witnesses to help clarify what happened. So, Im satisfied Advantage acted fairly by 
suggesting the claim should be settled on a 50/50 basis. Miss Fs comment about the 
location of the third partys car doesnt change things as she was still required to make sure 
her path was clear before reversing.
I know Miss F has disputed the damage the third party has claimed for. However, they've 
supplied an invoice to support the cost of the works and it doesnt appear excessive. The 
third party also appointed an independent assessor and they concluded the damage was 
consistent with the circumstances of the collision. So, I dont think Advantage acted 
unreasonably by declining to dispute this. Im also unconvinced that Miss Fs comments 
about the gender of the third party driver reasonably changes things as there is little 
evidence to support her belief. Advantage were also required to respond to any claim made 
against Miss F and there is no dispute she was involved in the incident.
Miss F is very unhappy the claim remains open. However, as the third party didnt accept 
Advantages 50/50 settlement offer, liability remains undecided and the claim cant be 
finalised until it has. This isnt unusual, and I havent seen anything which indicates 
Advantage have acted unreasonably in relation to this. The claim wont stay open indefinitely 
however, as if an agreement cant be reached its likely the matter will proceed to court.
I appreciate Miss F wants this claim removed from her records on the grounds that it's false, 
but as she doesnt dispute the fact the incident took place, I dont think Advantage acted 
unreasonably by responding to the claim in the way they have. I also acknowledge her 
disappointment that shes lost her no claims discount. However, the policy terms and 
conditions allow for this in the event of a non-recoverable claim. This is the case here, as 
Amtrust have agreed to settle the matter on a 50/50 basis. The claim is also likely to have 
indicated an increased risk, so I dont think its unusual her premium increased at renewal. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman