DRN-3460045
Complaint
Mr O has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as LiveLend) provided him 
with an unaffordable loan. He says sufficient enough checks werent completed into his 
financial background before the loan was provided.  
Background
LiveLend provided Mr O with a loan of £6,500.00 in September 2020. This loan had an APR 
of 24.6% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £10,799.18 was 
due to be repaid in 60 instalments of just under £180.00.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that LiveLend unfairly provided 
this loan to Mr O as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. LiveLend 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Os complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Os complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did LiveLend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mr O would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did LiveLend act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did LiveLend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
LiveLend provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required LiveLend to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so LiveLend had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr O. In practice this meant that 
LiveLend had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr O undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for LiveLend to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were LiveLends checks reasonable and proportionate?
LiveLend says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr O prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr O declared that he was 
earning just over £2,100.00 a month. This declaration was electronically cross-checked 
against information showing how much Mr Os bank account received each month. And 
LiveLend also took account of Mr Os existing credit commitments, asked him about his 
housing costs and using all of this information determined that Mr O would end up having 
£1,568 in disposable income left over each month. Ive carefully considered what LiveLend has said. But the credit check it carried out showed 
Mr O had a number of settled payday style loans. It would also have been evident from 
LiveLends credit check that Mr Os monthly mortgage payments were for significantly more 
than the amount declared too. All of this leads me to think that LiveLend needed to take 
steps to verify Mr Os actual monthly expenditure. 
After all the monthly disposable income figure arrived at didnt tally with someone with               
Mr Os credit file and his want or need to borrow on these terms. To be clear its not the 
terms of the loan on its own that leads me to think LiveLend needed to do more, its the 
combination of this together with the discrepancies in the information gathered which 
persuades me it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have taken this course of 
action here.
I want to confirm that Ive also seen what LiveLend has said about the outcome reached in 
another unrelated case confirming that its checks were proportionate. But I dont think that it 
is appropriate for me to review the conclusions reached by other casehandlers on 
completely separate and unrelated cases. 
In any event, Ive already explained that LiveLend was required to carry out a borrower 
focused check. And it is the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) together with the type, amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main 
driver in determining whether a check is proportionate. 
So its entirely possible that a proportionate check  for similar or even lower loan amounts - 
could look different depending on the individual circumstances of the prospective borrower. 
And I think that in this case the information LiveLend gathered before agreeing to lend to    
Mr O meant that his application merited further scrutiny.
As I cant see that this LiveLend did take further steps to verify Mr Os expenditure, I dont 
think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr O with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to LiveLend that Mr O would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told LiveLend that Mr O would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
LiveLend was required to establish whether Mr O could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr O was 
struggling under the weight of his commitments. He was borrowing from family, friends and 
other sources in an attempt to try and meet the commitments he had. I also think that further 
checks are more likely than not to have uncovered the real reason for Mr Os financial 
position. And I think its unlikely that LiveLend would have lent to Mr O in these 
circumstances. 
So I think that proportionate checks would have shown LiveLend that Mr O was also likely to 
use this loan for these unsustainable purposes, or to at least cover the hole this left in his finances, which meant he was unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr O would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted LiveLend to the fact that Mr O was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did LiveLend act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that LiveLend acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way. So 
I dont think LiveLend acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way.
Did Mr O lose out as a result of LiveLend unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr O paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what LiveLend did wrong.
So I think that LiveLend needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what LiveLend needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, LiveLend should put things right for Mr O by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr O made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£6,500.00 originally lent. If Mr O has already repaid more than £6,500.00 then 
LiveLend should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr O;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr O to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information LiveLend recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Os credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LiveLend to take off tax from this interest. LiveLend 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind LiveLend of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account and its the case that Mr O is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Chetwood Financial Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman