DRN-4149783
The complaint
Mr R complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr R is represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call F. Where I refer to his submissions, I include 
those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr R has explained that, in March 2006, he and Mrs R were sold a trial membership of a 
timeshare and holiday club, The Diamond Resorts European Collection. Members would buy 
points in the club, which they could exchange for holiday accommodation and other benefits. 
In February 2007 they bought a further 6,200 points with the help of a 10-year loan from 
BPF. That purchase is the subject of a separate complaint. 
In February 2008 Mr and Mrs R bought an additional 7,000 points, again with a 10-year loan 
from BPF. The available documents indicate that they bought the membership points from 
Sunterra Tenerife Sales SL (Sunterra), a Spanish company, and that the loan was provided 
to Mr R.
In April 2019 F complained to BPF on behalf of Mr R. It said that the 2008 purchase 
agreement had been misrepresented and that Mr R therefore had a claim against BPF in the 
same way as it had a claim against the seller. F said too that BPF had not properly assessed 
whether the loan was affordable.
When F referred the matter to this service, it said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs R had been subjected to pressurised sales techniques before they agreed 
to buy the club membership.
They had been misled about the exclusivity, quality and availability of resorts.
There was no market for their membership, so it could not be sold.
The affordability and suitability of the loan had not been properly assessed.
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. F did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. In doing so, it made further lengthy, but generic, submissions.
It said too that the seller had been in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations).
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision, indicating that I was not 
minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary, I concluded:
It was possible that the complaint about the suitability and affordability of the loan was 
brought outside the time limits set out in our rules. Even if that were not the case, I had 
seen no evidence to suggest that the loan was not affordable for Mr R. I noted that it 
had been repaid in March 2014  that is, before the end of the 10-year term. 
If Mr R had a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against Sunterra, it was 
likely he could bring the same claim against BPF. That was the effect of section 75(1) of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980, any claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the seller was likely to be out of time. A limitation defence 
would be available to BPF in the same way as to the seller. It followed that BPFs 
decision to decline the claims under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act was 
reasonable. 
I was not persuaded that a court was likely to find that the loan agreement created an 
unfair relationship between Mr R and BPF. There was little evidence of the pressure Mr 
R had alleged, and he had not explained why he had not withdrawn from the sale and 
loan within the 14 days allowed. 
There was no obligation to disclose any commission paid, unless Mr R had asked about 
it. 
I noted that the 2010 Regulations were not in force at the time of the sale.        
I invited both parties to reply with any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider by 23 May 2023. 
BPF said it had nothing to add. Mr R did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I do 
not believe there is any reason for me to reach a different conclusion from that which I set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. I do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do anything further to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman