DRN-4355548
The complaint
Miss D complains about Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) who declined her claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D said that around two years after she had moved into the property, she noticed a 
damp patch in her home. She contacted a contractor who made some repairs by resealing 
the bath and installing a new shower door. This she believed resolved the issue. 
Sometime later, Miss D contacted Esure and made a claim as she noted that the area had 
become worse. It sent a surveyor to assess the damage. He concluded that the damage was 
due to poor workmanship and wear and tear. And as they were specific exclusions to her 
policy, Esure declined her claim. 
Miss D then contacted an independent contractor. After a previous initial trace and access 
that he conducted, he removed her bath and noticed that the floorboards had rotted. He 
concluded that the damage caused to her bathroom was due to a burst pipe, that had 
caused a leak. He was unable to re-install the bath due to the damage to the floorboards.
Miss D contacted Esure to make a complaint. She believed that its surveyor had erroneously 
declined the claim, given the conclusion of her contractor, that the damage was caused by a 
leak. Further, that her and her family had been severely inconvenienced as they had been 
without bathing facilities for several weeks. In its final response, Esure gave Miss D her 
referral rights but didnt address her complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that he was more persuaded by Miss Ds contractors report. In that, he felt that the report 
was more detailed than that of Esures surveyor. It outlined the cause of damage as a burst 
pipe, which Esures surveyor didnt pick up upon. He said that Esures surveyor had 
mentioned that the damage was caused due to failed sealant, but there was no evidence to 
support this. He said Esures surveyor mentioned poor workmanship as a further reason to 
decline, without explaining what amounted to poor workmanship. So, he recommended that 
Esure accept the claim and pay Miss D £600 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Miss D accepted the view, Esure did not. It said that it believed that its surveyors report was 
more persuasive than Miss Ds contractors report. It relied upon a senior technician who had 
commented on the report who concluded that the damaged caused wasnt due to a one-off 
leak. And it had been a leak that had occurred overtime, which wasnt covered under the 
policy. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments made by both parties. And having done so, I 
think the main issues of this complaint are whether Esure was fair to decline the claim under 
the policy exclusions, namely poor workmanship and wear and tear. 
Miss D said that Esures surveyor was wrong to conclude that the damage caused was due 
to poor workmanship and wear and tear. 
Esure s surveyor had also concluded that the cause of the damage was as a result of failed 
sealant/grout. And the source of the leak was from the shower.
So, Miss D instructed her own contractor who wrote a report and concluded that the cause of 
the damage was due to a burst pipe under the bath. And when he removed the bath, he 
found that the floor and joists had rotted, again due to the leak. 
I have reviewed both reports, the accompanying recordings made by Esures surveyor and 
the photos of the area. 
Esures surveyors report states that the damage was due to failed sealant/grout. And 
appears to suggest that the failure was in two areas first the bath and second the shower. 
Yet, there is no explanation or further information about how, when, and why the sealant 
failed. There is no information about damage caused by the shower, which I wouldve 
expected as the report states that the source of the leak was the shower.
The accompanying photographs of the damage dont appear to support that the shower was 
the source of the leak. Nor do they show that it was failed sealant that caused the damage.  
Further, there is no detail within the recordings made on site. There is mention that a 
contractor had attended and removed a bath panel and noticed loose pipes. But no mention 
from the surveyor whether he carried out an inspection of the pipes. No mention of any 
investigations he carried out to see whether the loose pipes were actually a burst pipe, as 
Miss Ds contractor later found. 
Miss Ds contractor initially found that under the bath was a burst pipe, which he made safe. 
After he had removed the bath, he found that the cause of the damage was a leak, that had 
come from the burst pipe. He also said that as the floor was tiled, it wouldnt have been 
possible for Miss D to have noticed the leak. 
Ive next considered the issue of poor workmanship. It is clear that Miss Ds contractor hasnt 
concluded that this contributed to the damage. Although its right that Esures surveyor 
mentioned that poor workmanship contributed to the damage caused, there is no 
explanation as to what evidence or investigations he undertook, that supported his 
conclusion that poor workmanship was partly to blame. And I dont think its enough to 
simply mention poor workmanship, without substantiating it. 
Overall, I found Esures surveyors recordings, and the report lacking in detail and not as 
thorough as I wouldve expected. Conversely, I found that Miss Ds contractor had carried out a more thorough inspection, given that he initially located and made safe the burst pipe 
(which doesnt appear to have been checked/investigated by Esure) and then removed the 
bath, for a more intensive inspection. 
I acknowledge that Esure believe that Miss D ought to have been aware of the damage 
much sooner and perhaps mitigate her loss. It relied upon its senior technician who said: 
The emailed images show the subfloor is heavy rotten and walls are heavily saturated. I find 
it doubtful ph would have been unaware of the leak for this long, if t & a was done sooner the 
damage would not have been as severe. Ive looked into this further and I dont agree, so Ill 
explain why. 
Esure was aware (and Miss D confirms) that the bathroom was fully tiled (floor and walls). 
Miss Ds contractor noted that the location of the bathroom was on the ground floor and as it 
was fully tiled, it wouldve been impossible for Miss D to have noticed anything untoward. 
Certainly, Esures surveyor didnt notice the issue with the pipes and Miss Ds contractor 
only found the source of the leak once the bath had been removed. 
Further, although Miss D explained that she had, a patch issue in the past, she believed it 
had been resolved with the repairs that were carried out. Consequently, I dont think Esure 
where fair or reasonable to have declined Miss Ds claim. 
In addition, Ive considered the impact of Esures error on Miss D. She explained that the 
whole incident has caused considerable distress, upset and worry. She said that she had 
been without bathing facilities for several months, which has caused significant disruption for 
her and her young family. Im satisfied that had Esure carried out a more thorough 
investigation and dealt with Miss Ds claim as I think it ought to have, then the inconvenience 
that Im satisfied Miss D suffered as a result, couldve been avoided. Consequently, I think 
Esure ought to pay Miss D compensation of £600, for the trouble and upset caused. Which I 
think is fair and in line with our guidelines on compensation. 
Putting things right
Taking all of the circumstances into consideration, and to put matters right, I direct Esure as I 
set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
To put matters right, Esure Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim. 
To pay Miss D £600 compensation, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman