DRN-4253578
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) service in connection with 
a claim he made on his mobility scooter insurance policy. 
Mr S has been dealing with a company who administer the policy on Ageas behalf. But 
since Ageas provides the insurance cover, it remains responsible for the decisions and 
actions concerning how the policy operates, regardless of who takes those decisions or 
actions. So I will refer to all those things as being done by Ageas. 
What happened
Mr S has an insurance policy for his mobility scooter which started on 9 June 2022. The 
policy provides cover for unforeseen costs around the use of a mobility scooter or 
wheelchair. 
In October 2022 Mr S drove over a pothole and the rear frame of his scooter snapped, which 
also damaged the transaxle. Mr S reported the accident to his insurer and they told him to 
look for a local repair garage which he did. 
The garage gave Mr S a quote for the repair which was accepted by Ageas. Unfortunately, 
despite ordering the relevant part for the repair, the garage said there were delays in 
receiving it. And so Mr S was without his scooter for that period, which amounted to around 
four months at the time. 
Mr S says he told Ageas about the delays with the garage and so it paid him for the cost of 
the repair to enable him to get it repaired elsewhere. Mr S wasnt happy with this and wants 
Ageas to write his scooter off so he can purchase a new one. He says he took out the policy 
to give him peace of mind but the situation has caused him substantial stress. Mr S has 
explained how he relies on the scooter to get around and give him independence. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the service he received from Ageas and so he complained. Ageas 
said it logged the claim on 10 October 2022 and asked Mr S to provide a cause of damage 
report together with a quote for the repairs. Ageas said it received this information and 
authorised the repairs on 25 October 2022. Ageas said the repair couldnt be completed 
since the part was unavailable until March 2023, but this was outside its control. Ageas paid 
Mr S a cash settlement in order for him to have the repairs completed elsewhere. And so the 
complaint wasnt accepted. 
Mr S wasnt happy. He said since the part wasnt available he should have been provided 
with a cash settlement for the scooter, at market value, so he could replace it, since it cant 
be repaired. Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. He said the relevant part had been ordered and 
there was a delay in it being received, but that he couldnt reasonably hold Ageas 
responsible for the delay. Ageas offered a cash settlement in lieu of repairs which was within 
the terms of the policy. And so the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr S didnt accept the 
investigators conclusion, so the matter was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision 
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
First I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I dont doubt the 
disruption and upset he would have suffered without having access to his scooter. Its clear 
this matter has caused significant distress and inconvenience for him. I understand Mr S has 
strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the situation. I have read 
and considered everything I have received carefully. 
I can see that Mr S relies on his scooter to get around and so I can see why hed want such 
issues sorted out as quickly as possible. Unfortunately this isnt what happened.
Hire costs 
Ageas offered Mr S £5 per day towards the cost of hiring a replacement scooter while his 
was being replaced, up to a limit of £100. Mr S says this amount wasnt enough for him to 
hire a scooter. And while I can understand why he wasnt happy with this it is what is 
stipulated under the terms of the policy. So I cant say Ageas did anything wrong here. 
Repair to scooter 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. And Ive 
thought about whether Ageas acted in line with this. And I dont think it has. The scooter was 
collected towards the end of October and it was aware there were significant delays in 
obtaining the relevant part. I think Ageas should also have been aware of the fact that Mr S 
likely relied on his mobility scooter in his day-to-day life. And so when it was clear the delays 
with the part were ongoing it should have reconsidered whether waiting for the repair, or 
paying Mr S a cash settlement, was reasonable given Mr S particular circumstances. And 
whilst the delays werent directly in Ageas control it was aware of them, and the issues 
caused as a consequence.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and acted fairly and reasonably. So my starting point is 
the policy. The cover provides insurance for, costs to repair accidental damage to your 
scooter or wheelchair that was caused by an insured event. And where the cost to repair 
the scooter is over 70% of the value of a new scooter, Ageas will, replace your scooter or 
wheelchair with a new one of similar make and model oroffer to pay the cash amount 
representing the market price for a new scooter, unless the scooter is more than two years 
old at the time of the claim. 
When Mr S reported his claim Ageas asked him to obtain a quote for the repairs, which it 
then approved. I have considered the written records between the parties which show how 
the repairer was attempting to obtain the relevant part but was aware there was a shortage 
as a result of the pandemic. 
Mr S has been waiting so long for his scooter to be repaired and given the circumstances, 
Im not satisfied that Ageas continued decision to repair it is fair.  And so in this case I would 
expect Ageas to take some further action; either by paying for bespoke parts to be made, or 
to consider writing the scooter off.
As explained above Ageas should settle claims promptly and fairly, and I dont think it has 
done so here. I will discuss what this means for Mr S below. Cash in lieu of repair 
I can understand Mr S feels frustrated by the delay in the repairs to his mobility scooter. Up 
to the point he brought his complaint to us he has been given a number of estimated 
completion dates. This is unfortunate. I can see the repairer has chased the manufacturer for 
updates as to when the part might be delivered. 
The delays here were caused because the part was unavailable, and Im satisfied the 
repairer made reasonable efforts to get the part, and Mr S was kept updated. But I think the 
time taken started to become unreasonable. The accident occurred in October and by the 
following May the part was still not available. So Ageas paid Mr S the cost of the repair  a 
cash settlement. 
Whilst this is standard practice in insurance claims I have considered whether it was 
reasonable taking into account Mr S circumstances, and I dont think it was. The repairer 
has explained there was a shortage of that part as a result of the pandemic, and so it was 
likely that wherever Mr S took his scooter to be repaired he would have had the same issue. 
And I dont think thats fair. 
To resolve Mr S complaint I think it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas to take the 
further option provided by the policy of declaring the scooter a total loss. And it should make 
Mr S a payment of the scooters pre-accident value, less the policy excess. This would allow 
Mr S to replace his scooter. 
Mr S has explained he took the insurance out to give him peace of mind, so that he could 
ensure he was able to keep moving. Mr S says he has been trapped in his home without his 
scooter since the accident in October 2022. He says his quality of life has reduced and he 
has to rely on friends and neighbours for help with shopping. Mr S says he has had to use 
taxis and hospital transport to get around. And he has been unable to go to his local park for 
some fresh air. Mr S has mobility issues is has difficulty standing and walking. 
I am taking into account the fact that Mr S is a vulnerable person and it was difficult for him 
to arrange the repairs himself in the first instance, let alone trying to find another repairer 
after the passage of time. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has raised any additional points or queried my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mr S or Ageas had anything to add to the findings set out in 
my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision) Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
Had Ageas dealt with the claim promptly and fairly in the first instance I dont think Mr S 
would have needed to continue to engage with Ageas and ourselves in an attempt to satisfy 
himself his claim had been dealt with fairly and correctly. Im satisfied this has taken time and effort from Mr S, and I dont doubt it would have been stressful and upsetting during that 
process. 
I require Ageas to write off Mr Ss scooter and replace it with one of a similar make or model 
or offer to pay the cash amount representing the market price for the scooter, as per the 
terms of his policy, less the applicable policy excess. 
Ageas should pay Mr S £850 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is broadly in line with the awards which 
we make for trouble and upset as set out on our website. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman