DRN-3447970
The complaint
Mr B and his wife Miss M complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled a
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Acromas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Acromas
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr B had a luxury sports utility vehicle with a British registration and with right-hand drive.
For the year from early February 2019, Mr B had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive
policy with Acromas. He was the policyholder. The policy covered his wife to drive the
vehicle. Any claim for damage was subject to a policy excess.
In late March 2019, Mr B and his wife had taken the vehicle to France. He reported that 
while they were stationary in his vehicle  a low-loader lorry had scraped down the
passenger side of his vehicle.
Acromas repaired Mr Bs vehicle and he had to pay the policy excess.
In September 2019, Acromas wrote a letter to Mr B. It said that it considered that the claim
would be best settled with both parties accepting partial liability.
Mr B made a complaint to Acromas (which I will refer to as his previous complaint) about
lack of progress and poor communication. Acromas wrote a final response letter dated 29
December 2019. It said it was paying Mr B £50.00 for failing to return a call. It said that the
most probable outcome of the claim was that liability would be shared 50/50. Mr B brought
his previous complaint to us.
One of my colleagues wrote a final decision in January 2021 about service up to 29
December 2019. She directed Acromas to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
She said that If Mr B wanted to complain about service after that date, a new complaint
needed to be made to Acromas. She said that, as the claim hadnt been settled at the time of
Acromas response to his complaint, she couldnt consider its decision on liability.
In March 2021, Mr B complained to Acromas that it had told him that - because the lorry
driver denied any knowledge of the reported incident - it had closed Mr Bs claim in
November 2020 as a fault claim against him. I will refer to that as his current complaint.
By a letter dated early March 2021, Acromas told Mr B of his right to bring his current
complaint to us  which he did in early May 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said that  despite
reminders  Acromas hadnt sent us any information. He thought that there was no evidence
that Acromas did anything to investigate who was at fault for the incident. So he
recommended that Acromas should:
1. update the way the claim is recorded on the insurance database to reflect that Mr B 
wasnt at fault; and
2. reimburse Mr Bs policy excess of £500.00; and
3. pay Mr B £200.00 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
continued poor service since the final decision on the previous complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and Miss M and to Acromas on 28 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that Acromas did a reasonable and proportionate investigation into 
the question of liability for the accident. So I considered that Acromas deprived itself 
of the opportunity of recovering its outlay in full from the third party. And I wasnt 
satisfied that Acromas treated Mr B fairly by recording a fault claim against him.
I found it more likely than not that Acromas caused Mr B a financial loss of £550.00 in 
respect of the policy excess. I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Acromas to reimburse Mr B that amount. As he will have been out of pocket, I was  
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to add interest at our usual 
rate since the date of the accident.
In addition to the policy excess, I was minded that Acromas had caused Mr B 
distress and inconvenience. Since the investigators view, Acromas had made things 
worse by its continued lack of response. For about a year since March 2021, 
Acromas has caused Mr B a feeling that Acromas was ignoring him  and more 
recently the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Subject to any further information from Mr B and Miss M or from Acromas, my provisional 
decision was to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr B saying that it unfairly recorded the claim from late March 2019 
as a fault claim against him, and that it has removed the fault claim from its records 
and from any external database on which it had recorded that claim; and
2. reimburse Mr B the policy excess of £550.00; and
3. pay Mr B simple interest on £550.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 26 March 2019 
until the date of reimbursement. If Acromas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
4. pay Mr B and Miss M (jointly) £350.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B and Miss M say they have no further information to add in response to the provisional 
decision.Acromas hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information we hold on the previous complaint to see if it is relevant to the
current complaint.
When a policyholder has made a claim and an insurance company has made an outlay (for
example to repair its policyholders vehicle), its common for that insurance company to treat
the claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until the insurance company
recovers its outlay in full (typically from a third partys insurance company).
So a fault claim doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was responsible for causing the
accident.
Where the insurance company agrees with a third partys insurance company that liability is
split (for example 50/50) between its policyholder and the third party, then each insurance
company will recover only part (for example 50%) of its outlay.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term giving the insurance company the right to
control of any claim against a third party. The effect of such a term is that  on a question of
liability  the insurance companys view will prevail over its policyholders view. The Financial
Ombudsman Service may consider whether an insurance company has applied such a term
fairly.
From Mr As policy schedule, I see that the total of compulsory and voluntary excesses was
£550.00. So I find it likely that Mr B paid that amount but mis-remembered it as £500.00.
Ive thought about what I would expect from Acromas in a reasonable investigation of the
claim.
I would expect Acromas to consider the statements of Mr B and Miss M. I would also expect
Acromas to consider the nature and location of the damage to Mr Bs vehicle  and whether
it was consistent with the statements.
Faced with a denial that the low-loader was involved in the accident I would expect Acromas
to ask where it was based, and to ask for evidence of its location at the time of the accident.
I would also expect Acromas to obtain and share with Mr A a full explanation of the relevant
traffic signs and rules applying to the accident.
I would also expect that after Mr B made his current complaint, Acromas would send a final
response giving reasons for its conclusion that the complaint had been resolved.
I would also expect Acromas to cooperate with our investigation.
In the absence  despite reminders - of any response from Acromas, Im not satisfied that
Acromas did a reasonable and proportionate investigation into the question of liability for the
accident. So I consider that Acromas deprived itself of the opportunity of recovering its outlay
in full from the third party. And Im not satisfied that Acromas treated Mr B fairly by recording
a fault claim against him.
We dont assess compensation at a level to punish or deter shortcomings by regulatedfinancial firms. Rather we look to compensate the impact on the complainant. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about how to try to put things right between Mr B and Acromas at this stage.
I find it more likely than not that Acromas caused Mr B a financial loss of £550.00 in respect
of the policy excess. I find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to reimburse Mr B that 
amount. As he will have been out of pocket, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to 
add interest at our usual rate since the date of the accident.
Mr B had a protected no-claims discount. He hasnt been able to show that the fault claim
caused him to pay an identifiable amount more for insurance than if the claim had been a
no-fault claim. So Im not persuaded that Acromas caused him a financial loss in that
respect.
However, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to write a letter to Mr B (which he 
may show to current or future insurers) saying that it unfairly recorded the claim from late 
March 2019 as a fault claim against him, and that it has removed the fault claim from its 
records and from any external database on which it had recorded it.
In addition to the policy excess, I find that Acromas has caused Mr B distress and
inconvenience. Since the investigators view, Acromas has made things worse by its
continued lack of response. For about a year since March 2021, Acromas has caused Mr B
a feeling that Acromas was ignoring him  and more recently the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
Mr A has had to keep contacting us while we afforded Acromas plenty of time to respond. In
the usual course of things, I find it likely that Miss M has had a shared experience of Mr Bs
frustration.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to pay Mr B and jointly Miss M £350.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mr B saying that it unfairly recorded the claim from late March 2019 
as a fault claim against him, and that it has removed the fault claim from its records 
and from any external database on which it had recorded that claim; and
2. reimburse Mr B the policy excess of £550.00; and
3. pay Mr B simple interest on £550.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 26 March 2019 
until the date of reimbursement. If Acromas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
4. pay Mr B and Miss M (jointly) £350.00 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman