DRN-3265130
The complaint
Mr H complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) has unfairly 
declined a claim hes made on a pet insurance policy
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our Investigator, so Ive provided a summary.
Mr H owns two dogs. Dog A is insured under a pet insurance policy underwritten by 
CGI. Dog B is insured elsewhere.
Dog A was attacked by Dog B and had to have veterinary treatment to address the 
injuries. Mr H made a claim on his policy to cover the vets bills but CGI declined it so 
Mr H complained.
CGI responded to say the claim was declined as Mr H had failed to provide proper 
care and attention to Dog A, which was required by the policy.
Our Investigator didnt think CGI had applied the exclusion fairly. He also addressed 
some new arguments from CGI giving additional reasons why it declined the claim  
which seemingly hadnt been shared with Mr H previously. He concluded CGI should 
reconsider the claim, pay 8% on any claim related payments Mr H had already paid 
and pay him £50 for the inconvenience it had caused him
CGI responded, stating the claim wasnt a claim for vet fees, but instead a claim 
relating to third party liability so a different exclusion applied and the claim was still 
declined.  
Our Investigator pointed out the exclusion CGI now seemed to be relying on only 
applied if Dog A was the one which caused the injury to another dog  and that 
wasnt the case here. And so CGIs comments didnt change his mind.
CGI asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered by the policy. When an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline the 
claim, the onus is on the insurer to show that exclusion applies.
Ill be assessing this complaint in the light of this, while keeping in mind what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable
The original decline reason 
In its final response to Mr Hs complaint, CGI refers to the following policy exclusion:
We will not pay claims for any of the following reasons:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage
It says as Dog A was attacked by Dog B in Mr Hs home, that indicated Dog A wasnt 
provided with Mr Hs full attention at the time. And because of that, it says this exclusion 
applies.
This exclusion seems to me to be contingent on Mr H not having taken reasonable 
precautions to avoid the injury to Dog A. So, Ive gone on to think about the foreseeability of 
the attack by Dog B and the consequent injury to Dog A.
From Mr Hs testimony, he explains the dogs have lived with each other for seven years, 
since Dog A was introduced to the household, so theyve grown up together. He says 
theyve always got on well and love each other to bits. He goes on to explain that he would 
never have imagined the attack happening. Also, Ive not been given any evidence to show 
there were any previous incidences of aggression. 
Given what Ive said above, it doesnt seem to me the incident would have been reasonably 
foreseeable so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr H to leave his dogs together in his 
house for a period of time as he did, particularly as his partner was present too. It follows, 
Im not persuaded CGI has done enough to show Mr H failed to provide proper care and 
attention to Dog A or failed to take reasonable precautions as it says in its final response.
Ive then gone on to consider the additional arguments CGI made, after the final response, to 
decline the claim 
Clinical history/Previous episodes of aggression 
In its submissions to this Service CGI says it wasnt in receipt of Dog Bs clinical history. It 
also said it had received no confirmation from Mr H there had been no previous aggression 
between the two dogs. 
But I cant see what relevance this has as Ive not been given any evidence it ever asked for 
either of these pieces of information. Nor has it quoted them in its final response as 
contributory reasons for its decline of the claim. So, this doesnt change my mind and I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for it to rely on this exclusion in this claim.
Third party liability
The next argument CGI employed was to say the claim should have been made as a third-
party liability claim not a vet fee claim. It quoted the third-party liability wording in the policy:
Third Party Liability
What is insured?
This section of Your Policy provides cover for damages and legal costs where You 
are found liable in the event Your dog causes death, injury or property damageThe wording above clearly explains this element of cover is in place for instances where the 
named pet causes death, injury or property damage. And thats simply not the case here  
the insured dog, Dog A, didnt cause the injury; it was the one who was injured.
So, Im satisfied this clause isnt relevant to the circumstances of this complaint, and it 
cannot fairly rely on this term to decline the claim.
CGI has also said it doesnt provide cover for dog on dog attacks but hasnt explained 
where in the policy this is detailed. And having reviewed the policy terms, I can find no 
reference to it either. 
Other arguments raised by CGI
Then CGI provided some further arguments, which I will deal with briefly. In general, it 
seems to have some concerns about what it sees as inconsistencies in the claim but Ive 
seen nothing to show its investigated these with Mr H or given him the opportunity to 
respond to them.
CGI says the vets notes dont state the injuries were as a result of a dog attack by another 
dog owned by Mr H. But from the evidence available, Im satisfied this is what Mr H told the 
vet and theres nothing to show the vet disagreed with or questioned this.
CGI thinks the injuries are more severe than it would expect given the consumers testimony 
that the attack was stopped quickly. I note CGI didnt seek the vets guidance on this issue 
even though it phoned the surgery to query other aspects of the claim. And Ive borne in 
mind here that, on average, Dog Bs breed is 10 times bigger than Dog As so it seems to 
me likely severe injuries could be inflicted rapidly and with ease.
I accept theres a small discrepancy around the exact time the attack was said to have taken 
place. But Im satisfied this isnt material to the outcome of the claim.
CGI has suggested a theoretical scenario where Mr Hs dog was instead attacked by a third-
party dog and what would happen around that insurer attempting recovery. But that didnt 
happen so I dont consider it relevant to this complaint.
CGI repeated its view that its policy didnt cover injuries caused by another dog owned by 
Mr H but Ive already detailed my views on this above.
In summary, Im not persuaded that CGI has done enough to show that the exclusion it 
relied on to decline the claim applied. Nor any of the exclusions or reasons it has mentioned 
since. It follows I think it unfairly declined the claim and now needs to do more.
Putting things right
CGI needs to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. However, it cannot 
rely on any of the exclusions that it has raised to date and which have been discussed within 
this decision. 
If it requires further information from Mr H to do this, it should cover the cost of this subject to 
him providing appropriate receipts. It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on any claim 
payment Mr H has already paid and pay him £50 for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused him.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remining policy terms, not already dealt with in 
this decision.
Cover the cost of Mr H providing any further remaining it requests to investigate the 
claim, subject to him proving appropriate receipts.
Pay 8% interest simple per annum on any claim payment made by Mr H from the 
date of the claim/the date Mr H has settled any costs himself (whichever is latest) to 
the date it makes any settlement payment.*
Pay Mr H £50 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman