DRN-2228207
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Limited administered his 
commercial motor insurance policy. He wants reimbursement of the premium instalments he 
paid whilst his car wasnt in use. 
What happened
Mr N took out a policy through Acorn and told it he had seven years No Clams Bonus (NCB). 
Acorn asked Mr N for proof of his NCB, but Mr N unfortunately had an accident before this 
was provided. Acorn said it couldnt accept Mr Ns NCB proof because for two years the 
policy wasnt in his name. Mr Ns premium increased as a result. Mr N thought he should 
have been told this when he took out the policy.  
Mr N said he then cancelled the policy as he wasnt using the car, but Acorn continued to 
take payments. Acorn said Mr N hadnt cancelled it then. But it later cancelled the policy 
when Mr N missed a payment. It also said that because a claim had been made and the 
insurer had settled this as fault, Mr N must pay his remaining premium for the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt evidence that Mr N had cancelled the policy. She thought Acorn had taken payments 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. She thought Mr N hadnt explained to Acorn 
when he took out his policy that two years NCB were earned on someone elses policy. 
Mr N replied that he had made Acorn aware that the NCB was earned on a hire car. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N said he told Acorn that he wanted to cancel his policy following the incident. Ive looked 
at Acorns records and listened to Mr Ns calls, and I cant see that he asked to cancel his 
policy. In a call, made a month after the incident he checked what his monthly direct debits 
were. And in each call, Acorn confirmed that the policy was still live. So I havent seen 
evidence that Mr N asked to cancel his policy and so I cant see that Acorn made an error in 
continuing to collect his premiums. 
Acorn told Mr N that if he had proof that his car was SORN following the accident, then it 
would ask the insurer to consider backdating the cancellation. I think that was fair and 
reasonable at the time. 
But then the incident was settled as fault against Mr N. In that case, and in keeping with 
Acorns Terms of Business, any cancellation would mean that Mr N would have to pay the 
remainder of the years premium. I think this is standard industry practice as Mr N had made 
use of the policy. So I cant say that its unfair for Acorn to request this payment of the 
outstanding balance. But, given the amount, I think Acorn should discuss making a 
repayment by instalments arrangement with Mr N. 
Mr N was also unhappy that his premiums increased due to Acorn not accepting his seven 
years NCB. Mr N said he told Acorn that two of his seven years NCB was earned on a hire 
car with another company and he was told that was OK. 
Ive listened to Mr Ns calls with Acorn. In the inception call, the agent asked Mr N to confirm 
that he had seven years NCB earned on a private hire vehicle in his own name in the UK. I 
think the advisor understood that Mr N had two years NCB for a hire car with another 
company. But Mr N didnt add that this policy wasnt in his own name, as is often the case for 
sole trader taxi drivers. So I cant say it was wrong for Acorn not to question this further.
Later, Mr N said his seven years was earned through Acorn. Acorn said it had no records of 
this, but I can see that Mr N had five years NCB earned through Acorn previously. Mr N said 
hed been told he could use the two years NCB gained from a hire company without a 
certificate. But Acorn said it wouldnt accept this without an NCB certificate. It said the five 
years NCB would have expired unless Mr N had used the NCB elsewhere in the meantime. 
So it said Mr Ns NCB would reduce to zero years unless he was able to provide a 
certificate, and Mr Ns premium would then increase. 
Mr N then sent documents related to the hire to Acorn. But I cant see that these provide 
evidence that NCB years were earned during the two years hire period. And so I cant say 
that it was unreasonable for Acorn to ask for the additional premium that resulted from 
reducing Mr Ns NCB. 
So I dont think Acorn made a mistake when it provided Mr N with a policy based on seven 
years NCB. This is what hed told it and I dont think it had reason at the time to question 
this. I think Acorn didnt mislead Mr N about his NCB years, though Mr N evidently 
misunderstood his entitlement. I think Acorn then gave Mr N time to send in the proof of 
NCB. But this was unfortunately not received before the accident. So, again unfortunately, 
as the policy had been used, Mr N wasnt able to cancel the policy without paying the 
remainder of his premium. I dont require Acorn to give Mr N any refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman