DRN-3136547
The complaint
Mr M complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who declined a 
claim under his commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms commercial property became damaged due to a burst pipe. He contacted RSA who 
sent a surveyor to assess the damage. He rejected the claim on behalf of RSA as he 
concluded that Mr M wasnt covered for an escape of water under the policy. 
Mr M complained to RSA who confirmed that the claim was correctly declined. He disputed 
this, as he believed that his policy covered an escape of water. In its final response, RSA 
said that it had declined the claim as per the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr Ms policy 
had restrictions due to it being unoccupied and those restrictions meant there was a limit on 
cover, and this didnt extend cover for any escape of water. 
But RSA accepted that it had failed to identify the restriction on his policy, before instructing 
the surveyor. For this it offered £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that RSA had correctly and fairly declined the claim. That although the policy appeared 
to cover an escape of water, there had been a mid-term change (from occupied to 
unoccupied status) to the policy which meant that an escape of water was no longer 
covered. She noted that RSA had made Mr Ms broker aware of the restriction and that Mr M 
had been aware of the mid-term change. She didnt think RSA had unreasonably declined 
the claim. 
RSA accepted the view Mr M did not. He said he was covered under the policy. That he 
hadnt been provided with any evidence of RSA having varied the terms of his policy with his 
broker. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr M will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this 
is fair.  
Mr M had a commercial property insurance with RSA, that became damaged due to an 
escape of water. He believed that his policy covered this peril, only for RSA to decline the 
claim, as the escape of water wasnt covered under his policy terms and conditions. 
I have considered the policy term and conditions.  It said initially that: 
In respect of Buildings and Rent:
 Event 1 (Fire, smoke, lightning, explosion and earthquake): Nil
 Event 4 (Escape of water or oil): £350
 Event 8 (Subsidence): £1,000
 Damage other than Events 1, 4 and 8: £250
So, it appeared as if the escape of water was covered. However, this is then qualified by the 
following warnings and clauses:
It is essential that you read all of the clauses applying to your policy as these contain 
important information that is specific to your policy and will affect your policy 
cover.EXC004 - Restriction to Event 1Operative Events is restricted to Event 1 - Fire, 
smoke, lightning, explosion and earthquake.
Consequently, I think its clear from the policy schedule, that the only perils that are covered 
are fire, smoke, lighting, explosion and earthquake, which are listed. An escape of water is 
not listed, and RSA confirmed that this peril, wasnt covered. 
Mr M confirmed that he was aware of a mid-term adjustment to his policy. But didnt recall 
seeing any evidence of an exchange between RSA and his broker about the mid-term 
adjustment. 
Ive asked RSA if it can share details about the exchange it had with Mr Ms broker. It said 
that it was unable to do this due to data protection and without Mr M making a subject 
access request. I understand that Mr M has now done this and hopefully will be able to see 
the exchange RSA had with his broker. 
However, RSA did provide me with evidence of its exchange with Mr Ms broker. These 
confirmed that when the mid-term adjustment was made (the adjustment related to the 
property becoming unoccupied) RSA advised the broker of the restriction on the policy. The 
restriction meant that any escape of water would no longer be covered. 
On renewal of the policy, RSA enquired if the property was still unoccupied and Mr Ms 
broker confirmed this. RSA offered cover but advised that the restriction was still in place as 
the property remained empty. Mr Ms broker said that this information would be passed on to 
Mr M. 
Mr M said that he hasnt received any evidence of this exchange but does accept that a mid-
term amendment occurred. As the midterm change was made by Mr Ms broker, Mr M might 
wish to raise a complaint with them, if he feels that the consequences of the unoccupancy 
restriction wasnt explained. But Im satisfied that the policy schedule outlined the restrictions 
of cover and I dont think RSA were unreasonable to decline the claim. 
Finally, I have considered whether RSA had investigated Mr Ms claim, as he complained 
that it did. I asked RSA about this and it confirmed that there was no investigation of his 
claim but there were the normal case handling procedures followed. 
Where the mistake arose was that it failed to identify the restriction on Mr Ms policy before 
instructing the surveyor and it asked Mr M to obtain further information. For this error, it 
offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation as RSA recognised the trouble and upset Mr M had 
suffered. Accordingly, I wont be asking RSA to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the offer of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman