DRN-2730538
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs C has told us that the credit card and PPI were sold during a meeting. She has also said 
that Lloyds didnt give her any advice about the insurance. But, as Lloyds cant be sure 
about this, to be fair to Mrs C Ive decided her complaint on the basis that it did recommend 
the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs C disagreed, 
the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Mrs C says that the PPI was added without her knowledge. Because of the time that has 
passed, Lloyds no longer has any of the paperwork signed by Mrs C. But it has sent us a 
sample of the credit card application form that was in use at the time. This has a section 
in it dealing with PPI which says that Lloyds strongly recommends the insurance is taken 
out. I find this makes it clear that the policy was optional. There is also a box which has to 
be ticked to request the policy. As the PPI was added to Mrs Cs account Im satisfied that 
this box was ticked. Although Lloyds representative may have filled in the form for her, I 
think its likely they would have done so after discussing Mrs Cs requirements with her. 
And Im satisfied that Mrs C would have had the opportunity to review the completed form 
before signing it. And she could then have queried why the box was ticked if she hadnt 
wanted the insurance.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs C it had to use reasonable endeavours to ensure 
that the it was right for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time and 
the terms of the policy, I think that it was. I say this because:
oMrs C was eligible for the PPI;
oMrs C had had a medical condition, (the condition), for which she had had an 
operation some 12 years before the PPI sale. The terms of the policy were such that 
she may not have been able to claim for any time off work because of the condition. 
From what Mrs C has told us about the condition and the operation, Im satisfied that 
the condition couldnt have reoccurred after the operation. However, its possible that 
she may have had to be off work because of something arising from the operation 
itself. Its possible that this might also not have been covered by the PPI. I dont know 
what Lloyds told Mrs C about these possible limitations in her cover. Mrs C has told 
us that the once she had recovered from the operation she didnt have any day to 
day problems relating to it or the condition, but only had annual check-ups with her 
GP. So, particularly considering the time that had passed, had Lloyds pointed them 
out, I dont think that she would have felt these limitations made the policy unsuitable 
for her and stopped her buying it.
From what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances, she wasnt adversely affected by 
any of the policys other main restrictions or limitations  such as those affecting 
someone who was self-employed.
oFollowing a successful claim for sickness, injury or involuntary unemployment, the 
PPI would have paid 10% of Mrs Cs credit card balance a month. These payments 
would have been made for up to 12 months. So, as Mrs C has told us that she wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay from her employer and didnt have any other insurance or 
savings that could have helped her meet her monthly credit card payments                                                                                                                        
, I find that the policy could have been of use to her;
oThe policy cost 72p for each £100 outstanding on Mrs Cs credit card account. This 
was a competitive price by reference to other similar policies available at the time. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for 
Mrs C. In any event, had she later felt that she couldnt afford the policy or no longer 
wanted it, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, as it was paid 
for monthly;
Its likely the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. For instance, that she would have had to continue paying the premiums during a 
claim, making the benefits less valuable than Mrs C might have expected. But she chose to 
take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover;
This means that Mrs C hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong in 
Lloyds sales process. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive explained, Ive considered everything Mrs C has told us, including that she was on 
medication as a result of the effects of the operation. She says that this medication could 
have given rise to other medical problems. But as these problems wouldnt have been the 
same as the condition I find that they wouldnt have been caught by the limitations in her 
cover, to which Ive referred earlier. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman