DRN-3575876
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by TSB Bank PLC (TSB) which is now part of 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. He says that TSB did give some 
information about the transfer but glossed over the negative aspects and made it seem 
like it was the right thing to do. This has not turned out to be the case.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr D says he met with a TSB adviser when he was doing some general banking in a branch of 
Lloyds. He says that he met the adviser again, also in the branch, some months later to discuss 
his pension and retirement needs. I understand that Mr D had recently been made redundant 
from the business that his DB scheme was with. And he says hed also had a serious accident. 
Because of these two things he was finding it difficult to find work. Mr D says he didnt return to 
work at any point before his state retirement age.
TSB completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. It 
also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was medium.
In the suitability letter, TSB advised Mr D to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds into the TSB Managed Pension fund which I understand 
had a low to medium risk profile. The suitability report said the personal pension was 
recommended as there was a chance it would outperform the DB scheme and provide higher 
benefits. It says that Mr D thought it was reasonable to transfer because of this.
Mr D complained in 2020 to Lloyds about the suitability of the transfer advice. He says he is 
worse off due to the advice and he wasnt made aware of the downsides. He thinks that if he had 
been made aware that his personal pension could be worth less than the DB scheme he 
wouldnt have transferred.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that there was a clear comparison between the DB 
scheme benefits he was giving up and the benefits, and risks, of the personal pension.
Mr D proceeded after considering these.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that the transfer was viable as there was a reasonable expectation that the personal 
pension would perform well enough to meet, or exceed, the DB benefits he was giving up. 
And Mr D had no need of the death or dependent benefits the DB scheme provided.
Mr D disagreed, his representative said that it was not certain that the transfer was viable as it 
was at the limit of what was considered a reasonable return for a medium risk investor at the 
time. And as this was his only pension planning, he couldnt afford to risk it. It also said that Mr D 
was unlikely to fully understand the advice he was given, and he probably wasnt a medium risk 
investor in any event.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint.
The advice was provided by TSB in 1993. At this time it was a member of the Life Assurance and 
Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO).
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 6 
of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they should 
not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to all 
other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr D with this in mind.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates the 
regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. The investment return 
(equivalent or critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement was around 
10.6% per year.
This compares with the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test of 10.6% per 
year for 17 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle 
projection rate 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all into account, along with Mr Ds medium attitude to risk and also his term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.Looking at the documentation from the time of sale, the advice was given on the basis that 
there was a potential for the personal pension to outperform the DB scheme and provide 
greater pension benefits at retirement. But this wasnt guaranteed, there was also a risk it 
would provide less, and looking at Mr Ds circumstances I think the risk of the transfer 
providing lower benefits was greater than it was reasonable to advise Mr D to take.
Mr Ds attitude to risk was described as medium. Mr D has provided some detail about his 
circumstances at the time of sale. As far as I can see, he had no prior experience of risk- based 
investments, either through personal investments or his employment. So, I dont think he would 
have clearly understood the equity risk he was taking on in the personal pension scheme.
And I dont think Mr D had the capacity to risk his DB scheme benefits. He had worked at the 
same employment since leaving school and this was the only pension provision he had accrued. 
As far as Ive been made aware, he didnt have any other significant savings or financial assets. 
So, I dont think it was right to put what was the majority of his pension provision at risk.
Added to this, Mr D had recently been made redundant and he says it was uncertain at the time 
that he would be able to find work easily in the near future. So, he was at a financially vulnerable, 
and uncertain, time in his life. I think this was the wrong time to be making such a significant 
decision about this financial future.
So, taking all of the above into account, I dont think that Mr D was likely to have had a 
medium attitude to risk at the time. I think it was likely to be much lower than this.
Mr D did have 17 years until retirement and so its reasonable to say that he could be 
advised to take some risk over this time. But, I dont think this overrides the factors above 
that lead me to conclude that he should have been advised to take on an investment risk that 
was at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
In this case, given the critical yield was 10.6%, Mr D needed to follow at least a medium risk 
investment strategy for the transfer to be worthwhile. He needed to invest in funds with a medium 
risk, or above, for the personal pension to be likely to keep pace with the DB scheme benefits. I 
dont think this would be right for him.
If Mr D invested in a fund (or funds) that had a lower risk than medium, it would likely provide 
lower returns. And this, in turn, would make it likely that Mr D would receive pension benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme would provide at retirement. Its relevant 
that the literature from the time said that Lloyds wouldnt recommend that a transfer proceed if 
Mr D had a low, or no, attitude to risk. I think this is closer to Mr Ds likely tolerance to risk.
With this in mind, I think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr D.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr D required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. There is no evidence 
from the time of sale that his was discussed and Mr D hasnt subsequently said he wanted to do 
this.
I also cant see any evidence that Mr D had a strong need for a variable income throughout his 
retirement. Again, this doesnt seem to have been discussed.
Under the DB scheme, Mr D was entitled to an annual income of £13,284 at 65. And the 
income planning was based around this. So, Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income 
needs in retirement through the DB scheme at 65.
Furthermore, Mr D was only 42 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr D had at least 17 years before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D 
to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would be. If Mr D later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so 
closer to his retirement.
Death benefits
Mr D was divorced at the time and it was recorded that he had a child. I understand this child 
lived with his ex-partner, so Mr D wasnt directly financially responsible for him. He was also in a 
relationship and he says it was discussed that it may be more beneficial for any dependents he 
may have (in the future) if he transferred the DB scheme to a personal pension.
But the advice was given on the basis that Mr D had no dependents. And this doesnt seem 
unreasonable. So, overall, I dont think the possibly of different death benefits available through 
a transfer to a personal pension justified the risk of a decrease of Mr Ds pension benefits.
Suitability of investments
TSB recommended that Mr D invest in the TSB Managed Pension fund. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it follows 
that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr 
D should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the TSB 
Managed Pension fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for a greater retirement income and perhaps some flexibility, with 
a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But TSB wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D needed to take a higher risk than he 
should or risk obtaining lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer that outweigh this. So, I think TSB shouldve advised 
Mr D to remain in his DB scheme.
I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against TSB's advice. Ive 
considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring out 
of the DB scheme, against Lloydss advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced 
investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ds retirement provision. I note that 
TSB approached Mr D whilst he was in a branch, and there was no indication he wanted, or 
even was aware he could, transfer his DB benefits before this.
So, if TSB had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it may not be in best interests, particularly in respect of the risk of it, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I currently think Lloyds should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Lloyds and Mr D received my provisional decision. Mr D, or his representative, didnt have 
anything to add to what I said. 
Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional decision it said that:
Lloyds and Mr D had significant contact over a number of months. The advice was fully explained to Mr D and he confirmed that he understood and 
agreed with it. He was aware of the DB scheme benefits he was giving up, before he 
proceeded. 
In April 1992 Mr D took out an equity based savings plan. He paid £25 a month into 
this. 
He also invested £10,000 into an equity based savings bond around the same time 
as the pension transfer (Lloyds has not given me the exact date).  
And he also had around £30,000 in cash savings. 
He made other investments in subsequent years. 
At the time of advice 10.6% was a reasonable expectation of investment growth, 
given that, for example and amongst other things, interest rates were around 10.5%. 
The transfer analysis, which was done at a later time as part of the personal pension 
review, confirmed that the transfer was broadly reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I said in my earlier decision was that I didnt think the transfer was suitable for Mr D. 
This is because the fund he invested in needed to perform at a reasonably high rate, that is 
around 10.6% each year, in order for it to be worthwhile. This was similar to the regulators 
middle or medium growth rate which was 10.5% or 10.75%. I wasnt persuaded that Mr D 
wanted to, or had the capacity to, take this much risk. I didnt think it was reasonable to 
recommend that Mr D give up his DB scheme benefits given his likely tolerance and capacity 
for risk. 
Lloyds has said that Mr D had started a small equity-based savings plan before he made the 
pension transfer. He also had some cash in savings and current accounts. And he invested 
£10,000 in an equity based lump sum savings plan at around the same time he made the DB 
pension transfer. So, it wasnt correct to say Mr D didnt have any investment experience 
and he did have some capacity to take investment risk. Lloyds thinks that because of this its 
likely that he was prepared to take the risk of transferring the DB scheme.   
Ive gone on to consider if it was suitable to recommend that Mr D transfer his DB scheme 
benefits given this new information. 
I can accept that Mr D may have had some investment experience before making the 
transfer. But the regular savings plan he started was for a modest amount, and he hadnt 
been saving for a long time. So, I dont agree that Mr D was likely to have fully understood 
the ups and downs of equity-based investments due to the savings plan he started before 
the transfer. 
He did invest a larger amount in equity based investments around the same time as the DB 
transfer. And he did go on to make some other investments. But these dont demonstrate 
any kind of significant knowledge or acceptance of investment risk before he made the DB 
transfer. They were all started at the same time at the DB scheme or later. And the plan he 
started at around the same time still represented a modest amount of his capital in any 
event. Again, I dont think this investment shows he wanted to take a significant risk with his 
pension arrangements. 
So, overall, I dont think Mr Ds investment history demonstrated that he would be familiar 
with the volatility and risks of equity-based investment to any great degree at the time of sale. I dont think that fact that he did have some investments led to his attitude to risk being 
as high as medium. 
The pension fund needed to perform at, or above a medium risk for it to be worthwhile. As I 
think that Mr D had a lower attitude, and capacity for risk than this, I dont think it was likely 
to be right for him to make the transfer.  
Lloyds hasnt commented on Mr Ds wider situation, other than believing that this didnt affect 
his ability to make financial decisions. But, to me, this is the most important aspect of his 
circumstances. 
My earlier findings about Mr Ds capacity to take a risk with his pension planning were based 
on the fact that his was his only accrued private pension. And his future employment 
prospects seem to have been limited. So, it wasnt certain, or perhaps even likely, that he 
would be in position to accrue any further private pension entitlement. I still think Mr D was in 
a vulnerable situation because of this and TSB should have recognised this and acted 
accordingly.
So, there was a significant risk that Mr D would be materially worse off due the advice Lloyds 
gave. And taking into account all of his circumstances. I dont think it was right that Lloyds 
advised him to do this. 
Mr D did have some cash at the time of sale. But I think this strengthens my findings above. 
If Mr D had some other means to live off for the foreseeable future then this was a further 
reason why he didnt need to transfer he DB scheme benefits. He could, of course, have 
transferred at a later date if he had a pressing need to do this.
Overall, I still dont think he had the tolerance for risk, or capacity for risk, to say it was 
suitable for him to take on the risk of the pension transfer. 
I accept that Mr D may have had a reasonable amount of contact with the TSB 
representative, and the advice may have been explained to him. Although after such a long 
time, as I said above, its difficult to say what happened conclusively. But this doesnt alter 
my findings about whether it was right to advise him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. I still 
dont think this was the case. 
Because of all of the above I still think that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for TSBs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Lloyds should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Mr D retired at 65 so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.Lloyds may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his 
likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Lloyds receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Lloyds 
to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds to pay Mr D 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require Lloyds to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Lloyds 
to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lloyds pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts a final decision on the same basis, the money award becomes binding 
on Lloyds.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman