DRN-4366612
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt renew their home 
insurance policy.
Mrs C has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to her only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Mrs C has made a separate complaint about the way Advantage handled a claim she 
made under the home insurance policy. As thats been considered separately, I wont 
be considering it here. Ill focus on the policy renewal complaint.
Mrs C took out home insurance through a broker, H. At the 2022 renewal, Advantage 
was the underwriter.
Prior to the 2023 renewal, H told Mrs C that Advantage wouldnt renew the policy. 
Mrs C asked for more information about Advantages decision, but her queries 
werent answered.
Our investigator said Advantage wasnt obliged to renew the policy, so she didnt 
think it had acted unfairly on that point. But it hadnt sufficiently engaged with Mrs Cs 
queries, so our investigator asked it to pay £100 compensation.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Insurers are only obliged to offer renewals in very specific circumstances. Mrs Cs 
circumstances mean Advantage wasnt obliged to offer her a renewal. So I dont find 
it unfair that it chose not to renew her policy.
When Mrs C asked for more information, it was clear she was concerned about why 
the policy wasnt being renewed and what implications this may have for her. I think 
at this point H was acting as administrator on behalf of Advantage. So Advantage 
was responsible for any actions H took or didnt take answering Mrs Cs queries.
Advantage ought to have engaged with Mrs C to help her understand its decision  
either directly or through H as its administrator. But the response was generic and 
didnt provide any information specific to her or her policy.
I wouldnt expect it to share confidential, detailed underwriting information. But it 
could have provided a broad explanation to reassure Mrs C. Because it didnt, I think 
she was caused avoidable inconvenience. Im satisfied £100 compensation is a 
reasonable remedy to that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman