DRN-3588341
The complaint
Mr T complains Barclays closed his account without notice. Mr T would like a reason and the 
account reinstated. Mr T suffered losses as a result of the closure. He would like 
compensation.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Barclays. The account included a Tech and Travel pack which 
gave Mr T gadget and Travel insurance. 
On 8 September 2021 Mr T received a letter informing him his account was closing 
immediately. His account had closed on 6 September 2021.
Mr T complained to Barclays. There were delays in Barclays investigation and Mr T didnt 
receive the final response letter (FRL) so arranged to collect it in branch around 
13 November 2021.
Mr T told us Barclays decision to close the account had left him without insurance for his 
phones as they were too old to be insured with an independent insurer.  He also said the 
closure of the account meant there were delays in him receiving a benefits payment. It had 
also put him in a difficult financial position, and he had his credit card limit reduced and other 
accounts closed. Mr T said he wanted to know which terms he had breached that allowed 
Barclays to close his account.
Mr T has since brought a complaint to our service about the  Tech insurance which is being 
dealt with separately.
Mr T was unhappy, so he complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the 
complaint he thought:
Barclays should have given Mr T two months notice to close the account. Barclays 
agreed and offered £200 in order to resolve the complaint.
Since Barclays could close the account with 60 days notice Mr T would have lost the 
benefit of the tech insurance in any event  Barclays was not responsible for Mr T not 
being able to insure his devices.
There was no evidence the closure of other accounts or the reduction in credit limit 
was due to Barclays involvement and they shouldnt be held liable for this.
The delay in a benefit payment being credited was the responsibility of Barclays until 
15 September. After that date the delays were caused by Mr Ts other bank I will 
refer to as S.
He thought the offer of £200 was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr T disagreed with the view. He said hed paid for the insurance for his Tech on 
1 September and had no benefit from it as his account closed the 3 or 6 of September. He 
had to call Barclays numerous times and go to branch in order to get his FRL. The calls were 
over an hour long each time. Mr T reiterated his complaint points. He was unhappy with the 
amount of compensation 
The investigator responded to Mr T, he said:
Although there may have been confusion about the date of the closure of the 
account, Mr T was told the 3 September on the phone and the letter said the 
6 September  no significant impact resulted from this error. Mr T subsequently 
agreed with the investigators point.
He attached a copy of the correct terms and conditions which showed Barclays were 
entitled to close the account. Mr T subsequently agreed.  
Mr T had made a claim on his Tech pack in September, so he had received the 
benefit of his September payment despite the closure of the account on the 
6 September. Mr T was offered a refund of £12.50 for his September Travel pack fee.
He agreed Mr T had difficulty receiving the FRL and thought the offer of 
compensation covered it and was fair. 
The investigator reiterated that the error that Barclays had made was the notice 
period given and not the closure of the account.
As there were outstanding points of disagreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Ive considered all of these, but I 
dont believe its necessary to address each and every point that Mr T has made in order to 
meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum 
formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress 
however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and the bank have said before reaching 
my decision. 
Account closure
Mr Ts account was closed with immediate effect. Barclays agreed that they should have 
given Mr T 60 days notice of the closure of the account. As Mr T is unhappy with the closure 
of his account Ive considered if Barclays could have closed Mr Ts account giving 60 days 
notice.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Ts account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they could close the account giving immediate notice for certain reasons or 60 days notice. In this case Barclays gave 
immediate notice but later agreed it should have given Mr T 60 days notice. It follows I wont 
be asking Barclays to reinstate the account.
Mr T wants to know the reason for the closure of his account. Whilst Mr T may have 
expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt required to give him a 
specific reason for closing the account whether on immediate closure or 60 days notice. So, 
I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information  as much 
as hed like to know. 
Tech pack and Travel pack
Mr T had the benefit of a Tech pack and a Travel pack with his account. This gave him tech 
insurance and travel insurance for a monthly fee.
Mr T had paid the fees for both his packs at the start of September. He complained that due 
to the immediate closure he wasnt able to benefit from these payments. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of his Tech pack and they can be terminated 
following the closure of the account. 
Mr T made a claim on his Tech insurance in September following the closure of the account. 
Mr T has said he hasnt received the benefit of his September payment because he was 
claiming for an event prior to September. However, I disagree. I can see that Mr T told the 
insurers the event had happened on the 1 September, the same date as his September 
payment, so I am satisfied that he received the benefit of his September payment.
His travel pack payment for September has been refunded to him by Barclays. So, I dont 
think Mr T has suffered a loss here or been disadvantaged.
Mr T has said that he will find it hard to insure his tech because the devices are too old and 
he will be disadvantaged by this. I have looked at the terms and conditions for the packs and 
I can see that there is no obligation on Barclays to maintain these insurance packs if the 
account is closed. I appreciate that Mr T will find it hard to insure his tech but as the bank 
were entitled to close the account, it follows Barclays are not liable for the issues Mr T may 
have with finding alternative insurance.
Delay in receiving benefit
Due to the closure of the account there was a delay in receiving a benefits payment into 
Mr Ts account. The payment was due into his account on 4 September and credited Mr Ts 
account with S on 14 September. There were further delays in receiving the payment after 
that date. I can see from the evidence some of the delay was due to Barclays closing the 
account with immediate effect and some of the delay was due to issues with Mr Ts other 
account with S. I cant hold Barclays liable for delays caused by S. Due to the closure of the 
account the payment was delayed by 10 days. Had Barclays given Mr T 60 days notice he 
would have received the payment on time. I think this had some impact on Mr T but the 
majority of the impact was with the further delays caused by S which Barclays isnt 
responsible for. Barclays have offered £200 compensation for the error in closing the 
account immediately and the repercussions this had and I think the amount is fair in the 
circumstances.
Delay in receiving FRL 
Mr T had to go into branch to collect the FRL and there were a number of delays and long phone calls that Mr T made chasing this up. I accept Barclays made some errors here. 
Although Mr T was frustrated by this and had to spend time in pursuing the complaint with 
Barclays, Im satisfied he was able to pursue the complaint. I think the amount offered in 
compensation by Barclays covers the inconvenience in pursuing the complaint and is fair in 
the circumstances.
Compensation 
I know Mr T has said he wants more compensation. Barclays have offered £200 
compensation as well as a refund of the Travel pack fee for September. This money has 
already been paid to Mr T. Ive already explained why I think refunding the Travel Pack fee 
was fair and not refunding the Tech fee was also fair.
I have considered whether the amount paid is enough in the circumstances and I think it is. 
Barclays errors are that it closed the account without giving the required notice. There were 
issues with the FRL which must have annoyed Mr T but didnt prevent him from pursuing the 
complaint. Barclays also caused a ten-day delay in the payment of Mr Ts benefit which was 
a direct consequence of the lack of notice in closing the account. I know Mr T wont agree 
with me, but the compensation paid is fair in the circumstances and in line with the sorts of 
awards we make in these circumstances.  In deciding this amount, I have taken into account 
the impact on Mr T of these errors. I also know Mr T had other accounts and wasnt without 
funds.
Putting things right
Barclays have already paid Mr T £200 in compensation and refunded him £12.50. This is in 
line with what I would expect them to do. I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman