DRN-3572925
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds Bank gave it 
incorrect information about making a payment resulting in financial loss.
What happened
L says it wanted to make an international payment of £700,000. A director of L, who is based 
abroad, was told by Lloyds to write to a branch with instructions. A letter was sent and 
received but not acted on. The director had difficulty finding out why and was unable to make 
the payment. L was told to send this instead in daily amounts of £99,999 using online 
banking. L says that this wasnt correct, and it could have been sent in daily payments of 
£250,000. If L had been told this in the first place the money would have been received 
much earlier. And so, it is claiming an exchange rate loss when the money was converted of 
Canadian Dollars $35,104.
Lloyds said it apologised for multiple customer service issues. It accepted that L was given 
incorrect information as unfortunately due to the large amount the branch couldnt process 
the request. L wasnt contacted by the branch about the letter or decision and the director 
had to keep calling. Lloyds said it shouldnt have taken more than one telephone call to 
resolve the issue. It said it wouldnt cover the difference in exchange rates as these are not 
guaranteed. Lloyds paid L £274 for its call costs and compensation of £200.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything further. He said that the branch 
was unable to verify the payment. And when the director arranged for her daughter to visit a 
different branch with copies of relevant identification documents, these couldnt be accepted 
as they hadnt been certified. L was told to send the payment online in smaller amounts. He 
didnt think Lloyds was responsible for the difference in the value of currency L received 
when it was converted.
L didnt agree. The director said that the whole point of the complaint was that Lloyds hadnt 
suggested sending the payments in smaller amounts. And it referred to problems it had in 
June 2020 when it had attempted to send payments in this way in US Dollars. Thats why the 
director had been trying to find a reliable way of sending the money. Had Lloyds given it the 
correct information it could have avoided the exchange loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to set out some key dates around what happened:
26 and 27 August 2021  L calls the Lloyds central teams a number of times about how to 
make the payment and is finally guided to send a letter asking for the money to be sent in 
sterling.
13 to 16 September 2021- L unsuccessfully tries to speak to a branch about this.
20 September 2021  the branch receives a letter dated 16 September 2021 with the 
instruction.
To 30 September 2021  the director tries to contact the branch about the payment and is 
eventually told that it couldnt be verified.
1 October 2021  on the branchs suggestion the directors daughter goes to a different 
branch with copies of identification. A manager there it seems says to L that the payments 
should be made in multiples online.
6 October 2021  L sends international payments of £99,899.99 and £150,000.01
7 October 2021  L sends a payment of £250,000
8 October 2021  L sends a payment of £200,000
12 October 2021  The recipient organisation confirms the money has arrived and on 
instruction from L it is converted to Canadian dollars that day. L notes that it would have 
received more if this had been converted earlier and pursues this with Lloyds.
As set out above the director of L is based abroad. And this made it more difficult and 
expensive to contact Lloyds. Had she been in this country then she could have visited a 
branch to authorise the payment. L explains it had made international payments before in 
June 2020 using online banking but had experienced difficulty. Im not assessing those 
problems in this complaint. But I think its relevant to note that it says it then sent 300,000 US 
Dollars on one day split into three payments. So, it was aware that this could be done but 
says that there were issues with those payments being thought to be duplicated. And it 
wanted a more reliable method.
Lloyds has accepted the problems with customer service. And I think in part that was down 
to branch processes and whether the managers involved were satisfied that L had 
authorised the payment. With hindsight it says that L should always have been told to send 
the money online.
I need to think about appropriate compensation for L.
Im afraid I also dont think its fair and reasonable to expect Lloyds to pay what L says is its 
exchange loss. I say that for several reasons. 
Exchange rates are clearly variable and could alternatively have moved in Ls favour which it 
wouldnt have been concerned about. I consider that this underlines that L fairly bore that 
exchange risk here. Had it been concerned about the rate moving then it could have made 
arrangements to fix a rate. But in any event Lloyds was never involved in a currency 
conversion and that was made through a third party on Ls instruction. 
Although I note that L wrote on some of its correspondence to Lloyds about the mounting 
exchange difference I dont see that Lloyds every agreed to adopt that risk or guaranteed 
how long a payment would take. And I would have reasonably expected L to take action to 
mitigate any differences that it was specifically aware of. 
I also note that there were periods based on the timeline above between 27 August 2021 
when L was told to send a letter and 20 September 2021 when the letter was received and 1 
October 2021 when L was told to send individual payments and 6 October 2021 when it 
started doing so that were outside Lloyds control. And so were the actions of any other bank 
involved in processing international payments and here which werent confirmed as all completed until 12 October 2021.
I find here instead that Lloyds is fairly responsible for customer service issues and the 
needless calls it accepted L had to make. It has I understand covered those call costs as 
claimed by L. And I find that the compensation for inconvenience to be adequate taking into 
account our published guidelines and given that L is a company and separate legal entity 
that cant suffer distress. So, I wont be requiring Lloyds to do anything more. I know this will 
be a disappointment for the director.
If L doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant 
timescales
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC trading 
as Lloyds Bank need do no more that it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman