DRN-3473302
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited hasnt provided her with support it should 
have when she experienced financial issues due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She says she 
struggled to get hold of Moneybarn which meant her agreement was terminated.
What happened
Mrs C entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in January 2019 to acquire 
a used car. The agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £256. Mrs C says 
that she experienced financial issues due to the Covid-19 pandemic and tried to contact 
Moneybarn but struggled to get through. She says she tried to put an agreement in place for 
her payments, but these werent accepted.
Moneybarn issued a final response letter in November 2021. It said that Mrs C was sent a 
default notice in April 2021 stating that the arrears needed to be remedied. There was then 
contact with Mrs C through May 2021 and she said she would be receiving £100 from a 
family member to pay towards her agreement. Mrs C sent in some income and expenditure 
information and then said she wanted to pay £100 a month. Moneybarn said this wasnt 
acceptable as Mrs C needed to make her contractual payments in order for it to consider a 
payment plan. Further discussions took place in which Mrs C said she had been offered a 
job but Moneybarn said it would need further details before setting up a payment plan. As 
the required information wasnt provided a payment plan wasnt set up and following further 
contact a default letter was sent in July 2021. As the required action wasnt taken, a 
termination notice was sent in August 2021. Moneybarn said it hadnt done anything wrong 
in regard to the actions taken.
Moneybarn noted Mrs Cs comment about struggling to make contact. It acknowledged that 
Mrs C had tried to make contact, but it didnt agree that the call wait times were excessive. It 
said the options provided to Mrs C following the termination of her agreement were the ones 
that were available to her. It said the final billing notice was sent in September 2021 and 
Mrs C should make contact to discuss setting up a payment plan for the outstanding 
balance.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought it reasonable that Moneybarn would 
need to get a full understanding of Mrs Cs financial situation before any payment plan was 
put in place. He said that Mrs C didnt complete an income and expenditure form and so 
Moneybarn wasnt able to establish how best to help. He noted that default letters were sent, 
and as Mrs C didnt meet the requirements of the July default notice her agreement was 
terminated. Our investigator thought Moneybarn had acted in line with the agreement terms 
and conditions and the relevant guidance and didnt think it had done anything wrong by 
taking the action it did.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was in constant contact with 
Moneybarn having spent hours on the phone and sent over 50 emails. She said Moneybarn 
refused to accept any arrangement and only gave her unrealistic. She said she didnt refuse 
to speak to Moneybarn and did complete an income and expenditure form but her offer of 
repayment was refused. She said she offered to resume her payments and pay £100 a 
month towards her arrears but this still wasnt accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the issues Mrs C has experienced and understand that she feels she 
hasnt been fully supported or provided with reasonable options to enable her to keep the 
car. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Moneybarn 
had done something wrong, not provided the support it should have, or treated Mrs C 
unfairly.
Mrs C entered a conditional sale agreement for a term of 48 months and agreed to make 
monthly repayments of £256. I have looked through the system notes and can see that 
Mrs C struggled to maintain her payments towards the end of 2019 and she was contacted 
about the arrears on her account. Because of this a payment plan was set up in December 
2019. 
Mrs C has explained that she was adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and I can 
see that Moneybarn put a one-month payment deferral in place in March 2020. This was 
extended to a three-month payment deferral in May 2020 which was in line with the relevant 
guidance at that time. When the guidance changed to say six-month payment deferrals 
should be provided, Moneybarn contacted Mrs C about this. Over the following months 
Moneybarn notified Mrs C of the payments due and the arrears on her account. Therefore, I 
find it did provide a reasonable level of support at this time.
The arrears on Mrs Cs account increased and Mrs C was contacted about this. I can see 
she made contact in March 2021 to say a family member was in hospital and she was 
needing to care for another family member. However, as further contact wasnt made and 
payments were missed, I do not find I can say that Moneybarn did anything wrong by issuing 
a default notice in April 2021.
Following the issue of the April default notice, there was contact between Mrs C and 
Moneybarn. Mrs C has explained that she felt she wasnt getting anywhere with her emails 
and that she had completed income and expenditure information. She said a family member 
was going to assist with payments and was asked to provide evidence of this. Following this 
it was identified that Mrs C wanted a payment plan for £100 a month rather than her normal 
payment plus an additional amount towards arrears and Moneybarn said this couldnt be 
accepted. Mrs C then suggested borrowing further money to meet the monthly repayments 
and not making payments towards other bills. Given this suggestion I find it reasonable that 
Moneybarn wanted to understand Mrs Cs financial situation before accepting a payment 
plan. So, while I note Mrs C subsequently said she was no longer struggling and asked for a 
payment plan, I do not find that Moneybarn acted unreasonably by requiring further 
information before accepting this.
As a payment plan wasnt in place and noting the level of Mrs Cs arears, I do not think that 
Moneybarn did anything wrong by issuing a further default notice in July 2021. This 
explained the action that needed to be taken. As Mrs C didnt make the required payment 
and I do not have evidence that she made contact with Moneybarn before the expiry of the 
default notice, I do not find I can say that Moneybarn was wrong to move ahead with the 
termination of the agreement.After the termination of the agreement, Mrs C made contact as agents were trying to collect 
the car. I can see that Mrs C had sent emails to Moneybarn around this time but Moneybarn 
has said these were responded to requesting Mrs C to call. I understand that Mrs C had tried 
to call and I appreciate that spending time waiting would have been frustrating but the 
contact records shows she was successful in getting through on 17 August and she was 
provided with her options. I understand she doesnt feel that the options given at that time 
were reasonable, however as the agreement had been terminated, I find she was provided 
with the options available. 
In conclusion, I understand that Mrs C made offers of payment but as the requested 
evidence wasnt given to support a payment plan being put in place, I do not find I can say 
Moneybarn did anything wrong by not agreeing this. Given the arrears on Mrs Cs account I 
cant say that issuing a default notice was unfair and as the required actions wasnt then 
taken I do not find that Moneybarn was wrong to terminate the agreement. After this it 
provided Mrs C with her options and I cant say it was wrong to continue with the recovery of 
the car. 
I know this will be a disappointment to Mrs C but in this case, I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint. As Mrs C has explained her financial situation, we would expect Moneybarn to 
treat her positively and sympathetically and to work with her to set up an affordable 
repayment plan for any outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman