DRN-2984106
The complaint
Mr Cs unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC have closed his accounts with them with immediate effect.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr C went into branch and wanted to pay in some money. He says he was 
greeted at the front of the branch and asked if he wanted to pay in cash. Mr C says he just 
wanted to use the counter services and didnt feel comfortable saying this, as he had quite a 
lot of money with him at the time. He said he asked to be dealt with quickly but was later told 
he was verbally abusive to the staff in the branch. Because of that, Lloyds said they were 
going to be closing his accounts with them.
Mr C says he asked for a branch meeting to discuss this, and was turned down, and wanted 
the CCTV reviewed to show he wasnt abusive  both of which he says when speaking to 
the complaints department they agreed with his thoughts. Mr C says he was offered £60 but 
turned this down as really all he wants is his accounts to remain open.
Lloyds issued their final response on Mr Cs complaint on 2 July 2021. In it they said they 
were paying Mr C £60 because theyd told him they were only closing one of his accounts  
but actually they were closing all of them. They appreciated there would be some 
implications with that. Lloyds added the reason they were closing his accounts was due to 
Mr Cs unacceptable behaviour over a period of time in branch. They pointed to terms and 
conditions of accounts Mr C held with Lloyds to explain they could do this  and said all his 
accounts would be closed on 30 July 2021. The accounts were eventually closed on 
11 August 2021.
Lloyds added they couldnt release the CCTV to Mr C, as they can only release it to certain 
groups if appropriate conditions are met. They said the branch manager did try and speak to 
Mr C, but he refused to take the call. And they said theyd noted Mr C also wanted to 
complain about the staff who complained about him  and they said their staff have the right 
to work without fear of abuse or other unacceptable behaviour, so they wouldnt be 
upholding his complaint regarding this.
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked us to look into things  saying all he wanted was for his 
accounts to remain open, that he hadnt done anything wrong, and Lloyds were acting 
inappropriately and excessively. He also explained he had received a call from someone 
claiming they were from Lloyds, but he thought it could be a scam so didnt talk to them. 
Mr C also provided information from a set of rules that in summary said Lloyds cant 
disadvantage him by enforcing their contractual terms.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs concerns. He did ask Lloyds for the CCTV 
footage, but they explained it had no sound, so wouldnt prove anything anyway. And, 
overall, he found Lloyds had acted fairly in closing down Mr Cs accounts. So, he wouldnt be 
asking Lloyds to keep the accounts open. He also had a discussion with Mr C about 
alternative options for his banking and what he could do to get accounts opened elsewhere.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt certain rules from the Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(BCOBS) applied to his case  and meant Lloyds actions cant be detrimental to him. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have relied on Section 25.1 of their terms and conditions to justify the closure of 
Mr Cs accounts. These terms say:
25. Ending this agreement or an account, benefits package or service
25.1 This agreement continues until you or we cancel or end it. The table below shows how 
this agreement (or any account, benefits package or service) can be ended. If we end it, we 
will act in a matter we think is reasonable in the circumstances and will try to reduce the 
inconvenience to you.
And, under reasons Lloyds can end the agreement, it says, amongst other things:
If we reasonably think that:
You are or may be behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive 
way)
So, the key question in this case is whether Lloyds have acted fairly in saying Mr C has 
acted improperly as theyve said he has  something he strongly disputes.
The reason Lloyds have said theyre going to close Mr Cs accounts is because of his 
behaviour in branch. I wasnt present at the time, so I need to decide what I think is more 
likely than not, based on the information I do have.
Ive seen information from Lloyds explaining the conversations they had with Mr C, and how 
his behaviour affected staff members, and other customers. Im not going to go into detail 
regarding this, but Im satisfied its sufficiently serious for Lloyds to say hes been behaving 
improperly  as per their policy terms.
I realise Mr C strongly disputes the information written about him. But Im persuaded Lloyds 
wouldnt take the decision to close his accounts lightly given how long hes banked with 
them. So, Im persuaded by their evidence.
Ive noted Mr C wanted us to review the CCTV footage, as he feels this will prove his point. 
Lloyds have said they cant release it because of legal restrictions  and that sounds 
plausible to me. And I also think its likely it wouldnt prove Mr Cs case, as hes arguing. I 
say that because Lloyds have told us theres no sound  so we wont hear whats being said. 
Ive seen no reason to doubt that and again sounds plausible from a security perspective  
given sensitive conversations will happen in a banking hall.
Overall then, Im satisfied Lloyds have acted fairly in saying Mr C has acted improperly. In 
this kind of situation, banks will often close peoples accounts immediately. But Lloyds 
havent done that. Instead theyve given Mr C over a month to arrange for his accounts to be 
moved. Initially, I can see they told him theyd close his accounts on 30 July and have said 
bank procedure is to give a further week to allow for the post. Mr C has said it was an 
additional 14 days he was given  and they closed his account three days earlier than they 
said they would. While I know Mr C feels strongly about this, Ive not seen anything to show Lloyds said Mr C 
could have an additional 14 days. The letters hes provided dont say theyll give an extra 14 
days. What I can see from Mr C and Lloyds information is they wrote to him and said his 
accounts would close on 30 July  and have provided evidence to show they were closed on 
11 August. So, I cant reasonably say theyve treated Mr C unfairly on this point either.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr C says hes having in opening another account  and 
the financial issues hes had as a result of his accounts being closed. I can see hes been 
given suggestions of how to get another account opened  including an option to do this with 
the identification he currently has available to him  but Ive not seen anything to show hes 
taken this advice.
Mr C has said if the bank had contacted him and asked what the problem was, then they 
could have had a constructive conversation  and said they didnt give him an opportunity. 
But, Ive seen the evidence that showed Lloyds did try and talk to him, and he ended the call. 
So, again, I think Lloyds have tried to work with Mr C to resolve this matter but couldnt. 
Ive also noted Mr C has referred to BCOBS section five which he says say banks cant 
disadvantage people by strictly relying on their terms and conditions. Mr C has provided links 
to a news article from 2012 which mentions this. But it seems the regulations have been 
updated since then as Ive looked at what BCOBS section five currently says, and it doesnt 
mention this information. Im required to take into account the law, relevant rules and 
regulations  but Im not bound by them. My overarching remit is to consider things on a fair 
and reasonable basis. And, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied Lloyds have acted fairly in 
closing Mr Cs accounts and treated him fairly with the time theyve given him to make 
alternative arrangements.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman