DRN-4128316
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly closed down her accounts.
Miss B is represented by her mother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Miss B herself.
What happened
Nationwide wrote to Miss Bs mother regarding a separate issue on 8 June 2022. Within this 
letter, they informed Miss Bs mother that as Miss Bs accounts are held by her mother, in 
trust for Miss B, then she would need to take action by 7 July 2022, otherwise Miss Bs 
accounts would be closed and the funds would be sent by cheque. They said the accounts 
could stay open if Miss Bs mother was removed as the responsible adult and replaced with 
another adult with parental responsibility. Miss B made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They said they were unable to reveal any 
details about why they had made the decision as this related to her mother, and it would be 
a breach of data protection to tell Miss B. They said they told Miss Bs mother of the options 
she had with the accounts she held for Miss B and they requested Miss B to speak to her 
mother about this. Miss B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said in the letter Nationwide sent 
Miss Bs mother, it explained because the relationship had broken down, they were 
terminating her membership. He said the accounts were opened and held in trust by Miss 
Bs mother, which meant the money in the accounts was Miss Bs, but her mother was acting 
on her behalf and she was responsible for managing the accounts until Miss B reached the 
legal age to take responsibility, which was outlined in the terms and conditions.
Our investigator said that in terms of the notice given, there was a months notice given here 
as this was in relation to the action that was required relating to the options about Miss Bs 
accounts that her mother needed to take. He said as Miss Bs mother was made aware of 
these options and what she needed to do, then the notice was not unreasonable or caused 
any detriment  and the accounts remained open for several months after the notice was 
given. Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Nationwide to inform Miss Bs mother that action 
needed to be taken or the accounts would be closed. This is because although the accounts 
contained Miss Bs money, her mother had parental responsibility, so in effect she was 
considered the bare trustee and therefore I would expect Nationwide to write to Miss Bs 
mother instead of Miss B herself. Miss Bs mother would have the responsibility to inform 
Miss B of what was happening. 
The requirement for Miss Bs mother was to be removed from the accounts, so the accounts 
could stay open. There were three accounts in total and all three had different requirements 
in order to stay open. So Nationwide were clear in the letter they sent Miss Bs mother on 8 
June 2022, that certain actions had to be taken by 7 July 2022, or they would close the 
accounts. 
But as no action was taken, this is why Nationwide closed two of the three accounts (Ill 
address the third account  the Child Trust Fund later). Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions to see if the relevant notice was given on the two accounts Nationwide closed. 
Nationwides savings terms and conditions state We can close your account at any time as 
long as we tell you personally at least two months before we close it. They also state there 
are certain circumstances where they can close an account straightaway. But Ive been 
provided with no evidence that Miss B herself had done something which would meet the 
exceptional circumstances. So I would have expected them to provide at least two months 
notice to Miss B for them closing her account.
But the reality here is that the accounts would not have been closed if certain action was 
taken. So I cant say Nationwide have discriminated against Miss B due to the relationship 
they had with her mother as they werent proposing to close down Miss Bs accounts 
straightaway  or at all if certain actions were taken. On one of the accounts, Miss Bs 
mother could be simply removed from the account and Miss B could have ownership of it 
herself. And on another account, Miss Bs mother needed to be replaced by another adult 
with parental responsibility for Miss B. So Nationwide were only going to take the action of 
closing these accounts if no action was taken by 7 July 2022, or if there was nobody else 
with parental responsibility to replace Miss Bs mother on one of the accounts. 
While the deadline was 7 July 2022, these two accounts were not actually closed until 12 
September 2022. So I cant say one months notice caused any detriment here as it was 
over three months after they wrote to Miss Bs mother to let her know what the options were. 
As Miss Bs mother took no action on the accounts prior to 12 September 2022, then this is 
why the accounts were closed, and closed longer than two months after she was made 
aware that they could close. So Im not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong here. 
For the Child Trust Fund, Nationwide could not close this. They have explained to our 
service that this is because they wouldve needed permission from HM Revenue & Customs 
in order to do this, and that is why this account wasnt closed. But they have said that this 
was transferred to a third party provider and closed on their end on 1 February 2023. 
Ultimately Im persuaded that Nationwide did make all the available options known to Miss 
Bs mother and followed the correct procedures when deciding to close the accounts. While 
two accounts were closed later than the deadline given, this would have given Miss Bs 
mother more time to take the action required. So it follows that I dont require Nationwide to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman