DRN-4133674
The complaint
Miss O and Mr T complain that the mortgage offer they got from HSBC UK Bank PLC was 
withdrawn because they didnt pay the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) on their existing 
lending. But Miss O and Mr T said HSBC didnt tell them how or when to pay this. 
What happened
Miss O and Mr T told us that in summer 2022 they applied, through a broker, to take out a 
new mortgage deal with HSBC. They didnt manage to take up HSBCs offer. HSBC said 
that was because theyd never paid the ERC to get out of their old mortgage deal. But they 
felt that wasnt fair, because HSBC didnt tell them how to make a payment, or even when 
this payment was due. 
Miss O said shed called HSBC to make payment on the last day before the offer expired, 17 
November. She said she didnt have a reference number she needed, so she planned to just 
call back, but HSBC hadnt told her that the offer was expiring that very day. So she called 
back the next day to make payment, and was then told the offer had expired. 
Miss O and Mr T said they were paying much more on their mortgage now, because of this. 
They were expecting monthly payments of around £850, but were now paying almost 
£1,000. They wanted HSBC to honour the original rate that it had offered them in July 2022.
HSBC said that its previous offer of a mortgage deal to Mr T and Miss O, which was made in 
late 2020, was clear that they would need to pay an ERC if they wanted to bring that deal to 
an end before 31 December 2022. 
In July 2022, Mr T and Miss O applied for a new rate, which would mean their existing deal 
would end before this date. So they needed to pay the ERC on their existing lending. 
HSBC pointed out that this was a broker application. So HSBC communicated with the 
broker. It said it expected its messages to be passed on to Mr T and Miss O by that broker.
HSBC noted that when it issued the July 2022 offer, that was subject to the following 
condition  Where applicable, you are required to pay any existing Early Repayment 
Charges before we will switch your mortgage. This offer also said that it was valid until 18 
October 2022, but after that date it may change.
Although that special condition didnt make clear that an ERC actually applied in Mr T and 
Miss Os case, HSBC said it had messaged their broker on 5 October to prompt payment of 
the ERC on Mr T and Miss Os existing lending. It said it could see this message had been 
read, but no payment was received, before the expiry date of 18 October 2022 set out on the 
offer.
HSBC then messaged the broker again on 17 November, asking once more for payment. 
The offer had been due to expire on 18 October, but HSBC said it had extended this offer by 
30 days, as it had changed its policy on how long mortgage offers would last, not long after 
Mr T and Miss O had received their offer. So on the date when it messaged the broker 
again, it would still have honoured this rate for Mr T and Miss O.
The broker didnt contact HSBC until 18 November, when it asked how much the ERC would 
be. HSBC told the broker it couldnt say, that information was given to clients when they call 
to make payment. HSBC also mentioned then that the planned mortgage switch date had 
already passed, it was about a month earlier and the ERC hadnt been paid. (The call ended 
at this point, the recording doesnt indicate why.) 
HSBC didnt get the ERC payment, and it cancelled the rate switch on this mortgage on 20 
November. On 1 January 2023, Mr T and Miss Os mortgage reverted to a standard variable 
rate, and they have since taken up a different mortgage deal with HSBC.
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt honour the previous rate for 
Miss O and Mr T.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr T and Miss Os 
previous mortgage offer was clear that an ERC was payable if that deal was ended before 
31 December 2022. So Mr T and Miss O did have to pay an ERC. And the special conditions 
of their new offer said HSBC wouldnt let them switch to this new offer until any ERC due on 
their existing lending had been paid. That new offer also had a clear expiry date. 
Our investigator said HSBC had shown us it messaged Mr T and Miss Os broker on 5 
October 2022 asking for the ERC payment to be made. She said she wouldnt expect HSBC 
to contact Mr T and Miss O directly, when theyd applied through a broker. Our investigator 
didnt think it was HSBCs fault that Mr T and Miss O lost their mortgage offer. 
Miss O replied, to disagree. She said lots of HSBCs complaints were upheld, which showed 
it wasnt reasonable. And she said HSBC had never told her and Mr T how to pay the ERC. 
They didnt know if this would be taken automatically, or perhaps added to their monthly 
direct debit payments. 
Miss O didnt think it was fair for HSBC to extend their offer to November, without informing 
them of that change. She thought HSBC should have resent an offer letter if the details had 
changed. 
Miss O repeated that when she tried to pay, she was told shed need to call back. She said it 
was unfair for HSBC not to tell her on that call that the offer was due to expire at midnight 
that night. She wanted our service to listen to this call.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said it wasnt unusual for HSBC to talk directly 
to the broker in a broker application. She thought it was the brokers responsibility to pass on 
messages to Mr T and Miss O. But Miss O still didnt think this was fair. Because no 
agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this complaint is important to Mr T and Miss O. So Im sorry to have to tell 
them that Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. I know that Miss O has referred to other complaints against HSBC. But Im only looking here 
at what has happened in this case.
Mr T and Miss Os previous mortgage offer, from 2020, did explain when an ERC would be 
payable. And I think HSBC had made paying that ERC on the old lending, a condition of the 
new offer. So Im satisfied that an ERC would be payable to end that deal, before Mr T and 
Miss O could take up the offer HSBC made in July 2022.
Mr T and Miss O say they just didnt get any information from HSBC on how or when to 
make the payment. But, as our investigator said, when someones applying through a 
broker, the bank would usually talk to the broker. I dont think its unreasonable or unfair here 
for HSBC to have sent messages directly to the broker, and for it to have expected those 
messages would be passed on.
HSBC said it prompted the broker to make sure the ERC was paid on 5 October. Ive seen 
that message, and I can see it included details of the number Mr T and Miss O needed to 
call to make payment. So I think this information was given to Mr T and Miss Os broker. 
HSBCs offer was valid until 18 October 2022. The deadline was clear in its offer, and HSBC 
had prompted payment of the ERC well before this deadline. So payment should have been 
made by then. I dont know why that didnt happen, but I dont think it was HSBCs fault. 
Mr T and Miss O also complained that HSBC then extended their offer without telling them, 
which they said was also unfair. But I dont think its unfair for HSBC to say that it would have 
honoured this offer for a bit longer than it actually had to. 
HSBC has told our service it had issued the offer with 90 days of validity, to expire on 18 
October. But then its underlying policy changed, and it started issuing offers with 120 day 
validity. Thats why it would still have honoured this offer up until mid-November. 
As Mr T and Miss O hadnt paid the ERC, HSBC sent another reminder to the broker on 17 
November. It has told us that it would still have honoured the rate it had previously offered, 
at this point. 
Miss O said she called HSBC on 17 November, to pay her ERC, but was told she needed a 
reference. She said she was told she could call back the next day, but later discovered her 
offer had actually expired at the end of the day of her call, 17 November. So she told us that 
when she called back the next day, she was told she could no longer take up this offer. 
I asked HSBC to send our service the recording of this call. In its response, HSBC said it has 
no recording, or other record of any call from Miss O on 17 November. It doesnt have any 
call recording for the following day either. It does have a recording dated 22 November, 
which is when Miss O was told her offer had expired. It sent us that, and Ive listened to it.
HSBC said it discussed the application with Mr T and Miss Os broker on 18 November, and 
it told the broker then that the offer had already expired, so its not clear from this call if 
HSBC would still have honoured the offer on this date. But the payment wasnt made right 
away, and HSBC cancelled the application on 20 November. 
Miss O said she called HSBC on 17 November to make payment, then again on 18 
November when she was told the offer had expired. But she also told us that the email she 
got from her broker telling her to pay the fee was received on 21 November. She showed us 
an email in reply, dated 22 November, saying HSBC needed a reference, and a further email 
chain giving that reference, then explaining Miss O has been told the offer had expired. Considering all of this evidence, I havent been able to see that Miss O called HSBC on 17 
and 18 November, as she said. I think its more likely she called HSBC to make her payment 
on 22 November, in line with the recording we do have. And we know that HSBC had 
already cancelled the application, two days earlier. Given that this was well after the 
deadline given to the broker (and I understand also to Mr T and Miss O) in the July offer, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to say it would no longer honour the offer then.
So I havent been able to see that Mr T or Miss O were misadvised by HSBC about the 
validity or expiry date of their offer. I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr T and Miss O didnt 
make the required payment before this date. I know that Mr T and Miss O will be 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman