DRN-4214546
The complaint
Mr E complains that the monthly annuity payments he receives from Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (Phoenix) are taxed. He complains that they are compensation payments for a 
previous mis-sale and as such should be free of any income tax liability.
The complaint stems from advice given by a business for which Phoenix is now responsible, 
so for clarity Ill refer to all actions as being undertaken by Phoenix itself. 
What happened
In 1990 Mr Es late wife was advised by Phoenix to commence payments into a personal 
pension plan (PPP). She was, at that time, employed by a company which offered an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
In 1993 Mr Es wife passed away. As the beneficiary of the PPP Mr E received two death 
benefit lump sums in 1994.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB) established 
an industry-wide review of particular pension business which had been carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
"Pensions Review". 
The advice that Mr Es late wife had received in 1990 was included in that review, and the 
review concluded that she ought to have been advised to be part of her OPS, and the PPP 
had been mis-sold. As a result of the advice she had lost valuable secure benefits. Following 
the review, in March 1996 Mr E, as his late wifes beneficiary, was offered:
£73,127.61  this represented the tax-free lump sum and pension payments he ought 
to have received, plus interest;
An annuity of £7,525.32 gross per year, payable monthly in advance.
Phoenix informed Mr E that the annuity payments would be paid net of tax at his marginal 
rate.
These annuity payments, increasing annually by inflation (measured by the Retail Price 
Index) and having had income tax deducted, were made from 15 April 1996.
In July 2022 Mr E complained to Phoenix. He made several complaint points, but the one 
relevant to this decision was that he said the annuity payments ought to have been treated 
as compensation for his wife being mis-sold the PPP, and as such the payments should not 
have incurred a tax deduction. He said that Phoenix should have been responsible for 
making good any tax due, and he should have received the monthly amounts gross.
But Phoenix didnt uphold this complaint. It said the annuity was set up to pay the spousal 
benefits that he was entitled to under the Pension Review. This was an annuity which is 
taxed accordingly, and it was unable to provide Mr E with tax advice.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E referred his complaint to our Service where it was 
considered by an Investigator. And having done so, our Investigator didnt think Mr Es 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that the payments made were in the form of an 
annuity, and as such were liable for income tax calculated at Mr Es marginal rate. And 
Phoenix had been fair as it had followed the tax-deduction instructions given to it by the Tax 
Office (HMRC).
But Mr E didnt agree. He maintained that the payments made as part of the Pensions 
Review were compensation or redress and as such were free of tax liability. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have 
looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
Mr E, rather it reflects the informal nature of our Service, its remit and my role in it. And 
some of the issues raised have been considered previously. This decision focusses purely 
on the dispute over the tax deductions from the monthly payments to Mr E. 
And having considered everything, I find myself in agreement with the view of the 
Investigator, for broadly the same reasons. Im satisfied that Phoenix have been fair in its 
answer to this complaint. I understand that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr E, 
so Ill explain my reasoning.
The purpose of the Pension Review was to establish if the advice Mr Es late wife had been 
given by Phoenix in 1990 was appropriate, and if not, to establish if shed suffered a financial 
loss as a result. Very sadly Mr Es wife died before the review was carried out, so Mr E, as 
her beneficiary, was the person who was found to have lost out financially. 
A loss calculation was carried out under the direction and supervision of the then regulator, 
the SIB. As Ive set out in the background, a lump sum payment was made to Mr E and 
ongoing monthly payments commenced in April 1996. The calculation methodology has 
been previously considered by this Service so I will not be commenting on this further. But I 
will consider Mr Es complaint that the monthly payments have been paid to him net of tax, 
and he thinks this is wrong.
The purpose of the Pensions Review was to identify those people who had been misadvised 
to open a PPP when they would have been better off staying in or joining their occupational 
pension scheme.  
The review established that Mr E, as his late-wifes beneficiary, had lost out financially as a 
result of her being misadvised. So the calculations carried out aimed to put Mr E as closely 
as possible in the position he would have been had his late-wife been properly advised. So 
the lump-sum payment made, and the monthly payments which commenced in April 1996, 
were intended to replicate the payments he ought to have received. 
But monthly pension payments are considered as income, and the payments Mr E received 
as a result of the Pensions Review calculation are no different. Tax (at his marginal rate) 
would have been deducted from any monthly pension payments he would have received had 
his late wife been part of her OPS, and the annuity payments calculated were designed to replicate, as closely as possible, those OPS payments. So the monthly payments are not 
compensation  they are pension annuity payments, and as such are liable for the 
appropriate level of income tax deduction.
So Phoenix has acted fairly in informing HMRC that the payments were in the form of a 
pension annuity, and has also acted fairly in following the tax instructions given to it by 
HMRC. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman