DRN-3130880
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed a debit card payment from his bank 
account.
What happened
Mr K has a bank account with Barclays.
On 1 September 2021, he attempted to make a £1,000 purchase of cryptocurrency using his 
debit card.
Mr K says Barclays delayed that payment unnecessarily for security checks. He says this 
cost him £70-80 due to fluctuation in the price of the cryptocurrency.
Mr K complained to Barclays, who told him theyd make the checks in line with their usual 
processes and hadnt made any error. 
Mr K was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important first of all to set out the facts, which I believe arent in dispute.
Mr K first attempted to make the payment using a debit card which had been cancelled and 
replaced around three days earlier.
This triggered an SMS security message to Mr Ks mobile phone. And unsurprisingly, it 
caused Barclays systems to automatically block a transaction made three minutes later for 
the same amount, using the correct details from Mr Ks new card.
This in turn caused Barclays to carry out a further security check with Mr K. And, after that 
check had been completed, his transaction went through - around one minute later.
The delay in the payment caused by the security checks being carried out after Mr K used 
the correct card was around a minute or so. 
Mr K had caused a three minute delay by trying to use his old deactivated debit card. 
I can understand how that can happen - and Im not blaming Mr K for momentarily forgetting 
that his card details had changed. But Im not going to hold Barclays to account for most of 
the four minutes it took for the transaction to go through after Mr K first attempted it.
Barclays are obliged to have adequate fraud prevention and detection measures in place. 
Those measures help protect Barclays customers from fraudulent activity. 
Its for Barclays to decide what algorithms are used to cause security checks to take place 
with their customers when transactions are attempted.
Im satisfied the security checks carried out on Mr Ks payment were routine and in line with 
Barclays usual processes and procedures. Theres no suggestion at all here that Mr K was 
singled out unfairly or unreasonably or treated in any way exceptionally. 
So, I cant see any reasonable argument to suggest Barclays have done anything wrong in 
this case. And I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman