DRN-3026061
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their decision to close his account without 
allowing him access to the remaining funds within it.
What happened
Mr A held a business account with Barclays. In early 2018, Barclays completed a review of 
the account after they received information that suggest the account was being used 
fraudulently. And having done so, they issued Mr A with notice that they intended to close it. 
His account was closed 62 days after this notice was provided.
But Mr A was unhappy about this as the account contained over £32,000 at the time it was 
closed. And Mr A says he was unable to withdraw this amount and Barclays retained it. So, 
Mr A raised a complaint and asked for Barclays to pay the amount left in the account when it 
closed to him
But Barclays responded to his complaint and didnt agree. They explained the funds had 
been returned to the senders following the closure of Mr As account. And they thought this 
was fair following the review of the account. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr A was unhappy about this, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained its not our 
role to decide whether we believe fraudulent activity took place on the account. Instead, they 
explained they had considered whether Barclays had acted fairly, and in line with the terms 
of the account, when closing it and not releasing the funds to Mr A. And they thought 
Barclays had. So, they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more. 
Mr A didnt agree. He explained the nature of the payments received into the accounts as 
well as providing invoices that were issued to the senders when the payments were made. 
He thought this showed he was fairly entitled to the funds that were in the account at the 
point of closure and wanted Barclays to refund this amount to him. As Mr A didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr A. I understand Barclays 
notification that they intended to close his account wouldve come out of the blue and this 
wouldve been both worrying and upsetting. And I appreciate Mr A believes the account was 
used fairly and reasonably so feels the funds in the account at the point of closure should be 
released to him. And as this wasnt the case, I recognise the financial impact this wouldve 
had.
But for me to say Barclays should refund Mr A funds, Id need to be satisfied that acted 
unfairly. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms of the account 
when closing it and not releasing the funds. Or, Id need to be satisfied there was no 
reasonable explanation as to why they decided to close the account. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Barclays have confirmed they made a commercial decision to close the account following 
their internal review. Ive seen the terms of the account Mr A held which explains Barclays 
are able to close an account by providing two months written notice explaining their intention 
to do so. And they also explain that Barclays are able to close an account without this notice 
if they have reasonable grounds to believe the terms of the agreement have been 
consistently broken.
Im satisfied Barclays provided the notice stipulated, so I think they acted in line with the 
terms of the account when closing it.
The terms also explain we do not have to follow a customers instruction if, amongst other
things, it might expose us to claims from a third party and if we reasonably think that a 
payment into or out of an account is connected to fraud or any other criminal activity, 
including where the funds are being obtained through deception. Barclays have confirmed 
they believed Mr As account was being used for fraudulent reasons and so, didnt follow Mr 
As request for the funds in the account to be transferred to him. And instead, the funds were 
sent back to the senders who made the payments into it. I think this shows Barclays 
concerns that they may receive claims from these senders and they proactively returned the 
money. So, I think Barclays acted within the terms of the account when taking this action as 
the clause above provided them with the authority to do so. 
But as well as considering whether Barclays acted in line with the terms of the account when 
closing it and retaining the funds, I also need to be satisfied they had a reasonable reason to 
do so. And I recognise this is Mr As main area of dispute as he believes the payments he 
received into the account were for a valid service he provided. And Ive seen hes provided 
invoices to support this which Ive considered. 
But its not my role to decide whether there has definitively been fraudulent activity on the 
account as this is a criminal activity and doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. Instead, Ive 
thought about the reasons Barclays have provided.
And having do so, Im unable to say the decision Barclays reached was unfair or 
unreasonable. I think its clear Barclays had concerns about the way Mr A used the account 
and the payments that were received into it over a relatively short period of time for 
significant amounts. So, Im unable to say their decision to close the account was 
unreasoned or unfair. 
Ive also seen Barclays gave Mr A the opportunity to dispute this initial decision and submit 
evidence to support his view. And this didnt persuade Barclays to overturn their original 
decision. So, I think Barclays have provided a reasonable explanation as to why they closed 
the account and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I recognise this doesnt help 
alleviate the financial impact he wouldve been caused when the funds in the account were 
returned to the senders rather than released to him. But as Ive explained, I dont think 
Barclays acted unfairly when taking this action.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman