DRN-2411827
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Lloyds. In 2019, he was looking for some new sofas and found a 
supplier that looked suitable on Facebook Marketplace. Mr S carried out some initial checks 
which all suggested this was a legitimate seller. 
He contacted the supplier and it was agreed hed pay by bank transfer. It was arranged that 
hed pay a deposit initially, then pay the balance when the supplier told him the sofas were 
ready to be dispatched.
On 8 February 2019, Mr S transferred the deposit payment of £250 to the account details 
hed been given by the supplier. When the supplier contacted him to say the sofas were 
ready for dispatch Mr S sent the balance due, making this payment of £249 on 14 March 
2019.
After hed paid over this money the furniture wasnt delivered despite numerous dates being 
agreed. Mr S has since found negative reviews online, and the seller has blocked contact. 
Hes realized that this was a scam and that hes lost the money hed paid. 
Mr S reported the matter to Lloyds. Lloyds explained it didnt think it was liable for the money 
Mr S had lost. It said Mr S had authorized the payment and so it hadnt been at fault in 
following his instructions. However, Lloyds accepted that it had given Mr S poor customer 
service when hed first reported the loss. It made him a payment of £50 in recognition of this.
Mr S then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent the scam - 
she didnt think the payments Mr S had sent were particularly out of the ordinary, or so 
unusual that it should have raised Lloydss suspicions. So she didnt think Lloyds could fairly 
be required to refund Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. So the complaint has been passed to me to reach 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and for 
the same reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S. I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he does not accept what 
the investigator said. 
Mr S has been the victim of a crime and is out of pocket by nearly £500 as a result. But that 
loss resulted principally from the actions of a scammer. For me to say Lloyds is liable in this 
type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and should have acted to prevent 
the loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other way.
So I need to first consider what Lloyds was obliged to do here. In broad terms, the starting 
position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorizes it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I must take that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognizes that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer.
 Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
 identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
 look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
 in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr S when he transferred £250 and £249 from his account, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Mr S accepts he authorized the transfers himself. Lloyds had an obligation to follow his instructions.
But as Ive noted above, there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding these transactions. I consider that as a matter 
of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfers made by Mr S were out of character and 
unusual. To decide this, Ive reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Ss account usage, by 
reviewing his account history in the six months prior to the scam.
This is often a finely balanced matter, and Lloyds has a difficult balance to strike in how it 
configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a 
higher than usual risk of fraud.
On balance, I cant fairly say that either transaction was so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to Mr Ss normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Lloyds that Mr S 
was at risk of financial harm.
Mr S had made several other (legitimate) withdrawals in the six months before the scam, 
including several payments in the £100 to £300 range. So the payments of £250 and £249 
simply dont look particularly unusual or out of character to me  these looked much like his 
typical account usage.
As a result, I dont think Lloyds was wrong to allow Mr S to make these transactions without 
questioning him about them. There wasnt enough here for me to think Lloyds should have 
suspected Mr S might be about to fall victim to a fraud.
Ive thought also about the actions Lloyds took after Mr S made it aware of what had 
happened. The banks that received the payments have both explained that by the time the 
scam was reported there was no funds remaining to return to Mr S. Given that over a month 
had elapsed, this is unsurprising as fraudsters will often move money on quickly, and I dont 
find Lloyds is liable here.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for Mr S, but his loss is due to the actions of the scammer and 
I cant fairly say that Lloyds is responsible for what happened. It follows that I cant fairly say 
Lloyds is liable to reimburse him with the money he unfortunately lost to the fraudster.
I think the £50.00 that Lloyds has already paid Mr S for its handling of the reported scam is 
fair. The main cause of the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr S here was the 
scammer. As Ive said above, I simply dont think Lloyds could reasonably have prevented 
this. So I do not hold it responsible for the distress and inconvenience due to the scam itself, 
and I dont require it to do more here.
Mr S has explained about the large number of other people affected by the same scam. He 
mentions he is aware of another instance where the bank has refunded its customer and so 
thinks the same should apply here. In particular, he thinks that this might have been due to 
the provision of evidence about the sale showing more clearly that it was a scam and the 
seller never had the intention of providing the goods.
I dont doubt that Mr S has been the victim of a scam here, and so my decision wouldnt be 
changed by additional information to show how the scam operated or establish with even 
greater certainty that this was indeed a scam. The basis of what I am considering here is 
whether the bank has acted appropriately in Mr Ss own case and in his individual circumstances.
Ive also noted Mr Ss comments about the reimbursement code (the CRM Code) that has 
since been introduced. However, the CRM Code only applies to payments made since it 
came into force on 28 May 2019, and doesnt apply to payments before that date. So it 
doesnt apply to Mr Ss payments.
I am very sorry that to hear about what happened to Mr S and that he has lost out as a 
result. And I appreciate this is a lot of money for him to have lost, alongside all the time he 
has spent on the matter. This was a cynical scam affecting many innocent consumers. But in 
all of the circumstances, I cant fairly say Lloyds could reasonably have prevented what 
happened and I do not find it was at fault here. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require Lloyds 
to refund Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman