DRN-4258912
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that QBE Limited (QBE) has unfairly 
declined a theft claim on its policy. 
Mr R, who is a director of G, brings the complaint on Gs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all comments and actions of Gs broker and Mr R, as being those of G. 
Any reference to QBE includes its agents.  
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them
briefly below.
G took out a Motor Fleet insurance policy. On 30 April 2023, a caravan which G used for 
work events and contained work equipment, was stolen. G made a claim on its policy. 
When reporting the claim to QBE, G was advised the claim would be covered. QBE later 
declined indemnity. In doing so, they said the policy didnt provide cover for caravans.
Unhappy with QBEs decision to decline the claim, G brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Gs complaint. In summary, he said he was satisfied the policy 
didnt provide cover for caravans and therefore QBE hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining the claim.
G didnt agree. It maintained that the caravan met the definition of a trailer as there were no 
exclusions in the policy to exclude it. 
G didnt agree with what our investigator said and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and carefully considered everything G and QBE have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. I dont mean 
any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
In this decision, Im only considering the actions of QBE as the insurer of Gs policy. Any 
concerns about how the claim was reported by the broker to QBE is a separate matter - G 
may wish to raise this separately with the broker.  
Policies can vary considerably in the types of cover they provide. When making a claim, it 
has to be shown the policyholder has suffered loss or damage that their policy covers. G has 
argued that the theft of the caravan should be covered under section D of the policy - trailer 
cover. 
Trailer is defined in the policy as: 
Trailer 
Means any articulated, semi-trailer or draw-bar trailer constructed and used for the 
primary purpose of being towed by a motor vehicle.
G has argued that a trailer is an unpowered vehicle pulled by another and therefore its 
caravan meets this definition. I have carefully thought about what G has said but I note that 
QBE has specifically defined trailer in the policy. When an insurer defines a word its with 
the intention to limit the scope of cover from a more boarder interpretation. 
Its also important to note that we're not a regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an 
insurer what type of cover it ought to provide. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer what 
factors it should take into account when assessing the risk it wants to provide cover for. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those.
Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement. And our service generally takes the
view that, providing insurers treat people fairly - by providing information that is clear, fair, 
and not misleading - insurers are entitled to provide cover for the risks they choose.
 
So when considering whether QBE has done anything wrong, I need to take into 
consideration the definition of trailer as described in the policy. In this case, Im satisfied 
that cover for trailers is limited to that those defined in the policy as a trailer. 
I have reviewed a copy of the purchase invoice along with the details of the caravan 
provided by G. Based on the information Ive seen; Im satisfied that the caravan is not a 
trailer as per the description in Gs policy. It therefore follows that QBE havent acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by declining Gs claim under this section. 
G has argued that during the initial reporting of the claim, it was told the theft would be 
covered under the policy. QBE acknowledged this and apologised for initially stating it would 
be covered. QBE explained it was initially reported as a stolen trailer and it only became 
apparent that it was a caravan when they received the accident report, at which point they 
informed G that the theft of the caravan wasnt covered under the policy. I understand why 
this must have been disappointing for G. But, having reviewed the claim form, it clearly 
states, theft of trailer, Im therefore persuaded that QBE advised correctly on the 
information they were provided at the time. They have however apologised and explained 
the reason for the change in their stance on indemnity and I think thats reasonable. 
G also complains about the delays in registering the claim. QBE acknowledged there were 
some delays in logging new claims. They apologised for any inconvenience this may have 
caused. I dont require QBE to do anything further in this respect. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to G and I understand the impact this theft 
has had on it. But for the reasons explained, I cant reasonably ask QBE to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman