DRN-3645345
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the advice given by AFH Independent Financial Services Limited 
trading as AFH Wealth Management (AFH) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says 
the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs R approached AFH in June 2021 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. I 
understand Mrs R was introduced to AFH through a family member.
AFH completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Rs circumstances and 
objectives. In summary this recorded that she was 54 years old; she was married; shed 
recently resigned from her job, she was a homeowner and had a mortgage with an 
outstanding balance of around £50,000; she owned rental properties with her husband, 
which had a combined value of around £600,000; and she had joint cash assets with her 
husband of around £180,000. AFH also carried out an assessment of Mrs Rs attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be moderate. 
In July 2021 AFH advised Mrs R to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and invest the 
proceeds in a fund which AFH deemed matched Mrs Rs attitude to risk. I understand Mrs R 
was unhappy about the charges of the investment products recommended and having 
conducted her own research the recommendation was changed to an alternative SIPP 
provider and an investment fund from Mrs Rs preferred provider, albeit not the actual fund 
Mrs R indicated she wanted to invest in or the SIPP provider of her choice. In summary the 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to allow Mrs R to leave more 
funds to her son upon her death and to maximise the value of her estate and grow her funds.
Mrs R accepted the recommendation and around £233,000 was subsequently transferred to 
her new personal pension. 
Mrs R complained to AFH in September 2021 about the advice she received. In summary 
she raised concerns about the product and fund selection  she wanted to understand why 
when shed asked for a certain SIPP provider shed ended up with a different one, why she 
couldnt have the fund shed chosen and how it was cheaper to invest in the investment fund 
using the recommended SIPP provider. Mrs R also highlighted her concerns about being 
told she had to agree to ongoing service as a condition of the transfer and that she wasnt 
given online access to her SIPP account.
AFH didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. In summary it said it isnt the case that it would simply 
recommend a product suggested by a client  in its view the SIPP recommended was 
suitable and there was no difference in the charges had it been able to recommend the SIPP 
provider Mrs R indicated she wanted. It said it didnt recommend the investment fund Mrs R 
had selected because it wasnt in line with her assessed attitude to risk. It added that it 
believed offering an ongoing advice service was the right thing to do in the circumstances 
given the complexity of a DB pension transfer, but Mrs R could cancel this service.  Finally it 
apologised for not setting up the online access to the SIPP account and it offered Mrs R 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mrs R referred her complaint to our service adding that she 
thought the transfer itself was unsuitable and not in her best interests. An investigator upheld 
the complaint and required AFH to pay compensation. In summary they said the transfer 
wasnt financially viable because of the growth rate required to match Mrs Rs scheme 
benefits, and there was no other compelling reasons to support a transfer given her 
circumstances at the time.
AFH disagreed. In summary it said it provided a robust advice process where everything was 
shared and explained with Mrs R. It said that, prior to the advice Mrs R completed a 
questionnaire without its involvement and it set out the detailed answers to the questions 
Mrs R answered. I havent set out all of this here  but in summary AFH said the answers 
Mrs R gave here portrayed a client who had clear objectives; she understood the benefits 
and risks of transferring; she didnt intend to take an income from her pension relying on 
other income sources; and that it was logical for her to want to maximise her pension fund 
for succession planning.
AFH said that the investigator had focused solely on the analytical aspect of the advice, 
ignoring Mrs Rs personalised needs and adopted a blanket approach that no DB transfer is 
suitable. It said Mrs R didnt raise the issue of the suitability of the transfer advice when she 
complained to them  her complaint was about the product and the fund she was 
recommended. It repeated the answers it gave in its final response letter to these points. It 
also said that while Mrs R didnt use an insistent client approach, when she initially 
complained she brought up her concerns about the lack of an insistent client option and this 
shows the importance she attached to achieving her objectives and that she didnt have any 
issue with refusing the recommended course of action.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AFH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AFH should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Firstly, I understand that AFH is concerned about the fact that Mrs R is now complaining 
about the transfer advice itself, which wasnt something she raised in her initial complaint to 
them. It also says Mrs Rs comments to us about the advice are contrary to what she said at 
the time when she completed the pre-advice questionnaire.
I dont think its in dispute that at the time of the advice Mrs R felt that transferring out of the 
DB scheme was a good idea. But its clear that, with the benefit of hindsight she feels 
differently now, which is why she is complaining about it. I dont think it is unreasonable that 
Mrs R has changed her mind about things or that her complaint has changed to reflect her 
concerns. I can see that the investigator told AFH about the broadening nature of Mrs Rs 
complaint and Im satisfied it has been given a fair and reasonable opportunity to argue its 
case. Mrs R hasnt provided anything which hasnt already been shared with AFH, so Im 
satisfied I can proceed with my final decision.
Financial viability 
I can see that AFH is concerned about the focus or weight the investigator placed on the 
analytical side of the advice  a refence to the transfer value analysis it carried out to show 
how much Mrs Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as her DB scheme.
I accept, as I will expand on below, that financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice and that there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable despite providing lower or the same overall benefits. But I still think it is an important 
part of the advice  its also the case that the regulator required this analysis to be carried 
out  so I think it is important that I consider it here.The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
I can see that in response to the investigators assessment, AFH queried the investigators 
reference to the discount rate. To reinforce what the investigator said - while there was no 
requirement for AFH to have regard for the discount rate, I think it is a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare 
the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal 
pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be considered a 
reasonable assumption of likely returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mrs R was 54 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork records that it was her 
intention to fully retire in a few years time. AFH produced a Transfer Value Comparator 
(TVC) showing what sum of money Mrs R would need now to invest at a risk-free return to 
provide equivalent benefits to her DB scheme at retirement  in this case her normal 
retirement age of 62. This figure was £323,029 against Mrs Rs transfer value amount of 
£233,238. The difference, £89,791, was therefore the extra amount Mrs R needed her fund 
to grow by  by investing with some risk - to achieve the same level of benefits as her DB 
scheme at her normal retirement age. 
AFH also produced critical yield figures  a different way of showing the same thing. The 
critical yield required to match Mrs Rs benefits at age 62 was 6.2% if she took a full pension 
and 4.2% if she took a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension (these were the 
figures referred to in the revised suitability report following the amended product and 
investment fund recommendation I referred to earlier on.) 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.4% per year for 7 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mrs Rs moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point 
in Mrs R giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, 
at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical 
yield was 4.2%, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available to Mrs R through 
her DB scheme was limited as a result of transferring to a personal pension arrangement 
and investing in line with that attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mrs Rs best 
interests. But as I said above, and has AFH has argued in this case, financial viability isnt 
the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite the limited opportunity to improve on the benefits. 
Ive considered this below.Death benefits
It appears that the primary reason for the recommendation was to enable Mrs R to leave her 
pension fund to her son as she indicated that she was unlikely to need to access her 
pension given her other sources of income.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs R about what was best for her retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide an income in retirement  not a legacy provision 
tool. And it was AFHs duty to advise Mrs R what was in her best interests  not simply to 
facilitate what Mrs R thought she wanted.
Its clear that Mrs R and her husband had accumulated significant wealth  they had an 
investment property portfolio valued at around £600,000, which was unencumbered and they 
held significant joint cash deposits of around £180,000. Its also clear that the property rental 
income alone of around £2,100 a month was more than sufficient to cover both their 
essential expenditure of £12,000 a year and their current expenditure of around £18,000 a 
year. Mrs Rs short-term plan was to purchase another investment property and repay their 
joint mortgage when the fixed rate expired. This would result in an increase to their joint 
disposable income. So on the one hand, Mrs Rs capacity for loss was relatively high and 
there was no apparent reliance on her DB scheme income to meet her retirement income 
need.
But on the other hand, Mrs R and her husband, certainly prior to receipt of their state 
pensions, were reliant on the rental income as the primary source of their retirement 
provision. But rental income cannot reasonably be described as guaranteed and in my view, 
by placing all of their eggs in one basket, Mrs R and her husband were already exposed to a 
not insignificant degree of risk. Over time its possible that the rental market could change 
affecting their income stream and/or the upkeep and maintenance of the property portfolio 
could increase their expenditure needs.
So while Mrs R said she didnt envisage needing the income from her pension, it seems to 
me that Mrs Rs guaranteed and increasing DB scheme income  according to AFHs 
analysis around £7,100 as a full pension at age 62 - couldve played a useful part in 
providing her with security in retirement. Furthermore, the DB scheme offered a generous 
spouses pension of 66% of Mrs Rs pension. Given Mrs Rs husband had little by way of his 
own pension income provision, I think the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to her spouse if Mrs R predeceased him. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
Im mindful here too that, given the size of Mrs Rs estate, her son was due to inherit a 
significant amount of wealth as a lump sum in any event. Furthermore Mrs R was still 
relatively young, she was recorded as being in good health and her son was financially 
independent. So it strikes me that there was no pressing need here to transfer Mrs Rs 
pension to address succession planning and I dont think AFH shouldve encouraged Mrs R 
to prioritise the potential for higher or different death benefits through a personal pension 
over her security in retirement.But if Mrs R genuinely wanted to consider providing for her son, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, there were 
other ways to achieve things  things the recommendation report referred to yet still went on 
to recommended the transfer. For example Mrs R could simply save any unused pension 
income adding to the overall estate value, she could gift money to her son in her lifetime 
instead, or she could take out life assurance written in trust for the benefit of her son for an 
amount that either Mrs R wanted to leave him over and above that which he was already 
going to inherit, or to cover the likely inheritance tax liability. And given Mrs Rs disposable 
income, it seems to me that this wouldve been affordable.
Overall, I dont think Mrs R wanting to leave her pension fund to her son was a compelling 
reason to recommend she transfer out of her DB scheme. As the recommendation report set 
out, there were other viable alternatives to meet Mrs Rs need which didnt involve her taking 
on any additional investment risk  something AFH also said Mrs R didnt need to take. 
Flexibility
While not a key reason for recommending the transfer - AFH referred to flexibility as being a 
preference rather than a need  Ive also considered whether this was a suitable reason for 
recommending the transfer.
But I dont think Mrs R needed flexibility in retirement. For example while AFH referred to the 
fact that a higher tax-free lump sum could be taken through a personal pension, there was 
no apparent need for it. And neither was there a need to access her tax-free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds invested until a later date. While 
Mrs R had a mortgage and it was her intention to repay it when the fixed rate expired, she 
already had sufficient liquid assets to enable her to do this. I also cant see evidence that 
Mrs R had a strong need for variable income throughout her retirement based on her 
expenditure needs recorded at the time of the advice.
So Im satisfied that Mrs R did not have a need for flexibility that justified the transfer out of 
her DB scheme.
Summary
I accept that when Mrs R approached AFH she was motivated to transfer and its apparent 
that she was engaged with the advice process. And I dont doubt that control and potential 
for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mrs R. But as I said earlier, AFH wasnt there to just transact what 
Mrs R might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mrs R needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs R was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs R was unlikely to improve 
on her retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. In my view, Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme just for legacy planning reasons and the potential for higher or 
different death benefits  I dont think it was worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
her DB scheme to do so when there were viable alternatives available to her.
So, I think AFH shouldve advised Mrs R to remain in her DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs R would've gone ahead anyway, against AFHs 
advice, which it argues is the case. It says Mrs Rs disappointment that there was no 
insistent client route demonstrates that she was willing to put aside its advice and refuse its 
recommended course of action.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against AFHs advice (had AFH allowed it) or that she 
wouldve gone elsewhere to do so. I say this because, in my view, Mrs Rs disappointment 
with not being offered an insistent client categorisation isnt an indication that she willing to 
transfer regardless of the advice she was given. I think it was simply borne out of her 
disappointment at AFH declining to include her choice of investment fund and SIPP provider 
in its recommendation when she believed that it would, based on what she said she was told 
if she proceeded to full advice. 
While I accept Mrs R wanted to choose her own investment fund, this appears to have been 
driven by her unhappiness with the charges of the initial recommended fund and her 
misunderstanding that AFH would only be recommending one fund rather than presenting 
her with options from which she could choose. While AFH recorded that Mrs R had invested 
in the past, Im not persuaded Mrs R was an experienced equity-based investor. It seems to 
me that her investment experience was primarily based around property investment. Mrs R 
had a moderate attitude to risk and her DB scheme pension accounted for the majority of her 
private pension provision. So, if AFH had provided her with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Rs desire for wanting her son to benefit from her pension fund 
was so great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or 
in her best interests. If AFH had clearly explained, and ultimately recommended, that Mrs R 
could meet all of her objectives without any need to risk her guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mrs R would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think AFH should compensate Mrs R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mrs R in addition to the £100 already offered by AFH. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish AFH  which is the job of the regulator. 
But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mrs R. Taking 
everything into account, I think the unsuitable advice has caused her distress. So I think an 
award of £300 in total is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mrs R whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mrs R didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs R. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for AFHs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs R 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
AFH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although my understanding is that Mrs R is retired and she took some tax-free 
cash from her pension to repay her mortgage, it is my view that she did only did this by virtue 
of the fact that the transfer to a personal pension arrangement enabled her to do so  she 
had other means at her disposal to repay her mortgage if she chose to. So if things had 
happened as they should have and AFH had recommended that Mrs R remain in her DB 
scheme, I think its likely that Mrs R wouldve accessed her benefits at the schemes normal 
retirement age of 62, which is the earliest point she could access her benefits without 
reduction. So compensation should be based on a retirement age of 62.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Rs acceptance of the decision.
AFH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs R within 90 days of the date AFH receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AFH to pay Mrs R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AFH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
AFH should also pay Mrs R £300 in total - £200 in addition to the £100 AFH has already 
offered to pay - for the distress and inconvenience caused in this matter.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management to pay Mrs R the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I would additionally require
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management to pay 
Mrs R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000 I would only require 
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management to pay 
Mrs R any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that
AFH Independent Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management pays 
Mrs R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above 
on this balance to be paid to Mrs R.
If Mrs R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AFH Independent 
Financial Services Limited trading as AFH Wealth Management.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman