DRN-2898870
Complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly continued to 
apply interest, fees and charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
Mr K complained that Halifax had unfairly charged him overdraft fees when he was in 
financial difficulties. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax 
hadnt treated him fairly and reasonably and needed to rework Mr Ks account to remove the 
effect of all the interest fees and charges added to his overdraft from October 2019. 
Halifax accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Halifax agrees that it should refund any fees, which havent already been refunded, added to 
Mr Ks overdraft from when Mr K got into contact about his difficulties in July 2019. So it 
agreed to refund the fees added in October 2019 and November 2019. Mr K says this 
doesnt go far enough as Mr K initially got in contact with Halifax in April 2019. The notes 
suggest Halifaxs representative offered Mr K the option to being passed to its financial help 
team but this offer was declined on the basis Mr K said hed be back on his feet soon. 
I accept that its possible these notes dont necessarily reflect everything that was said at this 
time. But it does seem to me that its more likely not Mr K said that the returned direct debit 
was as a result of a temporary issue rather than ongoing financial difficulties. And this is 
supported by the fact that Mr Ks initial complaint refers to him telling Halifax he was 
experiencing financial difficulties in July 2019 rather than April 2019. Given this was the 
case, Im satisfied that Halifaxs response to Mr Ks contact in April 2019 was fair and 
reasonable.
Notwithstanding this, Ive, in any event, also looked at whether Halifax ought to have realised 
that Mr K may have been in financial difficulty before Mr K said he was. I know that Mr K has 
said that he was made redundant in 2018. Having considered this matter, I do think its fair to 
say that Mr K was using his overdraft at the time it was renewed in October 2018. However, 
Mr Ks account had been receiving credits and there wasnt anything to suggest that it ought 
to have suspected there was no reasonable prospect of Mr K repaying what he owed at that 
stage. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty in October 2018. But given what Mr Ks statements show and 
Mr K hadnt said anything about being made redundant at this stage, I dont think that Halifax 
unreasonably reached the conclusion there was a reasonable prospect of Mr K sustainably 
repaying his facility. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
renewing Mr Ks overdraft in October 2018. And I dont think Halifax unfairly charged Mr K in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty prior to July 2019.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, I leave it up to Mr K to decide whether 
he wishes to accept Halifaxs offer.
    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman