DRN-3020595
The complaint
Mr M says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M took out an 18-month instalment loan for £500 from Loans 2 Go on 15 February 2020. 
The monthly repayment was £114.28 and the total repayable was £2,057.04.
He says he was short of money and struggling. It wasnt clear how much interest he would 
have to pay. He wants Loans 2 Go to accept that as he has paid almost double what he 
borrowed the debt is settled.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said Loans 2 Go was 
wrong to lend to Mr M. The lender disagreed saying based on the loan value and the results 
from the credit search its checks were proportionate.
It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr M required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It verified his declared income using a third-
party tool that confirmed his minimum income. It increased his declared expenditure to 
ensure it was reasonable based on national statistics and it added a buffer. It checked     
Mr Ms credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr M had enough disposable income 
for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were initially proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its
repayments. But I think based on the information it gathered Loans 2 Go should have carried
out further checks to better understand Mr Ms finances. I say this as there was such a 
variance between Mr Ms declared income (£3,400) and expenditure (£400) and the results 
of its initial checks (£2,513.71 income and costs of £2,059.33). However, I wont comment 
further on this as even based on the information it gathered I dont think Loans 2 Go made a 
fair lending decision. Ill explain why. 
The credit check Loans 2 Go completed showed Mr M had debts of £15,860 - £2,141 of this 
was on payday loans, two of which were in arrears. Mr M wasnt taking out this loan to settle 
any of his existing debt. Based on his recent pattern of borrowing I think it was most likely   
Mr M was trapped in a high-cost cycle of borrowing to repay. 
So, irrespective of what the actual income and expense figures were I think the lender ought 
to have realised there was a high risk of Mr M not being able to sustainably repay the loan  
that is without borrowing to repay or suffering some other adverse financial consequence. 
He had already started to not to be able to meet his existing commitments. And it needed to 
consider these factors to meet its regulatory obligations, not just the pounds and pence 
affordability. It could also see Mr M was already spending a significant percentage of his 
income (whether calculated based on his verified minimum income, or his declared income) 
on servicing his debt. This ought to have been another indicator that the loan was most likely 
not sustainably affordable for Mr M.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr M.
I havent found any evidence Loans 2 Go acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr M in 
some other way. I know Mr M is unhappy with the level of interest he was charged. I accept 
it was high, but Mr M had to actively engage in the loan application process, so I think its 
likely that he was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. It was clearly set out on the loan agreement. And I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated     
Mr M unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event, the 
interest and charges will be refunded as Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr M
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account leaves an outstanding capital balance the parties
should work together to agree a repayment plan that is fair and affordable for Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman