DRN-3697967
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that The Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) made an entry about them on 
the National Hunter database in connection with a joint mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage with RBS in August 2021. RBS declined the application 
in September 2021 and left an inconsistency marker on the National Hunter database. The 
National Hunter database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which allows 
financial services providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
RBS said it hadnt done anything wrong, and that it wasnt prepared to remove the markers. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said RBS applied the markers because it had 
concerns about the annual income Mr A had stated on his mortgage application. He said that 
the application showed that Mr As income had increased significantly shortly before theyd 
made the mortgage application. His income had increased from around £797 per month to 
around £3,851 per month August 2021. Mr A worked for a limited company (E) that Mrs A 
is a director of. 
Our investigator could see that Mr and Mrs A had provided RBS with payslips, an HMRC 
income statement and bank statements in connection with the mortgage application.
Mrs A told our investigator that Mr A been working part time for E before making the 
application. Thats because Mr A needed look after their children during the Covid-19 
pandemic. But hed started working full time in August 2021 as childcare became more 
available. Mr and Mrs A have provided us with information from their accountant to support 
what theyve told us.
Later Mrs A provided our investigator with an HMRC income statement which showed that 
Mr As income ranged from £3,666 - £3,851 between August 2021 and December 2021. His 
salary dropped down to £3,666 in November and December 2021. Mrs A said Mr A stopped 
working for E at the end of January 2022. She says he started a new job with another 
business and earned £3,750 a month from March 2022. 
Our investigator said that he thought RBS had reasonable grounds to add markers to the 
National Hunter database fraud prevention database. He thought it had reasonable grounds 
to suspect it had received false information in support of an application. So he didnt 
recommend that RBS removed the markers.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. Mrs A says that before and after they 
applied for the mortgage with RBS they applied for mortgages with other lenders. Those 
mortgage applications were also declined and markers were applied against their names on 
cross-industry fraud prevention databases. Mr and Mrs A have complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about the markers recorded in connection with all those mortgage 
applications.
Mrs A says the same financial information was provided to all the financial businesses. 
However, another of our investigators upheld their complaints in relation to the markers 
recorded by two lenders. In those complaints the investigator said that while he thought the 
relevant businesses had reasonable grounds to suspect that theyd received false 
information in support of a mortgage application, Mr and Mrs A had gone on to provide 
evidence to counter any inconsistencies in their income. So he thought that the markers 
should be removed and that they were compensated for what happened. 
Mr and Mrs A thought that the investigator in this case should reach a similar conclusion. 
Mrs A has also said:
since Mr As income increased in August 2021 he continued to earn what was 
declared and his income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022. So 
Mrs A says there is no on-going risk of potential fraud. Mrs A thinks the markers 
should be removed in line with the reduction of potential threat.  
she doesnt think RBS had enough evidence to apply the markers. She says she 
contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there was 
enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could 
be confidently reported to the police.
Mrs A has also told us about the negative impact of the markers on her and Mr A. She has 
also said that she and Mr A didnt need to rely on Mr As income to be eligible for the 
mortgage so they had no reason to be dishonest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs A applied for the mortgage in 2021 RBS considered the information and 
evidence it received in connection with mortgage application and carried out underwriting 
checks to try to confirm the accuracy of what it was told and to decide whether it wanted to 
lend. I think its worth saying here that there was no obligation on RBS to lend money to Mr 
and Mrs A. It wasnt obliged to give reasons for a refusing to do so either. 
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, RBS had to have reasonable 
grounds for doing so. It didnt have to disclose the detail of those reasons to Mr and Mrs A.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments here very carefully, I can understand 
why RBS had concerns about the information it had been given in connection with the 
mortgage application. RBS didnt think the evidence provided demonstrated that Mr A 
earned what he had declared in the mortgage application. Ive looked at the information Mr 
and Mrs A provided and can understand why RBS thought that. Mrs A has told us that Mr 
As income was paid into their joint bank account. However, I can see that the payments  
made into Mr and Mrs As joint bank account dont match the information E disclosed in the 
mortgage application about Mr As salary.
In the circumstances, I dont think RBS concerns were unreasonable. So, I cant say it acted 
unreasonably in recording the markers on the National Hunter database. 
For completeness Im conscious that in another one of Mr and Mrs As complaints with the Financial Ombudsman Service Mrs A has said that Mr As salary was paid into the joint bank 
account along with dividends she was owed from E, in one combined payment. I think thats 
an unusual way for a company to pay an employees salary and that it would have been very 
difficult for RBS to verify that from the information they provided.
Mrs A has said that she doesnt think RBS had enough evidence to apply the markers. She 
says she contacted Action Fraud and the police and was told that they didnt think there was 
enough evidence to prove a crime had been committed or even that this case could be 
confidently reported to the police.
I appreciate what Mrs A has told us, but its not clear what Mrs A said exactly, or whether 
those bodies were aware of all the evidence that Ive been provided with when they said 
what Mrs A says they did. 
The next question I need to consider is whether RBS should remove the markers now. Mrs A 
thinks they should be removed. She says thats because she and Mr A didnt commit fraud, 
and because the investigator that considered two of her other complaints said the relevant 
lenders should remove the markers theyd applied and compensate Mr and Mrs A because 
he thought that theyd provided him with evidence to counter any inconsistencies about their 
income in the relevant mortgage applications. Mrs A says the same information was 
provided to all the relevant lenders, so the markers RBS applied should be removed too.
I think its worth saying here that Im not bound by the conclusion the investigator reached in 
those complaints. However, Ive considered those complaints, as well as all of Mr and Mrs 
As other complaints against the other lenders Ive referred to in this decision. I have a wide 
investigative remit. So my role is to take all the available evidence into account when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this complaint. And I think its important to note that 
since those complaints were considered by the investigator, more information and context  
including from the other complaints that have been brought  has become available.  
Mr As income increased substantially in August 2021. Mrs A has told us thats because he 
started working full time with E in August 2021 after working part time before this. She says 
Mr A continued to earn what was declared in the mortgage application and that Mr As 
income increased again when he changed jobs in March 2022. 
Ive considered the information Mr and Mrs A have provided about Mr As income in this 
complaint. The income statements provided show that Mr A worked for E until December 
2021. Mrs A has recently told us that Mr A actually worked with E until the end of January 
2022. Ive considered that information alongside the information Mr and Mrs A provided in 
connection with their other complaints and the investigations the relevant lenders carried out 
in those complaints. Im conscious that when the other lenders checked the information 
provided to them discrepancies were found. And Ive also noted inconsistencies between the 
information Mr and Mrs A gave to the different lenders. In the circumstances I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to require RBS to remove the markers. I appreciate that 
Mrs A has said that they didnt need to rely on Mr As income to get the mortgage. But that 
doesnt change what Ive said above. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs A have told us that the impact of the markers on them and 
their strength of feeling about this matter. However, I dont think RBS acted unreasonably in 
recording entries on the National Hunter database. Nor do I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require RBS to remove the markers now or to compensate Mr and Mrs 
A for what happened.
I recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A. But based on what 
Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require RBS to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman