DRN-4364394
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to provide the usual 
online access to his personal pension plan (PPP) for several months. And that functionality 
through the online application (app) is poor. He wants compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
What happened
Mr M says he regularly checked the value and performance of his PPP via the app and 
occasionally made fund switches through it. He says there were problems accessing 
information about his plan which lasted several months. This was despite multiple calls and 
emails with Scottish Widows and his employers pension administrator seeking to resolve the 
issue. He says he was given conflicting explanations of the issue and various solutions were 
suggested that didnt work before the problem was resolved in March 2023. 
Mr M complained to Scottish Widows about the problems, the time taken to resolve them, 
and about the lack of functionality of the app itself. It upheld his complaint about the 
problems accessing the system and paid him £75 for the inconvenience caused. Which was 
caused by it taking longer than expected to move some policies over to a new online 
system.  It said it would refer his comments about functionality to the relevant team for 
consideration.
  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He said in total, there had been around 100 
emails, calls and Teams meetings trying to get to the bottom of the problem. So,  the £75 
compensation was derisory compared to the overall inconvenience caused. He said 
Scottish Widows hadnt provided notice it was making changes to IT systems which might 
cause issues and should have done so.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said the provision of online access to Mr Ms policy details wasnt something 
Scottish Widows needed to provide under the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the plan. And 
other contact options were available to him during the time the app wasnt available. She 
said she agreed Mr M had been inconvenienced but thought the £75 it had paid was fair and 
in keeping with what our service would award in similar circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said our investigator hadnt considered Scottish Widows failure to 
provide advance notice of its IT update and it should have done so. And he would have 
contacted it by other means had he been made aware of the issue. He said the £75 
compensation was derisory and our service was washing over the matter giving Scottish 
Widows no incentive to engage with its customers properly. Our investigator said our service 
wasnt there to penalise firms and looked at the overall impact of any error in awarding 
compensation. 
Mr M said Scottish Widows had been disingenuous in the information it provided our 
service. As he disputed he hadnt suffered any financial loss as it had claimed. Because hed 
not been able to see fund values and had a history of making fund switches. He said its 
incompetence was not acceptable in any organisation. He said further compensations 
should be paid for the;
inability to communicate, manage a process, resolve IT issues, address evident 
errors and an inability to consider appropriate customer care.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The correspondence between Scottish Widows and Mr M suggests it had some difficulty 
initially identifying what the problem was, and I understand that would be frustrating. And I 
agree with Mr M that it would make good sense for Scottish Widows to have flagged there 
was an IT change planned which might impact some customers for a period. 
However, our service doesnt regulate financial businesses and it isnt my role to tell Scottish 
Widows to change its administration procedures, but I can consider whether these have 
resulted in an unfair outcome and award compensation if appropriate. But I also need to 
treat both sides fairly and to do that I need to consider what the T&Cs of the contract 
between Mr M and Scottish Widows say. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that provision of online services isnt something 
Scottish Widows is contractually obliged to provide. The policy provisions and Key Features 
document provided when the PPP was set up set out the T&Cs. They are silent about online 
access, despite only dating from 2019. These documents provide a postal address and a 
telephone number for queries about the plan, including valuations. And that only the unit 
prices of the various funds offered will be available online. They also say that an annual 
valuation statement would be sent, which from the evidence seems to have been provided. 
What this means is that whilst I agree explaining and resolving the problem did take some 
time, under the terms of the contract, Scottish Widows provided what it was required to. So, 
whilst there was inconvenience for Mr M unfortunately it is relatively minor when put in that 
context because those alternative contact methods, specifically provided for in the T&Cs 
were available to him. Had he wanted to switch, he could have done so by calling or writing. 
So, I think Scottish Widows has already paid reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
The same principle applies in respect of Mr Ms complaint about poor functionality of the 
app, and his further point that some features he formally made use of are no longer available 
post the IT update. Scottish Widows and other providers might offer other pension plans with 
the sort of features and service Mr M wants. But for this plan, there is no obligation on 
Scottish Widows to provide any more than is set out in the documents Ive referred to above. 
So, for the reasons given above I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint and Scottish Widows 
neednt do any more than it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman