DRN-1644870
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds refusal to meet his claim 
under a mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss policy with Assurant covers the loss, theft or accidental damage of his phone. He 
contacted Assurant on 19 August 2019 and told it he had lost his phone while travelling 
home on public transport the day before. Mr S also completed a claim form. 
Mr S told Assurant that his SIM card was in the phone when it was lost. Assurant says the 
phone service provider has confirmed that the SIM card was activated in a different phone  
and used to make calls at around the time Mr S says his phone with the SIM card were lost. 
Assurant says the numbers called were numbers that have been previously called by Mr S.
Assurant says this means the loss did not happen as Mr S claimed and he had given false 
information. It therefore refused the claim. 
Mr S says Assurant didnt understand him as English is not his first language. In his 
complaint form to us Mr S says that the day of the loss he had tried different SIM cards in his 
phone to see if it was unlocked, as he could get cheaper calls abroad using a different SIM 
from the one he uses in the UK. Mr S says he then lost the phone at around 6.30pm. He has 
been borrowing a phone from a friend since then and has still been paying the contract for 
his insured phone and the insurance premium. Mr S wants a replacement phone. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, he did not think Assurant had acted unfairly 
given the evidence provided. Mr S does not accept the investigators assessment, so the 
matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said his original SIM card was in the phone when it was lost. He confirmed this again 
during a call on 3 September 2019 when Assurant told him it would not be meeting the 
claim. Mr S also said he had received a replacement SIM card a few days after the claim 
was reported and started using this around 21 August 2019. Mr S spoke to two 
representatives at Assurant that day but did not say he had swapped SIM cards on the day 
of the loss or give any other explanation such as he put in the complaint form to us during 
that call. 
The evidence provided from the phone service provider shows that the SIM card was placed 
into another phone at 6.30pm on 18 August 2019, which is exactly the time Mr S says the 
loss happened. That phone and SIM card was used to make calls later that evening and the 
next day.  
Mr S says he used a friends phone immediately after he discovered hed lost his phone and 
called his insured phone, someone answered and he spoke to them. However, the calls 
made after the loss (using Mr Ss SIM card) are all to other numbers Mr S has previously 
called apart from one, which is recorded as lasting only two seconds.  I dont think any 
conversation could have taken place during that that call. 
As the numbers called (apart from one) been called regularly by Mr S using the original 
phone, Im satisfied it is likely that he made these calls. The evidence shows that SIM was 
then taken out the next day. 
Even if Mr S did use a friends phone, this does not explain why Mr S said at the time of 
making the claim, that the SIM card was in the phone and he only started using a different 
SIM when he received a replacement from his phone service provider a few days after the 
loss. 
There is also evidence of other SIM cards being used in the insured phone some weeks 
prior to the loss (so he would have known this was possible) but apparently not on the day of 
the loss. This does not tally with the explanation Mr S has given in his complaint form to us. 
Mr S suggests the discrepancies are due to language difficulties but I am not persuaded this 
is the case. I have listened to the call recording and considered what else Mr S has provided 
to us. He appears to have understood what was being put to him. The explanation in the 
complaint form to us is not supported by the evidence from the service provider.  
Having considered everything, I am satisfied that Assurant has justified concerns about the 
information provided by Mr S about the loss and is entitled to refuse the claim.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman