DRN-2952742
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has a flaw on their website 
which showed him an option to encash his winnings, but it encashed some of his premium 
bonds instead. He also complains of poor customer service.
What happened
Mr P won a prize from a winning premium bond number from NS&I. He says he looked on 
their website to find out how much he won. Mr P says the website showed a prize of £25 and 
an option to cash in. Mr P says he withdrew the winnings, but he was surprised that his 
premium bond holdings reduced by £25.
Mr P contacted NS&I. They explained that Mr P had cashed in £25 of his premium bond 
holdings and not his £25 prize, as his winnings are automatically paid to his nominated 
account. Mr P raised a complaint with the call handler. He said that there was a fault with the 
website and it appeared that he was cashing in his prize. He did not wish to cash in his 
premium bond holdings.
NS&I said they regularly review their processes in light of customer feedback but would not 
be upholding Mr Ps complaint. Mr P contacted NS&I again as he was expecting 
compensation to be paid. He says he was told he would receive a phone call from the 
complaint handler but when he didnt receive a call within a week, he contacted NS&I again.
Mr P was able to speak to the complaint handler who explained to him that it was impossible 
to cash in prizes on their website and that he had withdrawn £25 from his premium bond 
holdings. The handler explained that Mr P could escalate his complaint to our service. Mr P 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said the How we pay prizes section of 
the Premium Bonds brochure states You can ask us to automatically reinvest any prizes 
into more Bonds or we can pay prizes into your nominated account. The Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQ) section of the business website also states, You can choose to have your 
prizes paid directly to your bank account (or NS&I Direct Saver) or reinvested into more 
Bonds. The business has confirmed they dont have an option for prizes to be claimed on 
the website.
Our investigator said in regards to poor customer service Mr P said he had, the NS&I call 
handlers tried to explain how Mr Ps prize would be paid and that there wasnt a way to claim 
prizes through the website. Our investigator said he understood Mr P didnt receive an 
expected call back but the agent who Mr P spoke about this on 15 January 2021 advised he 
might need to wait until around 25 January 2021. Mr P called back on 22 January 2021 and 
the complaint handler clarified their response had already been provided in a letter on 12 
January 2021.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said if the prize he won is 
automatically credited into his account then why was £25 showing when he logged into his 
account. He said the website clearly showed "withdraw £25 won". 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of points to both NS&I and this service and Ive listened to, 
considered and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as 
a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr P has told our investigator, that the NS&I website clearly showed 
withdraw £25 won. I understand the screenshot Mr P sent our service is the display after 
he had withdrawn the funds. NS&I confirmed to Mr P it was impossible to withdraw winnings 
on the website. So Ive listened to what Mr P told NS&I on the same day he processed the 
withdrawal. Mr P says multiple times on the calls Ive listened to that he cashed in. On the 
original call he had with NS&I he says I have logged into my account and Im 100% sure it 
gave me an option to click cash in, it is underlined. I cashed in and then it asked me for my 
nominated account, (it) was already there and I did that. 
So what Im persuaded has happened is that Mr P has thought that the cash in option is for 
his winnings and thats what hes thought hes processed. But Im not persuaded that it said 
for him to withdraw £25 won or cash in £25 won as NS&I confirmed that he was unable to 
withdraw prizes online. Our investigator has also mentioned to Mr P that the premium bonds 
brochure and FAQ part of NS&Is website shows the options available to receive his prizes 
and this doesnt state he can cash in his winnings online. So the only section which shows 
cash in on the website and is underlined relates to his overall holdings and not any prizes 
he has won.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about why £25 was showing when he logged into his 
account if this was to be paid out automatically. Im persuaded that this is for information 
only as the email he received informing him hes won a prize does not state the prize hes 
won. The screenshot Mr P provided our service after he cashed in £25 of his premium 
bonds, still states Januarys draw £25 won. So Im persuaded this is for information only.
NS&I have provided a screenshot to show that Mr P set up his nominated account to receive 
prizes into in October 2020, three months before he won his prize. Mr P acknowledged on 
his call to NS&I that he had already set up his nominated account. So Im satisfied that his 
prizes would be paid into his nominated account and would not need to have been encashed 
online, which NS&I said they wouldnt give him this option to do so anyway.
Ive thought about the poor customer service Mr P has said hes had. Im satisfied from the 
calls Ive listened to that the call handlers are pleasant and tried to assist Mr P with the 
situation. I know Mr P values his time and has spent what he feels is a long time on the 
phone, but Im persuaded the time he was on the phone was reasonable. On the second call 
there is confusion from the call handler whether Mr P would get a call back from the 
complaint handler or not as initially hes told he would get a call from next Monday. But the 
call handler doesnt confirm when this exactly would be. But he tells Mr P to call back the 
following week if he hadnt had a call by then. So Im not persuaded he was guaranteed to 
receive a call back on this issue with the call handler informing Mr P when to call them back 
if he hadnt heard anything.  
I know Mr P feels strongly about the layout of the NS&I website. As our investigator 
explained to Mr P, its not the role of this service to say how a business should run their processes. So I cant tell NS&I to change their website design. But I can see from NS&Is 
response to Mr Ps complaint that they have taken his feedback on board.
Im satisfied that Mr P didnt want to cash in any of his NS&I holdings and genuinely 
thought he was withdrawing his prize. But Im persuaded that NS&I have made no error by 
processing Mr Ps cash in in line with his instructions, for the reasons Ive already given. It 
follows I wont be asking NS&I to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman