DRN-4321372
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim under a 
home insurance policy.
Mr T is represented in this complaint by Mrs T.
What happened
Mr T made a claim when he had a water leak in his bathroom. Ageas accepted the claim and 
appointed contractors. Mr T and his wife were told they would need to move to alternative 
accommodation when the claim progressed further. A few weeks later, Mrs T spoke to 
Ageas to explain that Mr Ts wife was seriously ill. Ageas agreed to move Mr T and his wife 
to alternative accommodation urgently.
Mrs T continued to chase for progress on the claim, as there were delays in identifying and 
then dealing with asbestos, ordering items and refitting the bathroom and the flooring. Mrs T 
told Ageas that Mr Ts wife wanted to return home before she died. Mr Ts wife died before 
she could return home.
Mrs T complained. When Ageas replied, it accepted there had been some 
miscommunication between contractors that had delayed the asbestos work. It 
acknowledged that in early December its contractors were aware Mr Ts wife was in the last 
stages of her life and wanted to return home and the timescales for this. It said Mr T was 
having other repairs carried out at the same time, which added to the time the works took. 
Items also had to be ordered, including radiator brackets and a replacement toilet that had 
been damaged when it was removed. It said it had paid for additional accommodation until 
the toilet had been replaced. It said lead times and the availability of its contractors had 
caused problems, but this was outside of its control. It offered £250 compensation for the 
impact and upset and inconvenience caused.
When Mrs T complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there 
had been avoidable delays and that the claim could have been dealt with more sensitively. 
He said Ageas should pay a total of £350 compensation.
As Mrs T didnt agree this was enough compensation for Mr T, the complaint was referred to 
me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I would like to express my condolences for Mr T and Mrs Ts loss. I appreciate that this must 
have been a difficult time for Mr T and his family.
Ive looked at the claim and complaint itself. About six weeks after the claim was first 
opened, both Ageas and its contractor were aware Mr Ts wife was very unwell. This was 
recorded as one of the reasons for ensuring Mr T and his wife moved to suitable alternative 
accommodation. 
The strip out works started not long after this, followed by the drying process. Looking at the 
claim and complaint, Ageas seemed to accept it didnt promptly identify there was asbestos 
at the property or progress dealing with it when it was found. From what Ive seen, Mrs T had 
to chase on a few occasions to get the asbestos dealt with. There seemed to be some poor 
communication between contractors and delays in signing off that the work could start. This 
impacted the time it took for the claim to progress.
When Ageas replied to the complaint, it explained that towards the beginning of December 
the contractor was aware Mr Ts wife was terminally ill. The letter also accepted there had 
been delays due to issues such as the asbestos, radiator brackets being accidentally thrown 
away that took weeks to replace and damage to the toilet. It also said the contractors had 
assured them the work would be completed before Christmas and that the Christmas period 
affected contractor availability. 
Although all of this might be factually correct, I think it suggests the claim and response to 
the complaint could have been more sensitively handled. For example, although the 
complaint response acknowledged that Mr Ts wife had died, it seemed to emphasise things 
it said were outside of the contractors control. 
Ageas also seemed to accept that there were some avoidable events, such as the delays 
with dealing with the asbestos, but not that this seemed to contribute to the claim continuing 
over the Christmas period. Ageas also explained that it had extended the stay in the 
alternative accommodation while some of the issues were sorted out, which seems 
reasonable if a property isnt habitable, but this happened in the context of Mr Ts wife then 
not being able to return home before she died. So, I dont think this was a particularly 
reassuring or sensitive way to demonstrate that Mr Ts circumstances, and the impact on 
him, had been considered.
So, Ive thought about compensation. Im aware Mrs Ts involvement was likely to have 
protected Mr T and his wife from some of the issues around the delays on the claim at what 
was, understandably, a very difficult time. Im also mindful that compensation can only go 
some way to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused in circumstances such as 
this. However, having considered what happened, I currently think a total of £600 
compensation, which includes the £250 Ageas previously offered, more fairly reflects the 
impact on Mr T. So, I currently intend to say Ageas should pay this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 21 September 2023.
Both Mrs T and Ageas replied before that date and confirmed they had no further comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
Having looked at this complaint again, I havent found any reason to change my view on how 
I think this complaint should be resolved.
Putting things right
Ageas should pay Mr T a total of £600 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr T a total of £600 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman