DRN-4402324
The complaint
Miss W complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible to lend 
to her.
What happened
Miss W had two loans from Halifax in January 2019 and January 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 15 Jan 2019 £9,500 27m £379.98  1 April 2021 With loan 2
2 17 Jan 2020 £14,215.56 48m £392.01 1 Jan 2024 3 Jan 2023
Miss W says that Halifax did not ask her about all her monthly expenditure when she applied 
for the loans. She says that even though she used the money to consolidate other credit, 
she couldnt afford her living expenses without going further into debt. Miss W adds that her 
rent increased during that time and that her second loan had a higher interest rate. She says 
Halifax did not ask for proof of her financial situation, and she found its customer service to 
be lacking. Miss W explains that she was able to repay her loan by transferring it to an 
interest free credit card.
Halifax says it asked Miss W about her income and housing costs and used information from 
credit reference agencies to estimate existing credit commitments. It says it used Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data for her other living costs, and found the loans were affordable 
for Miss W.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he wasnt 
satisfied that Halifax had carried out proportionate checks, he considered that, had it done 
so, its likely it would have found nothing to indicate the repayments were unsustainable.
Miss W responded to say, in summary, that making the loan repayments on the first loan left 
her short and she had to spend again on her cards which proved the loan was unaffordable. 
She added that Halifax agreed to lend to her even though it believed shed only have £2 of 
disposable income each month. Miss W says Halifax also let her increase her overdraft 
during the lending and the total credit she had with them was more than her annual salary.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss W and to Halifax on 9 October 2023. Ive summarised 
my findings below:
For loan 1 I wasnt satisfied that Halifaxs affordability checks went far enough, but 
found that proportionate checks were likely to have found the repayments were 
sustainable for Miss W;
Again, I wasnt satisfied that Halifaxs affordability checks went far enough in the 
circumstances of loan 2 because:
oThe loan was for a term of 48 months and Halifax needed to be satisfied the 
repayments were sustainable for that period;
oI couldnt see that Halifax verified Miss Ws declared income and housing 
costs, even though it had access to her bank statements;
oHalifax could see that she had built up a combined balance of around £4,000 
on two of its own credit cards since the previous loan;
oMiss W had taken repayment holidays for loan 1 payments that were 
scheduled in September 2019 and December 2019, and applied for a third 
one in January 2020 shortly before loan 2 was approved;
oHalifax estimated her expenditure at £374 using ONS data;
oMiss W would be committed to paying over a third of her declared income on 
credit;
oMiss W was borrowing a relatively large amount within a year of loan 1 and 
the amount of debt that had built up again could have been an indication that 
she was struggling to afford the existing loan repayments;
So I considered Halifax should have used Miss Ws bank statements, to which it had 
access, in order to carry out proportionate checks. Had it done so, it would have seen 
that:
oMiss Ws income averaged about £1,400 per month in the lead up to the loan;
oMiss W paid £100 for rent, about £200 for insurances, gym membership and 
her phone and around £200 on other expenditure each month including food 
and petrol;
oMiss W was repaying two loans at a combined monthly repayment of £281;
In summary, I was satisfied that proportionate checks would have shown Miss W would have 
had little or no disposable income after the loan repayment and that it was irresponsible to 
have approved the loan, given what Halifax should have known about Miss Ws financial 
circumstances.
Both Miss W and Halifax responded to accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
should:Add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of having been given 
loan 2. The repayments Miss W made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Miss W having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to deduct tax from this interest. Halifax should
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman