DRN-3085870
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the charges hes been asked to pay when he returned a car after his 
hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd (LAL) had ended. He feels these are unfair and 
wants them removed.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr L hired a new car through a hire agreement with LAL. He agreed an annual 
maximum contracted mileage of 15,000. Mr L put down an advanced payment of £2,006.58 
to be followed by 47 monthly hire payments of £334.43.
 
In April 2021, when Mr Ls agreement was nearly finished, he arranged to end it early. The 
car was collected by LAL. But Mr L then received an invoice for just over £1,000. This was 
for items of damage to the car. Mr L wasnt happy with this. He told us that when the car was 
collected it was inspected. He said he was told at the time the car was in great condition and 
the items noted were just the usual wear and tear for a four-year-old car.
 
Mr L complained to LAL. He pointed out that hed covered far less miles than allowed under 
the agreement. LAL rejected his complaint. It said the car had been assessed against the 
guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) and the 
damages on the invoice fell outside these. LAL also said there was no monetary return for 
not exceeding the contractual mileage. 
Mr L didnt accept this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked into by 
one of our investigators. Briefly, our investigator said there was nothing in the hire 
agreement that allowed for any reduction if the actual mileage was less than was allowed. 
She also thought that it was fair for LAL to charge for seven of the eight items listed on its 
invoice. But our investigator didnt think the evidence showed it was fair to charge Mr L for a 
dent to the right-hand front door. She said LAL needed to remove the £174 charge for this.
 
LAL didnt accept this. It said the dent to the right-hand front door was visible on the video it 
provided. Our investigator looked at the video again but still didnt agree this item was 
chargeable. LAL didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
 
The case was passed to me and I reviewed all the available evidence and arguments. 
Having done so, I also didnt think it was fair and reasonable for LAL to charge for the 
disputed damage. In an effort to resolve this case informally I asked our investigator to share 
my thoughts with both LAL and Mr L  that is, the charge of £174 should be waived.
 
In reply, Mr L questioned why LAL hadnt told him he could amend the mileage on his 
agreement up to six months before it ended. He also repeated that he thought the other 
charges were pretty excessive. But after speaking to our investigator Mr L was happy to 
close his complaint if the £174 charge was removed.
 
LAL replied saying it would be prepared to remove the £174 charge. But it maintained it 
hadnt done anything wrong, so if the complaint was going to be upheld in Mr Ls favour, LAL 
wanted a decision from an ombudsman. As our investigator had upheld the complaint in 
favour of Mr L, the case has once again passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at this case afresh, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, 
largely for the same reasons. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised 
this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the 
matter here: are the charges LAL is asking Mr L to pay fair and reasonable?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Ive looked at Mr Ls agreement with LAL that he signed on 9 April 2017. The terms of this 
set out that Mr L is liable for any damage not caused by fair wear and tear. When reaching 
my decision, one of the things Im required to consider is relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant industry guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the 
trade body, the BVRLA.
 
I can see LAL has confirmed Mr Ls car was assessed in line with these guidelines, and that 
its age and mileage was taken into account during this inspection. I can also see the invoice 
LAL sent to Mr L listed eight separate items of damage. Both Mr L and LAL are fully aware of 
the details of each item, so I wont list them all again here.
 
Ive looked at the photographic and video evidence for all eight items and compared these to 
the BVRLA guidelines. Ive also considered all the points LAL have supplied to us about the 
damage. Having done so, Im satisfied that seven of the eight items of damage do exceed 
the BVRLA guidelines on what is fair wear and tear. It follows that Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for LAL to charge for these.
 
The remaining item is listed as dent to the right-hand front door. LAL has invoiced Mr L £174 
for this. The BVRLA guidelines say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable as 
long as there are no more than two dents on each panel and the paint surface isnt broken.
 
As above, Ive looked at all the available evidence and its not clear to me that there is 
damage to the right-hand front door that exceeds the guidelines on fair wear and tear. So Im 
not satisfied its fair and reasonable for LAL to charge Mr L for this  it should remove the 
£174 charge from the invoice.
 
I would expect LAL to agree an affordable repayment plan for the remaining outstanding 
charges. If Mr L is experiencing any financial difficulties, I would also expect LAL to treat him 
both positively and sympathetically. 
 
Putting things right
In summary, after taking all the above into consideration, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for LAL to charge Mr L for seven of the eight items of damage hes been invoiced for. But 
LAL should remove the £174 charge for the dent to the right-hand front door as, for the 
reasons given, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable to charge him for this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should remove the £174 charge from the 
damage invoice its asking Mr L to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman