DRN-3972571
The complaint
Mrs S, as trustee, complains on behalf of her fathers estate  S Trust (name anonymised) 
 referred to as the trust, about ReAssure Life Limited, referred to as ReAssure or the 
business.  
In summary, shes concerned about the deductions made by the business when it paid out 
the proceeds from a life cover policy. It has also failed to make clear the reasons for this. 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said it did everything that was 
required and hasnt done anything wrong by deducting tax. It offered the trust £150 
compensation for the delays in responding. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes unable to say that the business did anything wrong with regards to the 
deduction. He has seen no evidence that the business used inaccurate calculations. 
Our service isnt a forensic accounting service or tax specialist. Based on the 
information provided, we decide whether or not the business has behaved 
unreasonably and in this instance he cant say that it has. 
The terms and conditions explain that capital gains tax deduction will be made. They 
also made clear that the amount shall not in any event exceed the amount of tax to 
which the company will be liable. 
Where a deduction is made, hed expect a business to fully explain the reasoning 
behind this and provide a calculation to support of this. 
Despite her assertions, Mrs S hasnt herself provided evidence as to why the 
calculation is wrong. 
The business has paid £150 compensation for the delays in responding to the estate 
which is broadly fair and reasonable. 
In the circumstances, its not asking the business to do anything differently.   
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said: 
The business hasnt provided calculations to show its own liabilities, so she cant be 
sure if the deductions have been correct  its a matter between the business and 
HM Revenue and Customs. Thats why shes not been able to show that the 
deduction hasnt been more than the tax liability. 
The crux of the issue is:
oComputation of the amount deducted by the business doesnt allow for reliefs 
that are applied when determining its tax relief to HMRC. 
oThe above fails the test stated in the terms and conditions, namely the 
deduction will be no more than the companys tax liability, unless the 
company can attest that its tax liability does not enjoy any reliefs against the 
gain.
no more than was a marketing point that the tax liability could be less than the tax 
on the gain. The business continued to ignore the point about reliefs against the gain. 
In its final response letter, dated 18 November 2022, the business tried to suggest 
that it was correct the terms and conditions dont mention reliefs and losses, only the 
tax chargeable gain. But this is incorrect, the terms and conditions make clear that 
the deduction from the policy will be no more than the companys tax liability.  
Just because the business has been generous on the indexation relief does not 
mean that the no more than test as been met. 
In terms of the evidence, the business should provide evidence that it has complied 
with its terms and conditions. 
If the business is obliged to carry out the no more than test, it should do.  
Given the terms and conditions, the business should have appropriate ways to meet 
that undertaken. 
Whilst theres no evidence of what Mrs Ss father was told, tax efficiency of the policy 
wouldve been a selling point. And an expectation that the relief enjoyed by a 
business would be passed on to the customer.
The business hasnt fulfilled its undertakings given years ago and/or hasnt got the 
correct processes in order to make the right assessment.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, I cant safely say that 
the deduction was wrong.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mrs S has about this matter. Shes provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs S, and the business, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the deduction has been unwarranted or beyond what the business should deduct. I note 
Mrs S says she cant prove the business hasnt deducted more than it should 
because she doesnt have information about the businesss own tax liability. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think the business is obliged to provide that information, 
and even if it did, Im not sure it would make much sense to an ordinary person in 
relation to this case. 
I note Mrs S concedes that the businesss tax computation would be a complex 
computation at a total company level. This has always been the case, particularly 
well before the policy was issued. That aside, I note Mrs S isnt saying that the 
business wasnt entitled to deduct tax, just that shes not sure that the correct 
amount has been deducted. But she hasnt provided any information to demonstrate 
what the business has wrong. In any case, its not for me to audit or take apart the 
calculations in order to work out if the business has done anything wrong. Thats not 
my role.
Whilst Im sorry she isnt satisfied by the businesss answer, I do think  even without 
providing information about its own tax liabilities  it has provided an explanation 
about what it did and why. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to 
say that the business has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate what Mrs S says about the terms and conditions and why the business is 
in breach of the specific term in question relating to its own liabilities and reliefs. I 
understand her point that (in theory) the tax on the liability could be less than the tax 
on the gain, but Ive no reason to say that the business hasnt behaved reasonably in 
this instance. 
I also appreciate Mrs S says the terms and conditions make clear that the deduction 
from the policy will be no more than the companys tax liability. Be that as it may, 
despite her concerns, Ive seen no evidence that it was in this instance and therefore 
I cant say that the business has done anything wrong. Despite what Mrs S says, Im 
aware that the business is likely to have been generous with the indexation relief.
As I mentioned above, Im aware that other than expressing her concerns, Mrs S also 
hasnt provided evidence of why the calculation is incorrect. In the circumstances, its 
not for us to look through and figure out whether or not the business has done 
something wrong, in this case in relation to its deduction.  
I appreciate Mrs S, on behalf of the trust, will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what it wants to hear. 
I note she believes that the business should recalculate the figures and pay some 
compensation, but I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate her deep frustration and anguish, Im not 
going to ask the business to do anything further.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, Im unable 
to give the trust what it wants.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S as trustee of 
the S Trust to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman