DRN-4233356
Complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do more to stop her from gambling 
when she had a problem between September 2016 and July 2017.
Background
In January 2023, Ms M complained to Lloyds to say that it didnt do enough to help during a 
difficult period and she asked Lloyds to refund her the gambling transactions she made from 
her account. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint as far as it was concerned it didnt do anything wrong and 
was carrying out payment instructions which Ms M authorised. As Ms M remained 
dissatisfied, Ms M referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Ms M 
and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I get into the detail of Ms Ms complaint, I want to say that Im sorry to learn of the 
real difficult time that shes gone through. I do sympathise with her situation and Im glad to 
hear that shes receiving help with this. However, when determining her complaint I must 
consider whether Lloyds did anything wrong during the period referred to and having thought 
about everything I dont think it is the case.
Its clear that Lloyds didnt know about Ms Ms difficulty gambling. That doesnt appear to be 
in dispute, particularly as Ms M herself says that she didnt realise that she had a problem at 
that stage. So theres no suggestion that Lloyds failed in a duty to protect Ms M after shed 
asked for help or used an application to block certain transactions.
Notwithstanding the fact that Lloyds wasnt told about Ms Ms gambling, Ive also considered 
whether it, in any event, ought to have known about this. Ms M says it is obvious from her 
statements what was going on. Having reviewed Ms Ms statements, I also this its fair to say 
that if these had been manually reviewed the amount of transactions might have led to 
someone picking up that there might have been an issue. 
But there wasnt an expectation or even an understanding that Ms Ms account would be 
reviewed this way. Such reviews are typically carried out before the provision of credit. And 
this is to ensure that a lender doesnt lend to a prospective borrower that cannot afford 
repay. In this case, Ms M had a basic account and this is important because it meant that  
Ms M wasnt able to have an overdraft or any other type of formal borrowing on her account.
If Ms M had an overdraft on her account she would have been using Lloyds money to 
gamble. And Lloyds would have been required to review Ms Ms account periodically in order 
with the rules, regulations and good industry practice in place at the time. If reviews of funds 
that Lloyds had been lending had taken place and Lloyds had seen that Ms M was using its 
money for unsustainable purposes, it is possible that it could have stopped lending to her. 
For example an overdraft review might have led it to consider that the funds it was lending 
were being used unsustainably. That said, given Ms Ms account was only open for nine 
months or so, it is, in any event, possible that it wouldnt have been open long enough for 
any overdraft review to have taken place. 
However, in any event, in this instance, as Ive explained Ms M didnt have an overdraft on 
her account. She was by the looks of it, at least, gambling her own funds. I appreciate that 
Ms M says that she was borrowing from elsewhere but as she was not borrowing from 
Lloyds, it wouldnt be expected to know that this was credit. 
Furthermore, none of the transactions concerned were flagged up as being out of the norm 
either. As Ms M was gambling her own money and didnt have any restrictions on gambling 
transactions, I dont think that Lloyds could have unilaterally blocked the transactions in 
question. At best, even if it took action (and this was not guaranteed as there was no 
requirement to do so) all it could do was contact Ms M and check that she was making the 
transactions, which there is no doubt it was. 
I do accept that if the transactions had been flagged up, Lloyds could also have possibly 
checked with Ms M that she did genuinely wish to make the transactions in question. But it 
seems to me that even then this is unlikely to have made a difference here. I say this 
because Ms M herself has said that she made the transactions at the time (so theres no 
dispute that she consented to them). I particularly say that this is the case as Ms M says that 
she didnt realise that she had a gambling problem at that stage. 
So it is difficult for me to conclude that she would have told Lloyds she didnt want to make 
the transactions at the time they were authorised at least. And as Ive explained, I dont think 
that Lloyds had the ability to unilaterally block Ms M from spending her own money in this 
way, without some kind of consent from her to do so.   
To be clear this is a very unfortunate situation. And as Ive said I am sympathetic to the 
position Ms M has found herself in. Ive also not simply looked at Ms Ms complaint from the 
point of view of whether she told Lloyds about her gambling problem. Ive also thought about 
whether there was anything that Lloyds else ought to have done of its own volition in these 
circumstances. But having carefully thought about matters, Im satisfied that Lloyds had to 
respect Ms Ms instructions in this case.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms M and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman