DRN-4030813
The complaint
Mr G complains about the repairs to his car after a claim to Tesco Underwriting Limited 
under his motor insurance policy. He also complains his car was damaged further by the 
repairers.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but Tesco is the underwriter of this 
policy i.e. the insurer. It is therefore responsible for it, and any references to Tesco includes 
the actions of the companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G had an accident and made a claim on his car insurance policy with Tesco. Tesco had 
its approved repair garage carry out the necessary repair work to his car. 
Mr G wasnt happy and raised concerns about various aspects of the work carried out by the 
garage. He also said they hadnt fixed the water ingress issue hed informed them of as part 
of his claim. And he complained that the garage had caused damage to the roof of his car. 
Tesco arranged for an independent inspection of the car, and the independent engineers 
report said that the rear wing of the car needed to be repaired again, and the door seal 
needed replacing. It said this was the responsibility of the garage. The report also said it was 
to be determined who would be responsible for fixing the roof rail of the car and that a water 
leak test should be carried out.
The car was subsequently returned to the garage for the rectification work, which it says has 
been completed. Tesco has confirmed that the roof seals were replaced as part of the claim, 
but it didnt rectify the issue of water ingress. So, it had a manufacturer main dealership 
investigate. It said the dealership determined that there was damage to the roof cover and 
frame, and they would need replacing. But Tesco said that this damage wasnt related to the 
incident. So, it didnt think it was responsible for replacing the roof of the car.
Mr G subsequently brought his complaint to our service, he said he still wasnt happy with 
the repairs carried out and maintains that the garage had caused additional damage to his 
cars roof.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
independent engineers report said a copy of the repair garages check in sheet was needed 
to determine who would be responsible for the damage to the roof. She didnt think Tesco 
had done enough to help Mr G work out what happened to his car, and she said Tesco 
should have an engineer inspect the roof further and it should also pay £200 compensation. 
Tesco didnt agree, it said Mr G had stated during a call that there was water leaking in from 
the soft top and this was before any work being carried out by the garage, and before the car 
was collected. It said its engineer stated the damage wasnt consistent with the accident 
circumstances, and the damage to the seal was due to wear and tear. 
Our investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld. She said there were two issues 
to consider, the seal that was worn and the dents ripples in the roof. Our investigator said 
she could understand that possible wear and tear contributed to the water ingress, but she 
thought the issue of the further damage was not answered. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my decision on 4 March 2023 in which I said: 
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Damage to the roof
Tesco says initially its garage determined the leak was down to wear and tear on the roof 
seals. This isnt covered under the policy, so I think what it said was reasonable initially.  
Nevertheless, it says the garage replaced the seals, so I find it took responsibility for this 
repair. It says changing the seals did not fix the water ingress issues, and it had an 
inspection carried out by the car manufacturers main dealership to try to identify the cause 
of the leak. Following the dealerships inspection, it doesnt think the damage was accident 
related. 
Mr G thinks the water ingress problem was caused in the accident. He also told us he 
noticed the problem was worse when he received the car back after the initial repairs were 
made. Had further damage been caused by the garage, I would expect Tesco to take 
responsibility for putting it right. Ive therefore thought about whether its responsible for fixing 
the leak and the dents in the roof. 
Tesco says the dealership confirmed the roof was misaligned and the frame was dented, 
and both would need replacing. Ive asked Tesco for a copy of the dealerships findings, but 
its not provided this. Even if I accept the damage wasnt accident related as Tesco says, I 
dont think this automatically means it was pre-existing damage. Based on matters so far, I 
cant rule out that the garage didnt cause the dents and misalignment of the roof  
particularly given that they had done some work to the roof at this point by replacing the 
seals. 
I accept the purpose of this inspection was to determine the source of the leak which was 
present before any repair work was undertaken. But I dont think the fact there was already a 
leak means it wasnt made worse by the garages actions. 
Mr G says the dents were not there before his car went to the garage and I think what hes 
said is reasonable. Had the dents in the roof been present prior, I think its likely the garage 
would have identified this damage during its initial inspection of the car. I say this because, 
its notes show the garage investigated the leak and traced it to the nearside roof, above the 
door, which is the same side and area of the dents. 
In its emails, Tesco suggests the garage had concerns of pre-existing damage to the rear 
wing, but theres been no mention of pre-existing damage in the form of dents to the 
nearside roof of the car. I find it extremely unusual that a garage would note pre-existing 
damage to the rear wing, but not note any pre-existing damage elsewhere when this could 
clearly be relevant. Particularly given Mr G had raised concerns about water ingress in his 
car by this time. 
Tesco also says the roof seals were replaced by the garage, so I think its possible that in 
the process of doing so, the garage caused further damage to Mr Gs car. However, its notes 
suggest the garage said the seals werent available on their own and the whole roof had to 
be replaced, so its not clear whether the seals were changed or not, but I dont think that changes things. I think its still possible further damage was caused by the garage while it 
worked on the car.
The independent engineer said they would need the original check in sheet to determine 
who was responsible for the dents to the roof frame. Tesco has confirmed this isnt available 
and wasnt provided to the independent engineers. In the absence of the check in sheet or 
initial reports from the garage or photographs of the roof, its difficult to know the condition of 
the car before the repairs took place. 
Ultimately, I dont think Tesco has done enough to show the dents and misalignment were 
pre-existing. I would also add that had the leak been present before the accident, I think its 
likely there would have been some water damage to the interior of Mr Gs car  and the 
garage hasnt noted this, nor have any of the inspection reports carried out since. So, Im not 
persuaded the leak pre-existed the accident either.
On balance, I think its more likely than not the garage caused further damage to Mr Gs car. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for Tesco to take responsibility for rectifying the damage 
caused. 
Repairs to the rear wing
Following a second attempt at repairing the damage to the rear wing of Mr Gs car, I note 
that Mr G informed Tesco by email and over the phone that he was not happy with the 
rectification repairs carried out. In his email he suggested it send an investigator to take 
another look at the car. Mr G told us the shape of the wing doesnt seem right when 
compared to the other side of the car. 
I cant see that Tesco responded to his concern or inspected the car again to ensure the 
repair carried out was adequate, and I think it should have. 
Putting things right
Tesco accepts the repairs to the wing were substandard the first time round. I think its had 
enough time to inspect the car a second time but didnt. And as the car has already been 
sent back for further repairs once, I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to arrange his own 
independent inspection and if its recommended that further repairs are required, he should 
have the repairs carried out at a garage of his choosing with Tesco paying for the work (once 
its been provided with an estimate for it).
Tesco says the dealership determined that the convertible roof and frame would need 
replacing. Therefore, I think Mr G should obtain an estimate to have this work carried out at 
a garage of his choice and Tesco should also pay these costs. 
Ive also considered whether Tesco should pay Mr G any compensation. As Ive listed out 
above, Mr G has had repairs carried out to his rear wing on two occasions which seemingly 
arent satisfactory. Hes also had to battle with Tesco and its garage about the damage to 
the roof of his car  which, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied was caused by the garage. 
All of this has taken a considerable amount of time to put right. So, overall, I think £300 
compensation for these issues is fair.
Tesco didnt accept my provisional decision, it maintains that theres no evidence that 
damage to the roof has been caused by the repairer.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information that hasnt already been considered, I see no 
reason to depart from what Ive said in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Mr G should arrange his own independent inspection of the rear wing and if its 
recommended that further repairs are required, he should have the repairs carried out at any 
garage of his choosing with Tesco paying for the repair work (once its been provided with an 
estimate for it).
Mr G should obtain an estimate to have the roof and frame replaced at any garage of his 
choice and Tesco should also pay these costs. 
Mr G asked whether the inspection could be done at a manufacturer dealership, and I think 
Tesco should allow him to do so if he so wishes.
Tesco should also pay £300 compensation for the upset and inconvenience these issues 
caused Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to: 
Pay the cost of the inspection and any further repairs required to the rear wing of Mr 
Gs car.
Pay the cost of replacing the roof and frame of the car.
Pay £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman