DRN-4385553
The complaint
Mr P complains that Throgmorton Wealth Management Limited (TWM) gave him incorrect 
information about the value of his pension. Mr P went onto say that he made a number of 
significant decisions off the back of TWMs information which later proved to be incorrect. 
Mr P would now like TWM to recompense him for the financial and significant emotional 
impact that he says the incorrect information has had on him.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr P met with his adviser from TWM. During that meeting, his adviser 
explained that his pension fund had grown to around £245,000. 
Based on the information TWM gave him at that meeting, Mr P explained that he then 
reflected on his finances - he planned to take the 25% tax-free cash from his pot (£60,000) 
and an income of around £8,000 per annum. 
Shortly after his meeting with TWM, Mr P says that he gave his employer six months notice 
of his intention to retire from work. In addition, he made plans to repay debts and look at 
spending time abroad.
In January 2023, TWM explained to Mr P that theyd made a mistake in their October 2022 
meeting and confused his pension with that of another consumer. They went on to say that 
Mr Ps pension was in fact valued at around £130,000.
Shortly afterwards, Mr P decided to formally complain to TWM. In summary, Mr P explained 
the impact that TWMs mistake had had on him and asked for compensation. After reviewing 
Mr Ps complaint, TWM apologised for providing the incorrect information in October 2022 
and offered to refund some of their fees - £734.21, for the trouble and upset theyd caused.
Mr P was unhappy with TWMs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that given the decisions hed made off the back of the incorrect 
information TWM had provided, such as resigning from work and making plans to go 
travelling, he wanted compensation of at least £70,000 to put things right.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that whilst 
TWM had made a mistake, in light of the upset that theyd caused him, she felt that the 
£734.21 refund of fees was fair in the circumstances.
Mr P, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that he didnt 
believe shed taken full account of the impact TWMs actions had had on him. He went on to 
explain the emotional distress hed suffered because of TWM and wider financial 
implications that had occurred as a result of the incorrect information that hed been given.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr P had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to.
Mr P then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which 
Ive read and considered very carefully. However, I hope that Mr P wont take the fact that 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as 
he has outlined, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P and TWM to reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been 
given, what's more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding 
Mr Ps complaint but I wont be asking TWM to take any further action beyond what theyve 
already put forward in their resolution letter (refund of fees amounting to £734.21)  Ill 
explain why.
I dont believe that theres any doubt in this case that TWM provided Mr P with an incorrect 
pension valuation  theyve admitted as much. Based on the information that TWM provided 
Mr P in October 2022, he then went on to make some significant lifestyle and financial 
choices, including handing his six months notice in at work. After subsequently learning that 
the information hed been given was inaccurate three months later, Mr P found himself 
having to backtrack on some of those decisions and putting his retirement plans on hold. I 
dont doubt for a moment how disheartening Mr P must have found that. Hes told this 
service hed planned to use the tax-free cash to purchase a new car and caravan to live in 
and tour around the UK and Spain. He went on to explain that the home hes currently living 
in belongs to relatives which is now having to be sold to pay for their care home costs, and 
once it does sell, hell be left homeless. Learning that his pension fund was worth over 
£100,000 less, Mr P says, has taken a serious toll on his mental health.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr P has told this service about the impact this mistake 
has had on him. I also want to acknowledge that I fully appreciate how upsetting this must 
have been for him. So, given theres no question that TWM gave Mr P incorrect information, 
Ive also carefully thought about how theyve tried to put things right for him. Theres no 
doubt that TWM have caused Mr P trouble and upset; theyve acknowledged this within their 
resolution letter to him and have offered to refund fees totalling £734.21. Mr P, however, 
doesnt feel thats enough in light of impact that the incorrect information had on him. Hed 
like TWM to pay him £70,000 so he can retire one year early, but whilst I know Mr P will 
almost certainly be disappointed, I dont agree.
When mistakes occur, wed ordinarily expect businesses to place the consumer back in to 
the same, or as close as possible to the position, that they wouldve been in had the error 
not occurred. In short, what that means is, wed ask them to work out what the consumers 
pension pot wouldve been worth had it not been for the mistake and then instruct the firm to 
put that right. Importantly though, TWM have already put the mistake right  they identified 
the error that they made (which was informing Mr P of the incorrect value) and then advised 
him of the correct fund value. However, as he never had a pension with Standard Life, I 
wouldnt expect TWM to recompense him for something he never owned. In reaching my decision, Ive also thought about the chain of events that took place. Mr P 
was a new client of TWMs when he first met with them briefly in early 2022, but it wasnt 
until October 2022 that TWM sat down with him to look at his circumstances. It seems at 
some point during the discussions, Mr Ps details were mixed up with another client of the 
exact same surname (who did have a pension with Standard Life) and he was subsequently 
and erroneously told he had extra funds. However, TWM say that when they told Mr P he 
had a pension with Standard Life, he was surprised because none of his colleagues had 
such a plan and importantly, he didnt ever remember paying into a Standard Life pension 
plan. Allied to this, as Mr P didnt actually have a Standard Life pension, he would never 
have received any statements from them. So, whilst I appreciate that consumers change 
roles many times over the course of their careers and can forget about previous pension 
plans, to build an additional fund of around £115,000 would take a considerable amount of 
time and importantly, contributions, which according to TWM, Mr P didnt ever recall making.
Following the meeting, without anything corroborated in writing and with nothing more than a 
verbal explanation of the pension from TWMs adviser, Mr P went on to make significant 
financial decisions about his future. I think when I consider that in the context of Mr Ps 
existing four pensions that were valued at around £29,000, £25,800, £21,000 and £52,000 
respectively (so, in the region of around £130,000 and not £245,000) at the time, that 
shouldve given both TWM and Mr P pause for thought before proceeding any further as an 
additional fund of that amount should have raised questions.
Using financial services wont always be hassle free and mistakes can and do often happen. 
However, I think TWM have acknowledged their error and have tried to put things right with 
Mr P. But, I cant force TWM to give Mr P something to which he was never entitled to. Im 
therefore of the view that the refund of fees totalling £734.21 is fair in all the circumstances 
and consistent with what this service wouldve awarded Mr P had TWM not already offered 
to do so.
Mr P has said that hes now accessed the tax-free cash from within his pension, but at the 
lower amount than he initially thought he would be entitled to.
My final decision
Throgmorton Wealth Management Limited has already made an offer to pay £734.21 to 
settle the complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Throgmorton Wealth Management Limited should pay Mr P £734.21 
if theyve not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman