DRN-3429839
The complaint
Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
transactions on his charge card which paid for flights abroad.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr S used his American Express Services Europe Limited charge card 
(AESEL for short) to pay for flights for himself and his wife to New Zealand (with a stopover). 
Mr S paid over £7600 for these non-refundable return flights through a travel organiser. They 
were due to fly in February 2020.
As the Pandemic began in early 2020 Mr S became concerned and spoke to the travel 
organiser. Mr S particular concern was around staying at the stopover location. Mr S wanted 
to change the arrangements to reduce time at the stopover location but was unwilling to pay 
the prices quoted to do so. So he purchased different flights with a different airline which 
didnt go through the same stopover location (also from the same travel organiser). This was 
at significant additional cost.
He also told the travel organiser to cancel his original flights and asks the travel organiser to 
try to recoup what he spent on the non-refundable tickets. The airline return some taxes on 
the flights but not the flight costs themselves.
So he took his dispute to AESEL to see if it could help get the flight costs back. AESEL 
looked into the matter and didnt think it could help. Mr S wanted it to raise a chargeback and 
AESEL says it explained to him that it had little opportunity to be successful. However the 
Chargeback was then raised, and the disputed sum was recredited to Mr S. After some time 
the Chargeback was defended, and the disputed sum re-debited from Mr S account. So Mr 
S, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt AESEL didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his AESEL charge card to pay for the flights. Charge cards are different to credit 
cards as outstanding balances have to be cleared regularly. And the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 specifically excludes such types of credit from protection under S75. Specifically S75 
section 3 subsection c subsection ii. So AESEL has no potential liability under S75 for this 
dispute.
Mr Ss AESEL charge card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which 
includes giving AESEL an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, 
namely through the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for 
consumers, nor does it provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the charge card supplier considers the dispute 
has a reasonable prospect of success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about AESEL and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly. This decision isnt about the airline or the 
travel organiser, neither of whom are parties to this decision and neither of which are within 
this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback. I hope this distinction is clear.
I should also add that Mr S has raised many issues. Ive considered them all. However I will 
only address the key issues here as I see them in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in line with our aims of being clear and informal.
could AESEL challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr S does 
here, AESEL can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr S doesnt dispute that 
he used his AESEL charge card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other 
details about the transactions. So I dont think AESEL couldve challenged the payment on 
the basis Mr S didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive just set out.
AESEL is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the crucial test here. I note 
Mr S has implied differently but this is the test to be applied here.
AESEL considered what Mr S said and didnt think it would be successful due to the terms of 
the flight tickets purchased. Ive considered the booking confirmation and I can see the 
flights are non-refundable if cancelled. The confirmation also explains that in the event of a 
no show the tickets may also be deemed non-refundable also. It is accepted that Mr S 
cancelled these flights. So I dont think AESEL has done anything wrong in raising the 
chargeback or not taking it further once the defence to the chargeback was received stating 
that Mr S had cancelled, and the flights were non-refundable. I appreciate there are 
significant sums here, but this is the crux of the complaint.
I shall turn to some of the comments Mr S has made for the sake of clarity.
Mr S says that the stopover location went into lockdown on 07 February 2020 and thus when 
he spoke to the travel organisers. Firstly Im not persuaded by this. The stopover locations 
ministry of health has provided on its website a clear explanation of what measures it took 
and when. And having considered this and other information outlets Im satisfied Mr S and 
his wife could have gone there on the flights booked. But even if it had been in lockdown it 
doesnt make a difference. These were non-refundable tickets which Mr S cancelled. So 
based on the agreed terms of this purchase Mr S isnt due a refund. So AESEL hasnt done 
anything wrong by not pursuing the chargeback further or by not refunding him.
Mr S says the travel organisers are within this services jurisdiction. Based on it being a 
different entity which doesnt fall within this services jurisdiction and hasnt provided a 
regulated activity here, then considering this and what we know about this entity Im satisfied 
it doesnt fall within this services or my jurisdiction. 
Mr S points to Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidance regarding refunds if illegal 
to utilise a service or booking. The CMA guidance is primarily guidance for merchants rather 
than for financial businesses having potential liability through chargeback. But firstly Mr S 
cancelled the flights and the contract is clearly non-refundable and so the contract operated as it should. And as Ive described it is clear he could have flown to the stopover location 
without breaking any local laws. So AESEL has done nothing wrong in not refunding him and 
I dont think the CMA guidance is decisive here.
Mr S points to the healthcare risks of him having taken the flights concerned. But he 
cancelled the flights having been informed they were non-refundable. The flights were 
provided by the airline which is a separate company and were non-refundable. The travel 
organiser provides the service of booking the flights and surrounding services but isnt 
responsible for the provision of the flight carriage. And none of the parties involved here 
guarantee or take responsibility within the contract for the healthcare environment of the 
locality being travelled to. I can understand Mr S sentiments here. But neither AESEL or the 
airline are responsible for the reasons why Mr S chose to cancel, or the healthcare 
environment Mr S would have found on arrival.
Mr S points to evidence of time-limits for chargebacks to be processed within this network. 
Firstly Im not persuaded by his evidence about time when it is contrary to what AESEL tell 
us the rules are and as it is far closer to the network rules than the sources Mr S points to. I 
prefer the evidence AESEL provided here regarding time limits. And it doesnt make a 
difference anyway. When the disputed amount was credited to Mr S he was told that if the 
dispute was unsuccessful it would be re-debited. Mr S had already been informed the tickets 
were non-refundable and told such a chargeback was unlikely to succeed. This is what 
happened. And due to the non-refundable nature of the tickets I dont think AESEL would 
have acted unfairly if it hadnt even raised a chargeback in the first place because Im not 
persuaded it ever had a reasonable prospect of success. So I dont think he lost out here 
because of this. In these circumstances Mr S was never entitled to a refund and so it is fair 
he didnt get refunded.
Mr S says he wasnt given the opportunity to contest the issue before funds were re-debited 
from his account. Im not persuaded that this was the case because AESEL has said it could 
reconsider the matter at any time. But more importantly Im not persuaded this makes any 
difference anyway. The airline was entitled to defend the chargeback and submitted 
evidence to do so-namely the non-refundable nature of the tickets. So Im not persuaded by 
Mr S arguments here as whether or not hed made more representations I dont think hed 
have been fairly awarded a refund.
And even if there was a process issue here, which Im not persuaded there is, I dont see it 
as being fair that AESEL bear the cost of non-refundable tickets that Mr S cancelled having 
been informed they were non-refundable. This loss doesnt sit with AESEL as Im not 
persuaded its done anything sufficiently wrong to make it fair it bears such a cost.
Mr S points to the Force Majeure clause of the contract and that such a pandemic was 
outside of his reasonable contemplation. However AESELs responsibility here is to consider 
whether a chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success. It is not the end supplier of the 
flight carriage. Mr S cancelled the flights and thus caused the contract to operate in 
response to his cancellation. And this it did by the airline not refunding him. So AESEL 
hasnt done anything wrong by not taking the matter further. Just because Mr S didnt 
envisage such a pandemic doesnt make it fair for AESEL to bear the cost of Mr S decision 
to cancel these non-refundable tickets.
Mr S says I respectfully submit that it is for the Financial Ombudsman to protect the 
consumer. It is for this Service to be impartial and reach fair and reasonable conclusions. 
And it is my decision that AESEL shouldnt bear the cost of Mr S decision to cancel non-
refundable flights.Mr S says hes unhappy with the points awarded to him by AESEL in respect of its customer 
service. Having reviewed everything that happened here Im not persuaded Mr S has lost out 
significantly here. AESEL could have been clearer but Im not persuaded there is any 
significant detriment here. So I dont think it should do more than what its done.
Mr S says many other providers have offered refunds across various industries and types of 
services. This service has seen many cases across all sectors and this services experience 
is different to Mr S assertion. But AESELs responsibility here is to decide whether or not to 
take the chargeback further and I think it hasnt done anything wrong by deciding it didnt 
have a reasonable prospect of success.
Mr S has said the Investigator has found that Mr and Mrs S should have travelled to
(the stopover location)with possibly fatal consequences. As Ive explained this complaint 
is about AESEL and whether it has treated Mr S fairly in regard to whether it should have 
pursued the chargeback further than it did. It is my decision it did treat him fairly as it 
concluded fairly that there was no reasonable prospect of success in pursuing the 
chargeback further because the merchant had demonstrated the flights were non-
refundable.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ss avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that AESEL has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction. Mr S suggests AESEL should do more as hes a 
valued customer of it. It is not for me to decide on commercial decisions that business such 
as AESEL may wish to make in regard of its customers.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr S has said, Im not persuaded 
AESEL has treated Mr S unfairly. So I dont think AESEL hasnt done anything wrong here 
which needs remedy. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Ss complaint shouldnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman