DRN-4377108
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way in which Unum Ltd handled an income protection claim made
on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer,
which can pay out a percentage of his salary after hed been off work for a period of time,
known as the deferred period.
Mr F was absent from work due to illness from June 2022 due to a back condition. And a
claim was made on the policy during the deferred period.
For a few months immediately prior to Mr Fs total absence, Mr F had returned to work after
an earlier period of sickness absence, on reduced duties  initially also working reduced
hours before increasing to full time hours.
The policy was taken out by the policyholder  Mr Fs employer  in May 2022, after it had
decided to switch to a different insurer, who Ill refer to as X. Unum concluded that as Mr F
wasnt actively at work when the policy started, cover wasnt in place for the claim.
However, as an exception and gesture of goodwill, Unum agreed to consider the claim
against the role he was doing immediately before he became absent from work in June 2022
 based on his reduced duties.
Unum obtained Mr Fs medical records and he was referred for a functional capacity
assessment. It also asked Mr F to complete an occupational details questionnaire to
understand the nature of his reduced duties. Having considered these documents, Unum
declined the claim in December 2022 on the basis that Mr F didnt meet the policy definition
of being incapacity during the entire deferred period.
This decision was challenged and having considered further medical evidence, Unum
offered to pay a lump sum to the policyholder equivalent to one years monthly benefit under
the policy in settlement of Mr Fs claim (the lump sum). This wasnt accepted at the time.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He
concluded that as Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that Mr F wasnt actively at work at
the time the policy started, it didnt need to go on to assess the claim made under the policy.
And as the gesture of goodwill was made outside the terms of the policy, that wasnt
something he could comment on as Unum wasnt required to assess the claim or offer a
goodwill gesture to settle the claim. So, it had already done more than was reasonably
required.
Mr F didnt agree. So, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and
decide.
After this complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, X said it would
consider assessing the claim under the policy was in place before the switch to Unum. I
asked our investigator to confirm with the parties whether that assessment had been
completed.
Mr F has recently confirmed that X has now accepted the claim made under the group
income protection policy, Mr Fs employer had with it immediately before the policy with
Unum. And he understands that a payment will be made by X to his employer representing
backdated monthly payments. Hes also said that both policies pay the same monthly
benefit.
Unum has withdrawn the offer to pay the lump sum.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2023 explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below.
.
Unums position is that it agreed to assess the claim made under the policy outside of the
policy terms even though it couldve declined cover because Mr F wasnt actively in work at
the time the policy was taken out by Mr Fs employer. However, it agreed to assess the claim
as an exception and a gesture of goodwill because otherwise, it understood, Mr Fs
employer would be in a difficult position as Mr Fs claim wouldnt be considered by either
insurer.
Ive considered whether agreeing to assess the claim outside of the terms based on the
occupation Mr F was performing the day before he became absent in June 2022, working
reduced duties, Unum waived its right to rely on the actively in work requirement.
And if so, if Mr F was incapacitated as defined by the policy, which Unum seems to have
ultimately accepted by making an offer to pay the lump sum, whether the claim should be
backdated to the end of deferred period and continued to be paid until one of the events
detailed in the policy terms occurs. For example, Mr F reaches retirement age, or its
deemed that Mr F no longer met the definition of incapacity.
Ultimately, I dont intend to make a finding on these issues. Thats because even if Unum
hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by only offering the lump sum in light of further medical
evidence obtained after the appeal against the decision to decline the claim - rather than
paying the backdated claim and then continuing to pay the monthly benefit - I dont think Mr
F has lost out.
Mr F has recently confirmed that X has agreed to make a payment for the backdated
monthly benefit due under the income protection insurance policy his employer had in place
immediately before the policy switched to Unum. And that the monthly benefit will continue to
be paid subject to any reassessment of whether he remains incapacitated.
Im satisfied that puts him in the same position he wouldve been in had Unum agreed to pay
the claim and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for the benefit to be paid under both policies.

I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision to consider. Unum had nothing further to add. Mr F said he was OK with my provisional reasons but 
said hed like an apology from Unum as it had waived its right to rely on the active at work 
clause and hed not had the benefit of the policy for a number of months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Fs comments in response to my provisional decision, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Unum to provide Mr F with an apology. 
Thats because I havent concluded that Unum has done anything wrong in the way in which 
its handled the claim made on the policy. And ultimately, Mr F hasnt lost out because X has 
accepted responsibility for the claim made on behalf of Mr F.
So for this reason, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is 
set out above and forms part of my final decision), I dont think Unum needs to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman