DRN-2720731
The complaint
Mr H complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) did not 
process his transfer request in a timely manner resulting in him missing out on a corporate 
event and suffering a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H held two execution only accounts with Hargreaves. On 22 June 2020, Mr H was sent 
an email from Hargreaves on a corporate event involving a stock that he held which I will call 
Company A.
The corporate event allowed holders to buy shares in Company A at a price which was lower 
than the current market value. The deadline for this offer was 1 July 2020.
On 18 and 19 June 2020, Mr H placed instructions through his Hargreaves ISA account to 
sell shares in Company A. These were sold and raised proceeds of £97,085.46.
On 24 June 2020, Hargreaves received instructions from another provider to transfer Mr Hs 
cash balance. This transfer was completed on 30 July 2020.
Mr H complained to Hargreaves as he said the transfer took too long and he had missed out 
on the corporate event. Hargreaves investigated Mr Hs complaint. They acknowledged that 
the transfer had taken too long but didnt think that Mr H had missed out on the corporate 
event as he had cash in his account that he could have used.
Hargreaves calculated loss of interest due to the transfer being delayed and compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr H did not agree with Hargreaves decision and referred the complaint to the service. One 
of our investigators reviewed his complaint but agree with the outcome reached by 
Hargreaves and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I agreed with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint.
The complaint is about Mr Hs ability to take part in the corporate event in Company A. I 
have looked at the documentation that was sent to Mr H by Hargreaves for the special offer 
and I have read the submissions made by Mr H.
Mr H held 58,818 shares in his ISA account, and this gave him the option to take up a further 
25,732 shares at a reduced price. The deadline for giving instructions was 1 July 2020.
Mr H sold the shares in Company A on 18 and 19 June 2020 but this wouldnt have affected 
his ability to take part in the offer as the entitlement shares had been credited to his account 
waiting for Mr H to either take up the offer or let it lapse.
From the documentation that I have seen, Mr H did not submit any instructions to 
Hargreaves to take part in the offer and the offer lapsed.
In his submission to the service, Mr H has said that he warned Hargreaves on more than 
one occasion that his transfer request was time critical. I have considered this statement but 
the transfer request to move to another provider should not have impacted on Mr Hs ability 
to take part in the offer  the entitlement shares were on his account at Hargreaves and Mr 
H had cash in his account following the sale of shares in Company A.
In their submission to the service, Hargreaves said that when a client requests a cash 
transfer to another provider, they retain the ability to trade on their investments. The special 
offer was shown on Mr Hs account and he had available cash to take part in the offer  Its 
not clear to me why Mr H did not take part in the offer, but I cant hold Hargreaves 
responsible for this as the pending transfer did not deny him the ability to take up the offer.
In the investigators view, he said that the terms and conditions for the service allowed 
Hargreaves 30 days to make the transfer. Hargreaves upheld this part of the complaint as 
they took longer and compensated Mr H for the delay.
In his submission to the service, Mr H has said that regardless of what the terms and 
conditions say, the transfer took too long. As I have said previously, I think the transfer and 
the special offer are two separate things and Mr Hs ability to take part in the offer was not 
dependent on the transfer.
Mr H has said that Hargreaves negligence has cost him substantial profits. From what I have 
seen from the file, Mr H had the opportunity to take up the offer as he had available cash 
ahead of the deadline for the offer. Mr H had an execution only account and the investment 
decisions were down to him.
I have looked at the guidance on transfers from HMRCs website and they say that transfers 
should take no longer than 30 days. Hargreaves took longer than 30 days and upheld Mr Hs 
complaint that the transfer took too long. I think that Hargreaves have acted fairly in 
compensating Mr H for this delay and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman