DRN-1948037
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc didnt close his account when it should have. He also 
complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly registered adverse information about his account with 
credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with TSB. He says TSB told him his account had been 
deactivated in November 2018 and he could no longer use the card. There was a small 
balance outstanding and Mr B says he made a payment to clear this amount on 6 April 2019.  
He says that despite this TSB allowed further payments to be taken out of his account.
He contacted TSB in June 2019 about a payment of £7.99 that had been taken out of his 
account. He says it told him the payment shouldnt have been taken out of his account. It 
agreed to pay him £25 compensation and £5 for the costs of his calls, by way of 
compensation for what happened. It also said it would refund any charges and interest that 
had been applied to his account. But he says it told him he should arrange to make a 
payment of £7.99 to the account. This was the amount of the payment that had been taken.
Mr B says TSB did pay him the compensation it had agreed to pay, and it did refund the 
charges and interest. But when he contacted TSB to make the payment of £7.99 it told him 
that two payments had been taken from the account. So, he would need to pay it £15.96. Mr 
B was unhappy about this and he complained to TSB. He didnt make any payment to the 
account at this time.
He says TSB continued to apply charges and interest to his account. He complained again 
to TSB. In December 2019 TSB told him it would refund all the charges and interest, but he 
would have to make a payment of £15.27 to clear the residual balance. Mr B made this 
payment. TSB subsequently noted that it should have asked him to pay £15.87. So, it 
credited £1.00 to Mr Bs account which then had a credit balance of £0.40. It also paid him a 
further £25 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B complained to our service about what had happened. He says TSB should have written 
off the outstanding balance because it shouldnt have allowed the payments to be taken from 
his account after the card had been deactivated. He says TSB registered adverse 
information with credit reference agencies and he wants this removed. He also says TSB 
should pay him further compensation for what happened.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said TSB shouldve been clearer in June 2019 
if it required Mr B to pay more than £7.99. And, he thought TSB had done the right thing 
when it refunded all the charges and interest that had been applied to the account since April 
2019. He noted that Mr B had now paid the balance. So, he thought any adverse information 
registered with credit reference agencies about the account, after June 2019, should be 
removed.
TSB had paid Mr B £55 (in total) by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
But our investigator didnt think that was enough. 
So, our investigator said, to put things right, TSB should:
remove any adverse information about Mr Bs account it had registered with credit 
reference agencies since June 2019;
confirm it had closed the account; and
pay Mr B an additional £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
TSB didnt agree. It said Mr B had never asked it to close his account. It said that although 
the card had been stopped in November 2018, there was still an outstanding balance at that 
time. That was why the account couldnt be closed in November 2018. Because the account 
was still open any continuous payments could still be taken out of the account.
TSB said it had told Mr B, in June 2019, to make a payment of £7.99 but he hadnt made 
that payment. And it said it hadnt told him there was no other amount outstanding on his 
account. So, it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had asked him to pay the amount 
outstanding. And, it had accurately reported the status of the account to credit reference 
agencies.
Mr B has told us that, after looking into it, he agrees hed set up a continuous payment 
authority on this account. But he said TSB shouldnt have allowed any payments to be taken 
out of his account after it had deactivated the card in November 2018.
Because TSB didnt agree with what our investigator said the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the statements for Mr Bs account. I can see that in November 2018 there was 
still a balance outstanding on the card. The statement indicates that although there was still 
a credit limit on the card the available to spend amount is recorded as £0.00 Account 
Closed.
TSB says it couldnt close the account in November 2018 because there was still a small 
balance outstanding. Ive asked TSB to provide details of any conversations it had with Mr B 
in November 2018. It hasnt been able to do that. But, because there was a balance 
outstanding, I understand why it says it couldnt close the account in November.
I can see that on 6 April 2019 Mr B made a payment to the account which cleared the 
outstanding balance. I think Mr B probably thought this meant the account was now closed 
and no further payments would be taken. I think that was a reasonable assumption on his 
part. His card had been deactivated since November 2018 and hed cleared the balance.  
But TSB didnt close the account on 6 April. 
When Mr B complained about a payment that had been taken out of the account after 6 
April, TSB apologised and paid him compensation. It said he would have to pay it £7.99 for 
the payment that had been taken out. But, at that point in time thered been a further 
payment of £7.99 debited to the account. So, TSB shouldve told him that he needed to pay 
both of these amounts. 
I can understand why Mr B was annoyed when he tried to make the payment of £7.99 and 
was told he had to pay twice that amount. He didnt make any payment at that time. As a result further interest and charges were applied. Information about missed payments on the 
account was also reported to credit reference agencies.
Mr B complained again in October 2019. TSB didnt accept that it should have closed the 
account in November 2018. And, it said Mr B should pay it £15.27. But it agreed to refund all 
interest and charges applied after June 2019. 
Mr B paid £15.27. TSB has since acknowledged it provided Mr B with an incorrect amount. 
But it has credited his account with £1.00. So, the account has a small credit balance. TSB 
says that it will now proceed to close the account.
Having thought about what happened here I can see that TSB has made mistakes.
I agree that TSB couldnt close the account in November 2018 because of the outstanding 
balance. And for that reason, I think it was fair and reasonable that it should record 
information, with credit reference agencies, about the status of the account up to the date 
when the balance was cleared in April 2019. But, its not clear why it didnt close the account 
after Mr B cleared the outstanding balance on 6 April 2019. 
Ive looked at the statement dated 6 May 2019. This shows the transactions from April. I can 
see that TSB reinstated an available to spend amount. Ive asked TSB to explain why this 
happened. It hasnt been able to provide any explanation. Having thought about it, I think this 
was the reason why payments could be taken from the account on 18 April 2019 and 18 May 
2019. 
Mr B has told us he now recognises what these payments were for. And, he acknowledges 
that he had set up a continuous payment authority on his account for these payments. So, 
Im satisfied Mr B did get value for the two payments. In these circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask TSB to refund these two payments. 
I agree with our investigator that the information TSB provided to Mr B in June 2019 was not 
as clear as it should have been. It told him he owed £7.99. When Mr B was told the next day 
that he owed twice this amount, he expressed his dissatisfaction. I can understand why he 
did so. But TSB didnt investigate it or try to resolve the issue until after he raised it again in 
October. 
TSB has now refunded all interest and charges applied to the account since June. Having 
looked at the statements I can see that, apart from the two payments referred to above, any 
charges or interest applied after 6 April 2019 have been refunded. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive looked at the credit file report which Mr B has provided to us. It shows missed payments 
for August, September and October 2019. I agree with our investigator that TSB should 
remove any adverse information about Mr Bs account which it recorded at credit reference 
agencies after June 2019. And, it should close the account.
Mr B thought TSB had registered a default at credit reference agencies, but I havent seen 
any evidence to support that. Mr B also told our investigator hed been unable to remortgage 
with a different lender because of the adverse information TSB had recorded with credit 
reference agencies. But, our investigator said that Mr B hadnt been able to provide evidence 
to support this or to show hed suffered financial loss as a result.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Mr B has experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result of whats happened. Ive thought about the compensation TSB has 
already paid Mr B. Its paid him £55 (in total). But I agree with our investigators view that TSB should pay him an additional £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
To put things rights TSB should:
remove any adverse information registered, after June 2019, with credit reference 
agencies about Mr Bs account; 
close the account; and 
pay Mr B an additional £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc and I now require it 
to take the following action:
remove any adverse information registered, after June 2019, with credit reference 
agencies about Mr Bs account; 
close the account; and 
pay Mr B an additional £150 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman