DRN-2074434
The complaint
Mrs D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited charged a fee for repair work that she 
says it didnt carry out under a home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs Ds represented by Mr Y.
What happened
Mrs D took out a home emergency insurance policy in December 2019. As there was an 
existing fault with her boiler, British Gas booked in a first fix appointment for early January 
2020.
British Gas engineer attended Mrs Ds home and carried out some boiler safety and annual 
service checks. British Gas said the engineer also carried out a repair to a printed circuit 
board (PCB) and it charged a first fixed fee of £99 for the repair costs.
Mrs D and Mr Y werent happy with the fee thatd been charged. They told us the engineer 
had said there was nothing to fix; everything was fine and he hadnt carried out any repairs. 
They said the paperwork he gave Mrs D after his visit didnt include any repair works. So 
they didnt feel the fixed fee should be payable. Mr Y asked us to look into Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy set 
out when a fixed fee would be applied. He felt the engineers paperwork had related to the 
safety checks hed carried out rather than the repair. But he was satisfied that British Gas 
own records showed that the engineer had repaired a loose connection in a PCB. So he felt 
itd been fair for British Gas to charge a fixed fee.
Mr Y disagreed on Mrs Ds behalf. They thought that British Gas had tampered with its own 
job records, given the information that was noted on its records. And they asked why the 
records showed that the engineer had advised on necessary parts when another engineer 
had had to come out later to diagnose and fix the boiler issue.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think British Gas has treated Mrs D fairly. Ill explain why.
It seems Mrs D took out the home emergency insurance policy in December 2019. British 
Gas says there was already a fault with the boiler at this point. A first visit was booked in for 
early January 2020, to carry out safety checks and an annual service and also to investigate 
the fault. Safety checks and annual services are covered by the terms of the policy, so Mrs D 
didnt need to pay a separate fee for those services. But Ive looked carefully at the terms of 
Mrs Ds policy to see when a fee may be charged. 
The policy explains when an excess or fixed fee will apply. It says:
Your statement shows how much excess or fixed fee youve agreed to pay each time we 
complete a repair or replace your appliance; whether
 You report a fault to us
 You agree to our visit following a fault identified by boiler IQ
 Or, we find a fault during a first service or annual service.
British Gas says Mrs Ds fixed fee was £99. This doesnt seem to be disputed by Mrs D. So I 
now need to think about whether I think it was fair for British Gas to charge this amount for a 
repair. 
On one hand, Mr Y says the engineer said everything was fine and no repairs needed to be 
carried out. So no fixed fee should apply. On the other hand, British Gas says that its 
engineer carried out a repair to a loose connection in a PCB. And so its entitled to charge 
the fixed fee. Ive considered all of the available evidence to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened.
Mr Y sent us a copy of Mrs Ds paperwork from the time of the visit. This sets out the safety 
checks and annual service checks the engineer carried out. The paperwork says the 
engineer advised on age efficiency and parts and that there was no 3am fused spur. But it 
doesnt mention replacing a connection in the PCB. So I can understand why Mrs D wasnt 
sure what works, if any, had been carried out.
Ive then looked at British Gas own records of the visit. I can see that the date of the visit 
and the engineers name match the details given on Mrs Ds own paperwork. This states 
loose connection to PCB and that a fixed fee had been charged. Ive seen that British Gas 
spoke to the engineer who confirmed that hed repaired the loose connection and this was 
what the charge was for.
British Gas records also mention a spur which wasnt fixed (which ties-in with information 
given on Mrs Ds job sheet) and that the engineer advised on parts. Again, this tallies up with 
whats recorded on Mrs Ds paperwork. Both of these points seem to relate to potential 
safety and service issues rather than necessary repairs and this seems appropriate, given 
the job sheets Mrs D was given concerned the safety and annual service checks.
Based on what Ive seen, I think British Gas notes do tie-in with much of what the engineer 
recorded on the job sheet. And I havent seen enough evidence to make me think its records 
have been edited in any way. Im satisfied it took reasonable steps to check why the fee had 
been charged. So on balance, I think its most likely the engineer did carry out the repair. 
This means Im satisfied British Gas was entitled to charge a fixed fee.
I appreciate a second engineer had to be called out a few weeks later due to another fault. 
But I dont think this means that the first engineer didnt give the advice about parts he noted 
on both Mrs Ds paperwork or British Gas records. Or that a repair hadnt been carried out. 
So overall, I dont think British Gas has done anything wrong that it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman