DRN-2554688
The complaint
DONT SEND UNTIL L410s HAVE EXPIRED
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2001, in connection with 
additional borrowing on a joint mortgage that Mr and Mrs K arranged in 1998. The policy 
provided cover for Mr K if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ks needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs K the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs K are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs K say the PPI was presented to them as part of the overall borrowing package, 
and that Lloyds didnt give them a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr 
and Mrs K have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs K and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place around twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds records show that Mr and Mrs Ks new borrowing was put in place in July 2001. But 
their PPI application wasnt made until September 2001. So on balance I think Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve realised that they didnt have to buy the PPI to get the borrowing they wanted.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs K have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr K was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr and Mrs K say they didnt need the PPI because Mr K would have received 
employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or accident. But the policy would 
have paid out in addition to Mr Ks occupational benefits, and wouldve meant Mr and 
Mrs K could use those benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs K 
would have had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr K wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve changed Mr 
and Mrs Ks decision to buy it.
- The PPI cost was set out in the application form Mr K completed. So I think Mr and Mrs 
K wouldve known how much they would be paying for the policy and found it 
acceptable. I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs H before 
they agreed to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. And as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman