DRN-3764670
The complaint
Miss H is complaining about how Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) handled the transfer of her 
cash individual savings account (ISA) from another bank.
What happened
Miss H opened a new ISA with Paragon. She wanted to transfer an existing cash ISA in from 
another provider and thought shed completed the online application correctly to enable that. 
But when she checked, the account had been opened but the transfer hadnt gone through. 
Miss H contacted Paragon by secure message and then, when she didnt receive a helpful 
reply, by phone. She was given some conflicting information by the people she spoke to but 
eventually the transfer was sorted. Miss H complained to Paragon  about the fact that the 
transfer hadnt happened in the way she expected, and that Paragon hadnt communicated 
with her as shed have liked.  
In response to the complaint, Paragon told Miss H that the system would have prompted her 
to print out and post the application form. So they felt it wasnt their fault that the transfer 
hadnt been made. Miss H says she wasnt aware that she needed to post anything. She felt 
shed done everything in the right way and was upset with the delays in the transfer and with 
how Paragon handled the whole situation.
Paragon accepted that they could have done things better and sent Miss H a cheque for £35 
to compensate her for poor customer service. But Miss H hasnt cashed it  she says she 
has no idea how the £35 was calculated and thinks Paragon should offer her significantly 
more for the stress, anxiety, time and effort caused by the matter. Miss H suffers from a long 
term health conditions which affect her both physically and mentally.
Because Miss H remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and said he thought Paragon should increase the amount of 
compensation offered to £135 to recognise the amount of stress and inconvenience 
Paragons communication had caused Miss H. He didnt think Paragon had done anything 
wrong in relation to the transfer itself  just in how they communicated with Miss H.
Paragon accepted our investigators recommendation but Miss H wasnt happy. She said 
she felt our investigator had placed more weight on the banks evidence than on hers. She 
was upset that no indication had been given about how much interest shed lost out on, and 
she said the £135 hed recommended was totally unacceptable.  Miss H asked for a 
decision  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will be disappointing for Miss H, Im happy our investigator has 
suggested a fair amount of compensation. So Im upholding the complaint and asking 
Paragon to pay £135 to Miss H. Ill explain why below  covering the application process and 
the customer service separately.
The application process
Miss H is understandably upset that the application process failed her. Theres been some 
debate about whether she used a drop-down box  which Paragon says would have 
automatically started the ISA transfer process, or whether she typed the name of the 
transferring bank into the form manually. Paragon says that if it was the latter, Miss H would 
have been notified that she needed to print out and post a form to them.
Paragon doesnt retain application forms in the same format as theyre filled in  instead 
theyve provided us with their system printout from Miss Hs application. The system printout 
shows what would be normally shown if an applicant typed in the name of the transferring 
bank rather than using the dropdown box. In addition, Miss H spoke to Paragon when she 
was filling in the application and, listening to that call, it strongly suggests that she was 
typing in the name of the bank. Finally, in an email to us, Miss H said that she had put the 
details in manually. So Im satisfied Miss H did input the details manually  and thats why 
the ISA transfer wasnt automatically triggered by the application form.
Paragon have sent screenshots of what would normally happen during the online application 
process. From these, I can see, right at the end, a section saying Please post your Print 
Ready ISA transfer form. This provides a link to download a form, print out, and post to 
Paragon. Miss H says she didnt see this. I can understand how she might have missed it  
but Im persuaded the information was there. So Im satisfied Paragon didnt do anything 
wrong in relation to the application process. 
Customer service
Miss H sent a secure message to Paragon as soon as she realised the funds hadnt 
transferred in as shed expected. Having not had a reply, she emailed Paragon two days 
later, asking them to call her. Instead, Paragon sent a generic reply to Miss Hs email on the 
same day which talked in general details about the transfer process for cash ISAs.  
Another two days later, Miss H phoned Paragon. On that phone call the Paragon 
representative gave Miss H some incorrect information, and didnt offer to sort the transfer 
on the phone, which he could have done. 
So its fair to say Paragon could have treated Miss H better  they could have called her as 
she asked for  and the phone call when it did happen could have gone better. However, the 
next day, Paragon sent a secure message to Miss H telling her the transfer request had 
been put in place. This was only five days after Miss H first realised the funds hadnt been 
transferred and the money arrived in Miss Hs account within a week from that date.
Putting things right
Its clear that Miss H was anxious about the transfer  she contacted Paragon three times in 
quick succession. And thats understandable  she was transferring a large sum of money 
and her poor health means that shes very reliant on her savings. So its fair to say that any 
delays would cause her stress. Having said that, the money was transferred within three 
weeks of the maturity date of the previous ISA  so Im satisfied Paragon sorted things 
quickly and so limited the amount of stress caused. In view of the short timeframe, Im 
satisfied that our investigators suggested figure of £135 is fair and reasonable 
compensation.
Miss H has expressed concern about the interest shed have lost out on. The interest rate 
was 0.41% and the balance she transferred in around £41,000  so the interest shed have 
earned over that period would have been less than £10. And I cant say all of the delay was 
Paragons fault. As its such a small amount its reasonable to include any lost interest within 
the total compensation rather than splitting it out.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, my decision is that Paragon Bank Plc must pay £135 to Miss H. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman