DRN-4152076
The complaint
Mr G complains Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited, trading as goskippy.com, 
(Somerset Bridge) mistakenly removed a named driver from his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G held car insurance with Somerset Bridge. In December 2020, he added his son, who 
had a provisional licence, to the policy as a named driver. 
In December 2022, Mr G sent documents to Somerset Bridge to show his son had passed 
his driving test as he wanted to change his sons license type on the policy. There was some 
confusion because Mr G was told there wasnt a named driver on the policy. And the change 
to the policy - adding Mr Gs son as a named driver  would incur an additional premium. 
Mr G complained to Somerset Bridge. It explained that, at the renewal in April 2021, Mr G 
had spoken to Somerset Bridge to see if he could get a cheaper premium. The agent 
generated a cheaper quote, but the named driver was removed in error. Somerset Bridge 
accepted it made a mistake and apologised for the inconvenience caused and poor 
customer service. To put things right, it agreed to cover half the cost of the additional 
premium being charged to add Mr Gs son as a named driver. It also offered £50 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr G found the offer insulting so brought his complaint to this service. To put things right, he 
wanted Somerset Bridge to cover the additional premium it wanted to add his son to the 
policy and return his premiums for 2021 and 2022. This is because he says he wouldve got 
a cheaper quote from other insurers if hed been looking for a policy for just himself. He also 
wants the compensation to reflect the gravity of the situation they put Mr G and his son in.
An Investigator considered matters and thought the offer from Somerset Bridge was fair and 
reasonable, so she didnt ask it to do more to put things right. Mr G disagreed. He says the 
compensation isnt high enough and his premiums should be refunded. He also questioned 
what wouldve happened if hed been stopped by the police.
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr G that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here 
as I agree the business made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right. Ill explain why.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. Somerset Bridge has admitted it got things wrong 
when its agent mistakenly removed Mr Gs son as a named driver on his motor insurance 
policy in April 2021. The only issue I therefore need to decide is whether the things it has 
done to put this right, including the compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers, not punish organisations. We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the 
consumer concerned. I can see from what has been said by Mr G that he has been very 
concerned by what couldve happened. But I think Somerset Bridge took this matter 
seriously. It apologised to Mr G, agreed to pay half of the increased premium and offered 
£50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by this. I believe this is a fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr G wants Somerset Bridge to cover the increased premium and refund his insurance for 
two years. But the increased premium wouldve always been due for Mr G to add a young 
driver who had recently passed their test as a named driver on the policy or change the 
status of that driver from having a provisional licence  and therefore under supervision  to 
a full licence. And, whilst I agree it may have been possible for Mr G to find insurance 
cheaper elsewhere for just himself, this isnt the policy he wanted. He also had the benefit of 
the policy held with Somerset Bridge for this period. So, I dont agree it should refund the 
premiums for 2021 or 2022 or cover the full cost of adding Mr Gs son to the policy.
Mr G says, although he shouldve more thoroughly checked his renewal documents in 2022, 
its human nature not to. Whilst I understand this, a consumer is responsible for checking the 
details are correct in the policy documents. It was clearly stated on the first page of the 
renewal confirmation and at various other places in the renewal documentation in 2022 that 
the only person insured was Mr G. So, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr G to 
notice this and have taken this into account when deciding this complaint.
I know Mr G wants compensation which he feels reflects the gravity of the situation. And he 
questions what wouldve happened if, for example, his son had been stopped by the police. 
But my role is to consider whether Somerset Bridge acted fairly and reasonably in putting 
things right in relation to the mistake it made and the impact this actually had, rather than the 
impact it could have had if the facts had been different. And I think Somerset Bridge has 
done this for the reasons set out above.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to informally resolve his dispute with Somerset Bridge  can do for him.
Putting things right
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 distress 
and inconvenience and cover half of the increased premium for Mr G to add his son as a 
named driver for the remainder of the policy year 2022/23 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited should pay £50 distress and 
inconvenience to Mr G. It should also cover half of the increased premium for Mr G to add 
his son as a named driver for the remainder of the policy year 2022/23, if this is what he did.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman