DRN-2437931
The complaint
 Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy after a replacement bicycle was damaged during a break-in.
What happened
 Mr B had a homeprotect insurance policy underwritten by AXA. Hed added an expensive 
bicycle to the policy schedule. When the bicycle was stolen AXA offered a cash settlement 
as the model was no longer available. And Mr B purchased a replacement bicycle. The 
following month thieves attempted to steal the new bicycle, damaging it beyond repair. Mr B 
raised a second claim and AXA said it was waiting for a final check before proceeding with 
the claim. When nothing happened Mr B chased AXA and was told the replacement bicycle 
wasnt covered by the policy. The policy hadnt been updated with the details of the 
replacement model.
Mr B said AXA were aware the original bicycle had been stolen and he hadnt been able to 
obtain a like-for-like replacement. Hed provided evidence of the new purchase and the 
damage caused during the second attempted theft. And AXA had indicated the delay in 
updating the policy wouldnt be a problem. So hed like AXA to settle the claim.
AXA said itd settled the first claim, but a similar incident had occurred a few months later. 
The claim had been put on hold while itd been looked into. But AXA said Mr B hadnt 
updated the details of the replacement bicycle as required by the policy. And after 
considering the matter itd decided the damage to new bicycle wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with AXAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He could see Mr B hadnt updated the insurance schedule to list the 
new bicycle even though the terms and conditions of the policy were clear.
But our investigator did feel the service Mr B had received was lacking. Hed been given the 
impression the insurance was going to pay out before the underwriters changed their mind. 
And he didnt think Mr Bs expectations had been managed in that respect. Mr B hadnt 
found out the outcome for a few months. And his complaint hadnt been dealt with properly. 
Our investigator felt AXA should pay Mr B £150 compensation for the poor service. But he 
couldnt say AXA had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr B didnt agree. Hed placed the order for another replacement bicycle because he 
expected the claim to be paid out. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can understand Mr Bs frustration. He specified a number of high value items on his home 
insurance policy. And that included a bicycle valued at just over £1500 that would be 
covered within and away from his home. 
When the bicycle was stolen AXA wasnt able to provide an exact replacement. So it 
provided a cash settlement and Mr B purchased a new bicycle. Unfortunately the thieves 
returned and although they were unable to steal the replacement they did cause 
considerable damage during the attempt. Mr B says AXA initially suggested his second claim 
would be successful. AXA knew hed had to replace the bicycle with a different model. So Mr 
B feels AXA should honour the claim even though he hadnt updated the policy.
When considering Mr Bs complaint there are two main areas to consider - whether AXA 
acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the insurance policy when it declined to 
cover the damage caused to Mr Bs replacement bicycle. And how AXA dealt with Mr Bs 
claim and subsequent complaint.
I can see the insurance policy sets limits for the value of items covered. And in the case of 
bicycles anything over the value of £350 has to be specified separately to be covered by the 
policy. When the initial theft took place Mr Bs bicycle was listed on the policy. And AXA 
accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement as it wasnt able to provide a replacement 
model.
But I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to expect Mr B to update his policy with the new 
bicycle. It would need to know what model was now being insured and what its value was. In 
the section headed getting started the policy says the cover is based on the information the 
customer provides to the insurer, as detailed within the policy documents. The policy goes 
on to say if this is incorrect, incomplete or changes during the policy year, you must take 
steps to tell us. If not, there is a risk your policy could be cancelled, amended, additional 
premium could be charge or claims could be reduced or rejected.
So I cant say AXA acted unfairly in declined the claim for any damage caused to the 
replacement bicycle. Mr B hadnt updated his policy to reflect the new model. And the policy 
clearly states that any changes must be notified to AXA. Its important the insurer is able to 
properly assess the risk it is being asked to cover. I appreciate it was a relatively short period 
of time between purchasing the replacement bicycle and the second attempted theft taking 
place. But it was Mr Bs responsibility to keep AXA updated about the bicycles he owned.
 
Based on everything Ive seen I think AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when it declined the second claim. But I do think AXA couldve handled matters better. 
Mr B was the victim of two break-ins which must have been very unpleasant. After the first 
theft the thieves returned a few months later and damaged the replacement bicycle while 
trying to steal it.
When Mr B raised the second claim AXA arranged an interview to confirm the details. And 
the notes suggest the claim was likely to be successful, even though the policy hadnt been 
updated. And this is the impression Mr B was left with. After further consideration AXA 
ultimately decided to decline the claim. And as Ive mentioned before, I cant say AXA acted 
unfairly by applying the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
But AXA didnt keep Mr B updated with how things were going. And when Mr B chased AXA 
he was told further validation was still required. So when the claim was eventually declined 
Mr B was understandably surprised and disappointed. And when he raised a complaint 
about how things had been handled it seems no-one took responsibility or responded 
formally to him. 
Mr B was given a misleading impression about how the claim was proceeding. He had to 
keep chasing AXA, only to discover itd decided to decline the claim. And his frustration was 
further increased when no-one dealt with his complaint or explained whatd happened. I dont underestimate the upset this has caused Mr B. As Ive explained. I cant ask AXA to 
settle Mr Bs claim for the second bicycle. But I do think its right that AXA compensate Mr B 
for the poor service he received while his claim was being considered and during his 
subsequent complaint.
 
Putting things right
 I can see our investigator suggested AXA pay Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset he was 
put through. And I can see AXA has accepted the recommendation. Taking everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I think thats a fair amount.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr B £150 compensation for his 
trouble and upset as it has agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman