DRN-3209491
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank rejected his 
section 75 claim.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr W paid a deposit of £1000 towards a caravan using his Tesco card.
Mr W says it was agreed between him and the supplier that the caravan would be delivered 
in March or April 2020. He says that the supplier contacted him and tried to persuade him to 
take delivery of a caravan before Christmas 202. Mr W says he felt that something wasnt 
right and declined this. In the New Year, he decided to cancel the order because of the 
actions of the supplier.
Mr W says he researched the law and believed that the supplier was obliged to refund his 
deposit. He says the supplier had a waiting list of purchasers for caravans so hadnt suffered 
any loss as a result of the cancellation.
The supplier refused to refund the deposit. It said that it had told Mr W that the deposit was 
non refundable when he paid it.
Mr W raised a section 75 claim with Tesco, but it was declined. Tesco said it couldnt 
evidence a breach of contract by the supplier.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although the terms and conditions 
of the agreement between Mr W and the supplier hadnt been provided, the emails between 
Mr W and the supplier stated that Mr W was aware that the deposit wasnt refundable. The 
investigator said she wasnt able to conclude that there had been a breach of contract by the 
supplier and was unable to hold Tesco responsible under section 75.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed cancelled the contract because he couldnt trust the 
supplier. He said the supplier kept changing the delivery date and the price. Mr W said he 
didnt think the supplier could keep the deposit if he hadnt incurred a loss. He felt that the 
law supported him in his view that the supplier was acting unfairly in retaining the deposit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract and that Tescos response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
In order to find that the supplier has breached its contract with Mr W, I need to establish 
what the terms and conditions of the contract are first. The terms and conditions are 
important because, where they state that a deposit is non-refundable, a consumer is 
generally bound by this.
Where there are no terms and conditions, the onus is on the supplier to make it clear to the 
consumer that the deposit is non refundable before any deposit payment is taken.
In this case, there arent any formal written terms and conditions. However, Ive seen some 
emails between Mr W and the supplier. In one of the emails, Mr W acknowledges that the 
supplier doesnt ordinarily give a refund of the deposit. In another email, the supplier refers 
to having told Mr W that the deposit was non-refundable. 
Taking these emails into account, Im persuaded that the supplier made it clear to Mr W that 
the deposit was non-refundable. So, Im unable to say that the supplier has breached the 
contract by refusing to refund the deposit.
Mr W has raised the issue of unfair contract terms. It might be possible for Mr W to argue 
that a term in a contract which says a deposit is non refundable is unfair under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and pursue a refund on that basis. But this is a remedy which Mr 
W would need to pursue directly against the supplier. 
There isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that theres been a breach of contract here, 
so Im unable to hold Tesco liable under section 75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman