DRN-2628042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Prestige Finance Limited mis-sold them a secured loan. They 
want the agreement ended and compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a secured loan through a broker with a financial business in 2007 to 
consolidate their debts (to use the money to pay off other debts in other words). The loan 
was later transferred to Prestige in 2015. Mr and Mrs A said that the loan had been mis-sold 
as theyd borrowed £50,000, paid over £90,000 so far and had been told they had to pay 
another £59,469.04 to pay the loan in full. They added that they hadnt been aware of the 
terms and conditions of the loan and had been in financial difficulties for years.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Prestige, though it appeared that their complaint was more 
about how their arrears had been dealt with and the balance outstanding. Prestige said in 
2013 that the previous lender had been in the course of arranging eviction from the property 
when an agreement was reached. This was reported to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) as being in a payment arrangement, which Prestige explained was more positive 
than just being in arrears and was an accurate description of the position. It added that when 
the agreement was broken, it was required to report this to the CRAs, and Mr and Mrs A 
didnt want to work with it to find a solution and asked for the account to be reported as in 
arrears instead. 
Prestige also explained that due to the arrears and legal action, extra interest and charges 
became due and had to be paid under the terms and conditions of the loan  this was why 
more was due than Mr and Mrs A expected and the longer the arrears and charges took to 
be repaid, the more interest would be due. It noted that when Mr and Mrs A cleared the 
arrears, they still owed this and had fallen back into arrears recently. Prestige told them how 
to pay each month to fully repay all monies owed when the loan ended and that arrears fees 
were to cover the additional costs when borrowers didnt pay as expected.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us and paid the loan off in full. The investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She noted that the loan had been taken out through a broker whose role was 
to ensure that the mortgage was suitable, so Prestige wasnt responsible for this. The 
investigator said that the complaint was really about the amount Mr and Mrs A had paid. She 
said that Mr and Mrs A got into arrears from 2008, and this service couldnt look into the 
account before 11 November 2013 as more than six years had passed, and quarterly arrears 
statements were sent telling Mr and Mrs A about the extra interest and fees.
The investigator looked at the position from 11 November 2013 onwards and said the terms 
and conditions of the loan applied. Mr and Mrs A hadnt paid as required each month, which 
meant they owed more interest (as the lender had to wait longer for its money); the 
investigator said if Mr and Mrs A had paid as planned, they wouldnt have owed more. She 
noted that Prestige tried to talk to Mr and Mrs A about the situation, but they would hang up 
the phone or fail to call back; the investigator thought in the circumstances it was fair and 
reasonable for the lender to issue legal proceedings and charge arrears and other fees 
which the terms and conditions of the loan permitted.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They didnt accept that they had failed to pay for all the months the 
statements recorded and felt theyd been treated unfairly. The investigator asked for 
evidence that Mr and Mrs A had made the payments they claimed; Mrs A called to say her 
factual findings were correct, but they wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence available to me, I dont think Mr and Mrs A complained to Prestige that 
the loan had been mis-sold, but about the amount theyd had to pay. But given when the 
loan was taken out, a broker was involved and it was their role to advise on the suitability of 
the loan, and I can see the terms and conditions of the mortgage were part of the offer 
document Mr and Mrs A signed, I cant find that the lender mis-sold the mortgage as it 
provided accurate information about the loan and didnt advise.
While Mr and Mrs A have said that they werent aware of the terms and conditions, they 
were within the document they signed to accept the offer of the loan. And I can see the tariff 
of charges was sent to Mr and Mrs A with arrears letters and statements.
The investigator has explained the time limits that apply to this service and Mr and Mrs A 
havent disputed this. So looking at the interest and fees charged since 11 November 2013, I 
can see Mr and Mrs A were in arrears for a long time and there were substantial periods 
where no payment was made at all. Mrs A has accepted the factual findings of the 
investigator and Mr A hasnt provided any conflicting evidence. As Prestige and the 
investigator have explained, by failing to pay each month as promised when taking out the 
loan, Mr and Mrs A delayed the lenders receipt of its money and its entitled to claim extra 
interest as a result under the terms and conditions. 
And arrears cause extra work for lenders; for example, they must contact the borrower and 
keep them updated about the amount of arrears. Lenders are required to treat those in 
financial difficulties fairly and work with them to find a solution  while Mr and Mrs A from the 
contact notes (and I place weight on those notes as they were made at the time) didnt want 
to work with the lender, it still had to try. Im satisfied that the arrears and other fees charged 
were in line with industry standards and the tariff of charges. This service doesnt offer a 
forensic accounting service, but I cant see any obvious error. Mr and Mrs A ended up 
paying more than they expected because they didnt pay as agreed.
Mr and Mrs A have said that Prestige didnt treat them fairly. Ive already explained why I 
think the amount claimed is fair and reasonable, and why it appears that Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt work with Prestige at points during the lifetime of the loan. But I can see Prestige 
agreed to arrangements to pay, though there was a history of the arrangements being 
broken, and even agreed to amend the CRA records at Mr As request, though it was to his 
disadvantage. Lenders are required to accurately record the status of an account, including 
when theres arrears, an arrangement to pay or if that arrangement is broken by the 
borrower. Theres no evidence from the CRAs available to me from Mr and Mrs A to show 
that the entries are inaccurate, other than the time when Mr A asked Prestige to amend the 
records to say there was no arrangement to pay. I cant find that Prestige treated Mr and Mrs 
A unfairly in all the circumstances on the basis of the evidence Ive heard and seen from 
both parties.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman