DRN-4260217
The complaint
Mr K complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of his 
claim under his buildings insurance policy.
Admiral are the insurers of Mr Ks policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As Admiral have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Mr K says his property suffered considerable damage caused by ingress of water in 
September 2022. Mr K says he flagged the incident as weather related, but also made 
Admiral aware his neighbour was having buildings works which mightve caused the 
problem. Mr K says Admiral appointed a contractor  who Ill refer to as company D - who 
provided a report in November concluding that the issue wasnt storm related and was 
caused by wear and tear, so it wouldnt be covered by the policy. Mr K says it took Admiral 
two months to reach this view. Mr K complained as Admiral had reached this decision 
without company D inspecting the roof. Admiral then agreed to reinstruct company D who 
then inspected the roof. 
Company D then found that the cause of damage related to the works being carried out at 
the neighbouring property, and Admiral then maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr K then raised further complaint points. Admiral responded and acknowledged theyd 
made errors in their original complaint response. By this point, Admiral had already paid 
£500 compensation for the delays, and they then paid additional compensation of £250.     
Mr K had also complained about costs hed incurred in carrying out remedial work and also 
lost rental income. Admiral didnt uphold these complaints.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He agreed Admiral had made errors and thought 
their total offer of £750 was fair for the delays. He thought Admiral should pay an additional 
£200 compensation for the poor claims experience provided by Admiral. Admiral agreed but 
Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr K will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr K. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the part of the 
complaint relating to delay arent in dispute. Admiral accept they got things wrong by causing 
delays in their handling of the claim. I cant see theres any dispute between the parties in 
relation to the £750 paid for the errors identified by Admiral. Looking at the errors and the 
impact on Mr K  I think the £750 paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Looking at the claims experience, I acknowledge Mr K was caused frustration and 
inconvenience as a result of company Ds original contractor not inspecting the roof. Theres 
no dispute that the original contractor only carried out an internal inspection  and this was 
used to reach the view that the cause of damage was down to wear and tear. Admirals 
claim notes say the original contractor couldnt get onto the roof as the camera pole wasnt 
long enough and also due to the builders at the neighbouring property not authorising 
company D to use the scaffolding theyd erected. A further note says, ideally, the roof needs 
to be inspected externally unless theres enough evidence based on internal inspection to 
decline the claim. 
I can see Mr K says, during the initial inspection, the contractor declined to go onto the roof 
even though there was a safe route provided through a hatch to the loft and a second hatch 
to the roof. Mr K explains this is the same route the second contractor took during their 
inspection, and it then took them 20 minutes to come to the conclusion about what had 
happened. Mr K says company D originally came to the incorrect view that the problem was 
caused by wear and tear, and they only changed their view after they inspected the roof  
something they shouldve done at the outset. So, given the second contractor reached the 
view that the work at the neighbouring property was responsible for the damage, I think its 
more likely than not the original contractor  given theyre both experts in the same field  
wouldve reached the same view had they also inspected the roof. 
So, taking into account the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr K, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to pay an additional £200 as compensation.     
  
I can see Mr K has raised some points in response to our investigators view  so Ill address 
each of these. Mr K says he expects insurers to act professionally when trying to establish 
what has happened. He questions how Admiral could determine there was no insured event 
when they didnt understand the cause of the water ingress. And this wasnt then established 
until almost six months after the incident  which then proved the original assessment was 
inaccurate.  Mr K says, by not carrying out an adequate investigation initially, this led to 
hours of his time spent on contacting Admiral and delays in finalising a claim which 
shouldve been completed much sooner. I agree with Mr Ks point that the initial investigation 
wasnt adequate, and Ive already mentioned, above, why I believe an inspection of the roof 
during the first visit wouldve likely established that the work to the neighbouring property 
was responsible for the damage. I agree this has led to delay and a poor claims experience 
 and I think the compensation fairly takes into account the impact of this. 
I understand Mr K paid £7,000 to renew tiles, membranes and flashings on his roof following 
Admirals original decision to decline his claim based on there being no storm conditions and 
the damage being as a result of wear and tear. Mr K says this work proved unnecessary and 
didnt stop the water damage. Mr K says the later  and more thorough  investigation 
discredited the original investigation so he feels he has spent £7,000 unnecessarily and 
Admiral should be responsible for this. 
I acknowledge there was an error by Admiral in their original investigation, but I dont believe 
the £7,000 is a direct financial loss arising out of that error. Admiral explain, following the 
initial visit, Mr K asked company D for a scope of work document which they provided. 
Admiral say, as they never validated Mr Ks claim, theyre not responsible for any costs 
incurred by Mr K in carrying out this work.
Looking at the information provided, I do understand why Mr K chose to get the remedial 
work done. But, I cant see Admiral have at any point accepted Mr Ks claim or asked Mr K to 
get this work done. Mr K says water was still running down the inside walls so its clear some work was required to try to resolve this. Even if Admiral had initially inspected the roof and 
determined the damage was caused by the neighbouring property, then any remedial works 
still wouldnt have been covered by them  and wouldve been for Mr K to arrange. I do 
understand Mr Ks point though that, had Admiral not originally determined the cause as 
being wear and tear, then he would probably have spent no more than £500 for ongoing 
maintenance. But, in this case, Mr K has chosen his own contractors  who, I think its 
reasonable to conclude, wouldve carried out their own assessment of what needed doing to 
resolve the ingress of water. So, I dont think its fair in the circumstances to ask Admiral to 
reimburse these costs. 
Mr K says the period between the date of the incident and Admiral determining the cause of 
damage as being the works to the neighbouring property, was six months. He says, had he 
managed the repairs himself, then the works wouldve been completed in two months. Mr K 
says it had been planned to use the upper floor for rental, so he says he has lost out on four 
months of rent. I acknowledge why Mr K believes Admiral should be responsible for this, but 
I dont think this would be fair in the circumstances. I say this because, firstly, and as 
mentioned above, the change in Admirals view on the cause of damage didnt change the 
outcome. So, even if Admiral had originally identified the correct cause  as I believe they 
shouldve  the outcome would still have been the same in that Admiral wouldve declined 
the claim. I accept it wouldve been based on different reasoning, but it wouldve still required  
Mr K to carry out any repairs  which Mr K says was required to bring the upper floor to a 
standard which would enable it to be rented out. Secondly, although I note Mr K says the 
plan was to rent out the upper floor, I havent seen any evidence the upper floor was being 
rented at the time. That said, I understand Mr K didnt receive a claim decision based on a 
thorough investigation until almost six months after the incident  but I feel the impact of the 
delay here is fairly reflected in the compensation. 
I can see Mr K points out the risks of insurers using loss adjusters and how this leads them 
to hand over the management of a claim and losing oversight of the work being carried out. I 
do understand Mr Ks concern here but its not unusual or uncommon for insurers to appoint 
a loss adjuster to manage the claim on their behalf. We would expect claims to be handled 
promptly and fairly but if errors are made by the loss adjuster, then we would generally hold 
the insurer responsible for these  as we have done in this case. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes frustrated at the 
length of time it took for Admiral to carry out a more thorough investigation. But I think the 
compensation here fairly reflects the impact on Mr K. I wish to reassure Mr K Ive read and 
considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral have made errors here. So, in addition to the £750 already 
paid, Admiral should pay an additional £200 to Mr K for the poor claims experience  
bringing the total paid for this complaint to £950. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman