DRN-3318206
The complaint
Mr U complains that Allay Claims Ltd is asking him to pay their success fee for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr U said hed made a PPI claim direct to his lender Ill call L. And his claim was 
successful. But he said Allay is asking him to pay them a fee for his successful claim. Mr U 
said hed also had debt collectors asking him to pay the fee and had been contacted by 
solicitors acting for Allay. 
Allay said Mr U initially made an enquiry with them in May 2018 but didnt return any 
documents authorising them to act on his behalf at this time. In August 2019, with the 
approach of the deadline for making such claims Allay said they received a signed letter of 
authority (LoA) from Mr U authorising them to act on his behalf in checking whether hed any 
PPI. 
They said theyd submitted the LoA to L and pursued a PPI claim based on the information 
provided to them in the application. In November 2019, they said theyd updated Mr U when 
L confirmed he'd a PPI policy, and provided their claims service to him. Theyd continued to 
keep him updated about his PPI claim. In January 2020 Mr U also completed a PPI 
questionnaire to help strengthen his claim that the PPI had been mis-sold to him. Allay said 
when they were told that Mr Us claim had been successful, they asked him to pay their 
success fee. As Mr U hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, they said their fee was 
justified.
Mr U wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr U had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as his 
claim was successful Allays fee was justified.
Mr U didnt agree, he said hed made the PPI claim directly with L and that hed asked L to 
provide confirmation that Allay hadnt been involved in the success of his mis-sold PPI claim. 
He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr U is adamant that  the success of his PPI claim is because of his direct contact with his 
lender L. And Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Us claim was because of the 
submission they made for him. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. In making my decision I need to determine whether I 
think its more likely than not Mr U had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I 
consider he has, whether Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see 
whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim 
being auto converted.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown they received an online application for a free PPI check in August 2019. 
The personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mr U has given this
service. The application also needed details of Mr Us lender, and this was also provided. 
Allay has said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to 
progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added. 
So Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In August 2019, I can see from Allays records that they received a LoA and this was 
submitted to lender L a couple of days later. In November 2019 Allay was told by L that 
Mr U had a PPI policy on an account hed with them. Allays records show they emailed Mr U 
the same month to notify him that PPI had been found. And to confirm his claim had been 
submitted to his lender. So as outlined above in Allays terms and conditions this would 
mean from the notification that PPI had been found theyd be providing their claims service, 
which would attract a fee if Mr Us claim was successful. 
PPI being found didnt mean Mr Us claim was going to be successful as it needed to be 
considered by L whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. And I can see that Allay asked 
Mr U to complete a PPI questionnaire to strengthen his claim of mis-selling. Allays records 
show the PPI questionnaire was completed and submitted to L in January 2020.
In February 2020, I can also see that further updates were sent by text messaging to the 
mobile telephone Mr U has given to us. The messages updated Mr U about his claim and 
confirmed the submission of his complaint and PPI questionnaire.
I will now look to see whether Mr U asked Allay to stop working for him.
Allays terms and conditions say:From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain the various ways the agreement can be cancelled, by email, telephone, 
downloading of a cancellation form from Allays website or in writing. 
On 27 November 2019, Allays records show they emailed Mr U to tell him PPI had been 
found  and that theyd submitted his complaint. So, Id consider the 14-day cooling off period 
to start from that date. This meant Mr U would have had up to 10 December 2019 to cancel 
the agreement free of any charge. I havent seen any evidence that Mr U asked Allay to 
cancel the agreement either within or after the 14-day cooling off period. 
Allay sent further emails and text messages to Mr U, to contact details that hes given to us. 
And I havent seen any evidence that Mr U asked Allay to stop or question them as to why 
they were contacting him. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf 
theyd continued to provide their claims service. 
I can see from Allays records it wasnt until April 2021 that they knew Mr Us claim was 
successful. But in June 2020, its been shown that L told Mr U theyd investigated his mis-
sold PPI complaint and had looked at four accounts hed with them. Of the four accounts, 
only one account, with a card ending *2045 (and associated card ending *2852) had a PPI 
policy with premiums paid from 1994. And L paid the redress for this claim in July 2020. 
While I can understand Mr Us frustration as it wasnt until several months later that Allay 
asked him to pay their fee. On checking, L has told us that the mis-sold PPI claim was 
investigated following the submission of the LoA by Allay. 
The agreement Mr U had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. As is the case 
here, as Allay havent charged a fee for the three accounts hed with L where PPI wasnt 
found. 
Where a claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr 
Us claim was submitted by Allay just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was 
successful. I think Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr U will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely Mr U had authorised Allay to act on his 
behalf in making a mis-sold PPI claim and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. I dont think 
Allay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking him to pay their fee for his successful mis-
sold PPI claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman