DRN-2169321
The complaint
Mr B complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to cover his condition under his 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was covered under his former employers group private medical insurance scheme 
with BUPA. As he was leaving his employment, he arranged to have individual 
continuation cover with BUPA from December 2018.
In May 2019, Mr B made a claim under the policy. BUPA said he hadnt told it about 
planned treatment when he took out the policy. It said if he had told it this information, it 
wouldve charged a higher premium. It therefore refused to cover treatment relating to that 
condition. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it did agree to cover one appointment Mr B 
had with his consultant which cost £200. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr B had previously 
made BUPA aware that he was intending to continue cover (on an individual basis) 
because he wanted cover for his condition. She also thought Mr B had only taken out the 
BUPA policy to provide cover for that particular condition, as he had private medical 
insurance cover with his new employer. She therefore concluded that Mr B was dual-
insured and recommended that BUPA reimburse the premiums paid, less the £200 it had 
already paid.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2020. My provisional findings were:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation to an insurer when taking out a policy. If a consumer fails 
to take reasonable care and does make a misrepresentation, the insurer has remedies 
available to it, so long as its a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer needs to show it would have offered the policy on different 
terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
When Mr B took out the policy in December 2018, it was explained to him that if he 
were taking out continuation cover, then he would be asked medical questions to help 
calculate the price. He was then asked:
Do you have any planned or pending investigations, treatment or surgery for any 
condition whether thats planned privately or planned under the NHS?
Mr B answered no.
The sales adviser then said Ok, so theres no ongoing claims or anything no? Thats fine.
Im satisfied that the adviser asked Mr B a clear question.
After the policy started, Mr B called BUPA in May 2019 to explain that he had had 
treatment pre-authorised under the previous group scheme, and that authorisation hadnt 
come across to his new individual policy. He went onto explain that hed had treatment 
the previous year and he needed a follow-up appointment. He further explained the 
follow-up appointments took place every three months, but he expected them to soon be 
every six months.
Its apparent that Mr B did have an ongoing claim when he took out the policy, and so did 
have treatment planned or pending at that time. He therefore should have answered yes 
to this question. Consequently, Mr B failed to take reasonable care and so there was 
misrepresentation.
Mr B says that BUPA was aware of his ongoing claim because, during the sales call, the 
adviser had an internal conversation with another staff member and the claim was 
mentioned. I agree the claim was mentioned to the adviser - he was told that the 
consumer had made a claim for mental health treatment in one policy year, and that the 
claim expired in February 2019.
However, whilst the adviser was made aware that the claim expired in February 2019 (or 
in other words, the authorisation for the claim expired then), he didnt know that Mr B had 
further treatment planned after the date of the call in December 2018. The adviser was 
reliant upon Mr Bs answers to the questions, and Mr B didnt explain that he had an 
ongoing claim and intended to have a follow-up appointment as part of that claim.
If Mr B had told BUPA the relevant information about his planned treatment, BUPA 
says it would have charged him a higher premium. As BUPA would have offered the 
policy on different terms, that means there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA, an insurers remedies are based on what it would have done had the 
consumer taken reasonable care and not made a careless misrepresentation. 
Therefore, because BUPA wouldve still entered into the contract but wouldve 
charged a higher premium, BUPA should have reduced proportionately the amount to 
be paid on a claim (based on the premium that Mr B did pay).
It therefore wasnt appropriate for BUPA to refuse to pay for treatment relating to Mr Bs 
condition. Instead, it should have settled his claim (and any future ones) on a 
proportionate basis.
When a financial business makes an error, the aim of this service is to place a consumer 
back in the position they would have been (as far as possible).
As Mr B has since cancelled his policy, then so long as Mr B wants it to do so, BUPA 
should allow him to reinstate his cover (subject to the payment of missed premiums), and 
cover any claims relating to his condition on a proportionate basis.
However, Im aware that its been some time since Mr B cancelled his policy and so he 
may not be able make up the missed payments or even want the cover reinstated. If thats 
the case, then I think a reasonable solution would be for BUPA to repay him 50% of the 
premiums he paid for his policy, plus interest. That seems fair because if BUPA had 
correctly advised Mr B that it would cover any claims for his condition on a proportionate 
basis, then I think its unlikely he would have chosen to cancel his cover when he did. This 
payment would reflect that Mr B wont be able to obtain cover for his condition with 
another insurer.Id be grateful if Mr B could confirm in his response to this provisional decision which of 
the above two options he would prefer.
Whichever option Mr B chooses, I think BUPA caused Mr B unnecessary upset when 
it refused to cover his condition, and so a compensation payment would be 
appropriate to reflect this. I think £200 compensation would be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
However, BUPA has already paid £200 towards Mr Bs claim when it didnt need to pay 
that full amount. It should therefore work out how much it should have covered for that 
claim on a proportionate basis (based on the premium he was paying at the time) and can 
then deduct the remaining amount it paid from the £200 compensation.
Our investigator thought Mr B had made BUPA aware previously that he wanted to 
continue his cover so he could have cover for his condition. Because of that, she 
concluded that BUPA ought to have done more to clarify with Mr B what cover he needed 
when he took the policy. I disagree with our investigators findings here. I say that 
because BUPA correctly explained to Mr B that any exclusions would be carried across to 
the new policy, and anything that hed successfully claimed for under the group scheme 
may be covered under the new policy, subject to the new policy benefits. Had Mr B taken 
reasonable care to answer BUPAs medical questions correctly and paid the additional 
premium, then he wouldve had full cover for his condition.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I reached a final decision. 
Mr B responded to say he wanted to accept the £200 compensation. 
BUPA responded to say it thinks Mr B deliberately misrepresented information about his 
health, and so it could have chosen to end the cover, but instead offered a fair 
compromise by excluding the condition that Mr B ought to have declared. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.BUPA says it thinks that Mr B deliberately misrepresented information about his health. I 
disagree with this. Mr B has explained that he knew BUPA was aware that it had given him 
authorisation for an ongoing claim, and so he didnt think he needed to tell it about this 
again. 
Whilst I accept that Mr B didnt take reasonable care when answering BUPAs questions, I 
think his explanation shows that he didnt intend to deliberately mislead BUPA. I therefore 
remain satisfied that the misrepresentation was careless, and so BUPA ought to have 
covered Mr Bs claim (and any future claims for that condition) on a proportionate basis. 
Mr B says he wants to accept the £200. However, the £200 compensation (less the amount 
BUPA overpaid for the 2019 claim) would be payable whichever option Mr B had chosen. 
Though as Mr B hasnt said that he wants BUPA to reinstate his cover, I will assume from 
this that he would like to accept the 50% refund of premiums.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
reimburse 50% of Mr Bs premiums, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement.
If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
BUPA should also pay Mr B £200 compensation, less the amount it overpaid for the 2019 
claim, as described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman