DRN-2973565
The complaint
Mr S complains that My Finance Club Limited was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with five loans by My Finance Club between April and October 2020. The 
details of the loans are set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £300 13/04/2020 01/05/2020
2 £100 01/05/2020 02/06/2020
3 £400 02/06/2020 15/07/2020
4 £200 01/08/2020 30/09/2020
5 £100 01/10/2020 30/10/2020
Mr S says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided and that 
had these taken place My Finance Club would have realised the loans were unaffordable for 
him.
My Finance Club issued a final response letter dated November 2020 not upholding Mr S 
complaint. It says that before the loans were provided it carried out affordability and 
creditworthiness checks and that Mr S had substantial disposable income available after the 
repayments of the loans. It says that Mr S credit search didnt raise any concerns and that 
Mr S didnt show signs of dependence on the loans noting that the amount he was borrowing 
reduced over the period of the loans.
Mr S didnt agree with My Finance Clubs response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had seen enough to say that loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have 
been provided. But she thought that given the issues Mr S experienced repaying loan 4, loan 
5 shouldnt have been lent.
My Finance Club didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It noted comments about Mr S 
spending excessively on gambling and said this was a legal and discretionary spend. 
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the loans were provided My Finance Club gathered information about Mr S 
income and expenses and carried out a credit check. I thought it reasonable that this 
information would be relied on as long as it didnt raise concerns that would mean 
further investigation was needed.
The first two loans were for £300 and £100 respectively. Having considered the 
repayment amounts on these loans compared to Mr S income I thought the checks 
carried out were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability 
of the loans I thought it reasonable these loans were provided.
Loan 3 was for £400. Mr S monthly income was recorded as £1,200 and the loan 
repayment amount was £496 which was a significant portion of Mr S income. Loan 3 
was taken out the day loan 2 was repaid (as had happened with the previous loan). 
Given this I thought My Finance Club should have been concerned that providing this 
loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable.
I said that in cases where a loan is considered not to be sustainably affordable it 
tends to follow that any subsequent loans should also not have been provided unless 
there was reason to show that the consumer s circumstances had changed 
significantly. Loans 4 and 5 were for smaller and reducing amounts, being for £200 
and £100 respectively. I considered this but based on the information Mr S provided 
he was still struggling to manage his money at the time of the loans. While the 
amount he borrowed decreased I didnt think that his financial situation had improved 
such that it would be reasonable to say that loans 4 and 5 should have been 
provided. 
I thought Mr S complaint should be upheld in regard to loans 3 to 5.
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision and so 
my conclusions havent changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
My Finance Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
It is important to say that My Finance Club was required to establish whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. As I set out in my provisional decision I 
find the checks carried out before the first two loans were provided were proportionate and 
as these suggested the loans were affordable I think it reasonable these loans were 
provided. 
Given the size of the repayments due on loan 3 I think that there should have been concerns 
that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr S. As Mr S financial situation didnt 
significantly improve of the course of the subsequent loans, I didnt think the subsequent 
loans should have been provided.
Therefore, I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress My Finance Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it hadnt provided loans 3 to 5.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce My Finance Clubs liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 5, My Finance Club Limited should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans 3, 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*; and
remove any adverse information regarding these loans from M S credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to take off tax from this interest. My 
Finance Club must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 to 5. My Finance Club 
Limited should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman