DRN-3802605
The complaint
Mr L complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to close a local branch. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Nationwide contacted members to say it had taken the decision to close 
one of its branches. Nationwide provided information about alternative local banking 
services, like cash machines and branches of the Post Office. Nationwide also gave details 
of other branches within a few miles of the one it was closing. Nationwides guidance gave 
details of the information it had taken into account when reaching its decision to close the 
branch. 
Mr L went on to complain to Nationwide about its decision. Mr L started a petition to stop the 
branch closing. Mr Ls also highlighted online petitions about Nationwides decision to close 
branches. 
Nationwide sent Mr L a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Nationwide gave 
further background about its decision and offered to discuss the branch closure with Mr L. 
Nationwide didnt agree it had acted unfairly and didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
Nationwide had provided details about other branches and alternative banking arrangements 
members could make. The investigator also thought Nationwide had given reasonable notice 
to local members and explained the Financial Ombudsman Service cant tell a business not 
to close a branch. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and said they had ignored the number of signatories 
to petitions against branch closures. Mr L also said Nationwide is owned by its members and 
is obliged to act in line with their direction. Our investigator responded and gave information 
about how Nationwide operates and the relevant legislation. The investigator said 
Nationwides actions were carried out under the management of its Board and didnt agree it 
had acted unfairly. 
Mr L ask to appeal and said the investigators view had failed to acknowledge the number of 
signatories in respect of petitions against Nationwides planned branch closures. Mr L also 
said Nationwides actions impacted many thousands of members and that his complaint was 
also made on their behalf. 
As Mr L asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by giving some information about how we consider complaints and the 
nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Were a dispute resolution service, an informal 
alternative to the courts. We cant fine or punish a business for making a mistake. And we 
cant tell a business to change the way it operates. We can only look into complaints that are 
referred to us by an eligible complainant and consider them on an individual basis. 
If we tell a business to take action to correct a mistake, the settlement will be customer 
focused, taking into account any financial losses theyve experienced and unreasonable 
levels of distress and inconvenience caused. Details about the basis on which we operate 
can be found on our website and within the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) which is set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
Mr Ls given us details of petitions that have been created in response to Nationwides 
branch closures. And Mr Ls told us about a petition he personally created that received 
substantial local support. I understand Mr Ls view that the issues raised relate to a wider 
group. But, in terms of our rules and the basis on which we consider complaints, we can only 
look at Mr Ls complaint and how Nationwides actions have impacted him. 
Mr Ls only eligible to refer a complaint to us concerning his relationship with Nationwide. 
Theres no scope within the rules we operate under to deal with complaints from a group of 
customers, as positioned by Mr L. That means Im not going to comment more widely about 
the impact of Nationwides decision to close Mr Ls local branch. Im going to focus on how 
Nationwides decision impacts Mr L. 
I understand Mr L wanted us to stop Nationwide shutting the now closed branch. But 
businesses are free to act in line with their commercial discretion, provided its taken proper 
steps before and after closure and reassured consumers that it had given proper thought to 
its decision. The Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance in September 2020 known as 
Branch and ATM closures or conversions. The guidance sets out the steps a business 
should follow, including details of assessments it should publish concerning any decision 
made. The guidance says customers should be given advance warning and information 
about alternatives should be provided. 
Here, Nationwide says the decision was driven by a fall in branch transactions at this 
location, rise in online or mobile banking with members and alternative banking 
arrangements available. I note Nationwide provided details of two other branches around 
three miles away that customers can visit, along with information about transport options. In 
addition, Nationwides final response gave further details of the information and factors it 
took into account when reaching its decision. Im satisfied Nationwide followed the relevant 
industry guidance when closing the branch in question. 
Mr Ls given us a lot of background concerning how the closure may impact members 
generally in the local community. I understand why Mr L has given us that information. But, 
as Ive said above, my focus is on whether the decision to close Mr Ls local branch unfairly 
impacted him. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But I 
havent been persuaded Nationwides decision was unfair. Im satisfied Nationwide 
communicated its decision to Mr L with reasonable notice and explained the basis on which 
its branch would close. And Im satisfied Nationwide provided information regarding 
alternative branches and other banking options available to Mr L, in line with the industry 
guidance.
As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further 
action.
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman