DRN-2545793
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax carried out a hard credit search 
when he applied for a bank account. Mr W also complains about the service he received.
What happened
Mr W applied online for a bank account with Halifax. During the process, Halifax gave Mr W 
information to say it would contact the credit reference agencies. Mr W says the information 
provided didnt make it clear that a hard credit search would be recorded on his credit file. 
When Mr W found a hard search on his credit file he contacted Halifax and complained. 
Halifax responded on 15 September 2020 but didnt agree to remove the credit search. 
Halifax apologised for the way a call had been handled and paid Mr W £75 for the upset 
caused. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Halifax had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr W asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has provided details of the information it gave Mr W concerning how it uses credit 
reference agencies and shares information when he applied for a bank account. Under the 
section How we use credit reference and fraud prevention agencies it says: 
In order to process your application we may supply your personal information to the credit 
reference agencies We do this to assess creditworthiness and product suitability, check 
your identity, manage your account, trace and recover debts and prevent criminal activity. 
The information provided also linked Mr W to Halifaxs privacy page, which contained further 
details about how it uses the credit reference agencies during an application. It says:
We will share your personal information with CRAs and they will give us information about 
you. The data we exchange can include:
-Name, address and date of birth
-Credit application
-Details of any shared credit
-Financial situation and history
-Fraud prevention information
-Public information, from sources such as the Electoral Register and Companies 
House
The guidance goes on to say: 
When we ask CRAs about you or your business, they will note it on your credit file. This is 
called a credit search. Other lenders may see this and we may see credit searches from 
other lenders. 
I understand Mr W wasnt applying to borrow money from Halifax when he applied for a new 
account. But Halifax says it uses the information it gets from the credit reference agencies 
for a variety of reasons, including establishing a customers identity. And, the information 
Halifax publishes about how it uses credit reference agencies, explains the enquiries it 
makes will be noted on a customers credit file. Whilst I can see Mr W wasnt expecting a 
hard search to be recorded, Im satisfied Halifax did provide the details of how it operates as 
part of the application process. 
Mr W has told us that other businesses have taken a different approach when hes applied 
for accounts in the past and havent recorded hard searches on his credit file. But Halifax 
can decide how to process an application and I cant say its made an error because it 
operates differently to the other businesses Mr W has dealt with. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im satisfied Halifaxs decision to record a credit search 
was in line with the information given during the application process. I havent found that 
Halifax has treated Mr W unfairly or made a mistake by recording a hard search on his credit 
file. 
Halifax has paid Mr W £75 in recognition of poor service he received during a call to discuss 
his complaint. Halifax has agreed that the service provided was poor and also apologised. I 
can see the service Halifax gave Mr W wasnt good enough and Im please it has 
apologised. Based on everything Ive seen, I think the apology and £75 award is a fair way to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. As a result, Im not telling Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman