DRN-3360007
The complaint
Miss B says Santander UK Plc unfairly restricted access to her current account following 
fraudulent activity on it.
What happened
In late May 2021, Santander became suspicious of a caller claiming to be Miss B and 
seeking to gain access to her online account. Santander restricted access to the account 
online and notified Miss B, who called it two days later and confirmed the caller wasnt her. 
Santander told her she needed to visit her branch with certain identification (ID) documents 
to remove the account restrictions. 
Restrictions were removed later that day, although new security information needed to be 
issued before Miss B could access the account online. These were sent to her by post and, 
unfortunately, were intercepted by fraudsters who set up two unauthorised bill payments 
totalling £920 to be made from the account in early June 2021.
As before, Santander asked Miss B to visit her branch with the relevant ID documents. 
Because there were now also concerns about the security of Miss Bs post, Santander 
wouldnt remove restrictions added to the online account until further checks were made to 
ensure it was Miss B using the account and not an unauthorised third-party. 
Miss B didnt gain full access to her account until she visited her branch a third time, just 
over two weeks after Santander received the initial suspicious call. By that time, Santander 
had refunded to her the money fraudulently paid from her account. But Miss B wasnt happy. 
As someone who mainly banked online, she felt shed been inconvenienced by repeatedly 
having to visit her branch to verify her ID to access her own account when, she felt, 
Santander had allowed fraudsters to withdraw hundreds of pounds without such checks 
being carried out.
Santander didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint  believing it had acted fairly  and so she 
brought it to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. They felt Santander had responded appropriately to the fraudulent 
activity on the account and in line with the account terms and conditions, despite the 
inconvenience unfortunately caused to Miss B. The investigator also noted Santander had 
reimbursed Miss B for the money shed lost to the fraudsters. So, they didnt think any further 
compensation was due.
As Miss B was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Specifically, Miss B said the bank had blocked a 
legitimate payment for £20 (or £30 as she suggested at other times) which shed made many 
times before. And yet Santander hadnt alerted her to two much larger payments being 
arranged by fraudsters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear that Miss Bs been the victim of fraud. I 
appreciate how distressing that must have been for her, and how worried she must have 
been about recovering the money that was taken from her. But in this case, I need to 
consider the actions of Santander  as opposed to those of the fraudsters  and their impact 
on Miss B.
Im glad to see that Santanders reimbursed the stolen money to Miss B, including any 
interest and charges, so at least it seems she hasnt lost out financially because of the 
fraudsters actions.
Miss B says Santanders response to the fraud caused her undue inconvenience in trying to 
use her account as she usually would and had done in the past. I understand the point 
Miss B makes here. After all, the funds within the account were hers and she expected to 
have reasonable access to them.
That said, the actions of an unauthorised third-party meant there was doubt for a time as to 
who in fact was trying to access Miss Bs account. The fraud was quite sophisticated in that 
it appears it involved not only someone calling Santander pretending to be her, but also 
interception of her post. I think its fair to expect that Santander would look to take extra 
precautions to safeguard Miss Bs account and her money.
While understandably inconvenient, the visits Miss B made to her branch allowed it to safely 
remove the restrictions that were placed on the account online. The potential consequences 
of Santander not increasing security around the account were very serious for Miss B. 
Especially as, by then, it was known or at least strongly suspected that fraudulent activity 
had occurred. 
While Santanders investigation was ongoing, I can see from the list of transactions on the 
account provided by Santander that Miss B was still able to use the account in other ways, 
for example, by making payments using her debit card or in branch. I cant see from the 
relatively detailed account notes Santanders provided that a payment of £20 or £30 was 
blocked around that time as Miss B says.
In any case, Ive also reviewed the account terms and conditions to see whether they 
support Santanders response. They refer to the actions Santander might take in the event of 
fraud or suspected fraud, which include asking the customer to prove their ID before making 
an account withdrawal. They say Santander might suspend access and security details if it 
believes thats necessary for security reasons or to prevent fraudulent use. The terms and 
conditions go on to say it can reactivate certain withdrawn security details provided the 
reason for their withdrawal no longer exists.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss Bs said, including that she wasnt alerted by 
Santander to the fraudulent payments made from her account. But Ive taken into account 
that the payments were made using security details Santander sent to Miss B by post. I cant 
fairly say that Santander had cause to suspect further fraudulent activity had taken place at 
that point. But, by the time Miss B wanted to make a relatively small payment from the 
account, Santander had become aware that Miss Bs post had been intercepted and so 
reinstated restrictions on her account. So, I can understand why Santander would have 
wanted to take extra precautions at that time despite the inconvenience that caused her. 
Taking all of this into account, and while fully recognising the inconvenience Miss B was put to, I dont believe Santander acted unfairly in adding and, later removing, the restrictions 
when it did. So, I dont require Santander to pay her any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman