DRN-2291469
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave incorrect information about the exchange rate
to be used when converting a cheque from USD to pounds sterling and as a result hes
suffered a financial loss. He says he wasnt, and shouldve, been told of a commission taken
by HSBC.
What happened
In mid-January 2020 Mr D deposited a cheque denominated in in United States currency
(USD) for more than USD17,000 into a pounds sterling account with HSBC. He says he did
this after being told the exchange rate in branch, and that there were no hidden charges or
commission. He says he was told that as an alternative he could open an account
denominated in USD and exchange the USD for pounds sterling at another time.
It took some weeks for the cheque to clear, as HSBC used the collection method. This
meant it didnt deposit the monies into the account until it had received the funds from the
cheque. During that time Mr D had several phone and live chats with HSBC. HSBC had
advanced Mr D £1,000 to be deducted from the monies from the cheque when it cleared.
During one of the live chats with HSBC early on the morning of 17 February, Mr D said that
HSBC refused to give him the exchange rate hed pay on the cheque and details of when it
would clear. He asked to be told the exchange rate hed pay and when hed get the funds.
He told the HSBC representative that it was a USD cheque. The representative said she
could provide an exchange rate, but it changed every 40 seconds. He asked what the
current exchange rate was, and the representative said:
GBP 13,968.55 = USD 17,649.86 (GBP 1.00 USD 1.263543)
On or around 19 February 2020 Mr D received the proceeds of the cheque into his HSBC
account. He again contacted HSBC by live chat as the amount he received in pounds
sterling was less than he expected. And he thought that the £1,000 advance had been
deducted twice. The HSBC representative told Mr D that the details were as follows:
currency amount USD17656.48
Exchange rate- USD1.3367
Account Currency equivalent - £13209.01
Mr D told the representative that the exchange rate that day was 1.26, the day before it had
been 1.25 and he gave the rate for other days. Mr D included information showing that the
rate he was referring to was a live indicative HSBC Exchange Rate which may change.
Mr D called HSBC to complain. He also indicated he was concerned about being charged
any overdraft interest on the £1,000.
In its written response, HSBC apologised for Mr D being given an exchange rate in branch
when he deposited the cheque that differed to the exchange rate applied when the cheque
was processed. It said all its exchange rates were always changing and he wouldve been
given an indicative rate in branch. It explained how its foreign exchange pricing was derived
and said that it included a retail margin in the rates it offered, although it didnt say what the
margin was.
It said Mr D had been charged 65 pence interest on an overdraft, and it credited that plus a
further £100 compensation for the service hed received in being given incorrect information.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He said if hed been told there was a different
exchange rate used than the one hed been told, hed have opened an account in USD. He
also said he was told he would receive a letter with the exchange rate to be applied and hed
have a chance to accept or reject it, and this didnt happen. He was also unhappy that HSBC
didnt release information about its commission, which he only became aware of when he
received the complaint letter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said exchange rates cant be guaranteed
and continuously fluctuate. He thought Mr D was made sufficiently aware of the option of
opening a USD account so he could choose his own timing for the exchange. He said the
profit margin on the exchange rate was commercially sensitive information and HSBC didnt
need to disclose it. But he wasnt disadvantaged by it because it was included in the
exchange rates Mr D was quoted. He thought HSBC was entitled to debit the £1,000
overdraft amount when it credited the cheque and noted HSBC had waived the overdraft
charges as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that HSBC had a hidden commission
of 10% on the exchange hed received which it failed to disclose. Hed monitored the
exchange rate and it was usually between the 1.22 to 1.25 range. Our investigator didnt
change his view so the complaint came to me for a decision.
Mr D said that the rate he was told was the same rate as on HSBCs site. It never went to
the exchange rate HSBC used. He repeated that in branch hed been told that the rate he
saw was what hed pay. He further commented that every time he was given a rate by HSBC
it corresponded with the daily exchange rate online except for the rate he paid. He repeated
that hed been told hed be sent the exchange rate to be used before it happened.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 October 2020. My provisional findings were as follows:
I propose to tell HSBC to pay Mr D a further £150 in compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. Ill explain why.
HSBC has acknowledged that its staff gave Mr D incorrect information about the exchange
rate that would apply to his cheque prior to him depositing it. I dont think that Mr D was
guaranteed a rate in branch, as otherwise there wouldve been no reason for him to keep
checking the rate that might apply, as he did. But I do think the branch gave Mr D incorrect
information about the type of exchange rate that would apply  it wasnt a publicly available
one. And I think it is more likely than not that he was shown a pounds sterling to USD rate
(a rate for converting pounds sterling to USD) rather than the other way around  USD to
pounds sterling. This is important, because the rates are not the same. USD to pounds
sterling will tend to be less favourable than pounds sterling to USD at a UK financial
institution such as HSBC. Taking all of this into account, I think it is likely that he based his
decision to deposit the cheque in a pounds sterling account on this incorrect information.
The difficulty is in establishing whether it wouldve made a difference to the exchange rate
received by Mr D if hed deposited the cheque in a USD account rather than in a pounds
sterling account, as he says he wouldve. In my view even if Mr D had done so, I dont thinkhe wouldve received the rates quoted to him at various times if hed chosen his own time to
exchange the funds. This is because I think Mr D was repeatedly quoted rates that appear to
have been for pounds sterling to USD, and not the other way around.
HSBC has told us and Mr D that it derives its foreign exchange pricing on a live interbank
market rate with a retail margin applied. It said it used the mid-rate which is the average
between buy and sell rates. It wouldnt have been possible for Mr D to monitor the exchange
rate that HSBC uses for USD to pound sterling, as it has told us that the rate isnt made
public.
But if Mr D had deposited the cheque in a USD denominated account there is at least the
possibility that he couldve obtained a more favourable rate with another institution, including
fixing the exchange rate in advance so he knew precisely what he would obtain. I dont think
he couldve obtained a rate as good as those HSBC informed him of, because those rates
were for buying US currency with pounds sterling and not selling it. There is usually a margin
between the two. And I cant be sure when he wouldve exchanged the monies. Because of
this I cant be sure Mr D has suffered a monetary loss by depositing the cheque in a pounds
sterling rather than a USD account, and choosing the timing of the exchange.
I therefore think that the fair and reasonable thing to do is to tell HSBC to pay Mr D a further
£150 compensation for his distress from the loss of the opportunity to choose when to
exchange the currency, and at what rate.
I should add that it isnt necessary for me to decide whether I think it is more likely than not
that Mr D was told that hed be given a chance to accept or reject the exchange rate before it
was applied to the cheque because it wouldnt make a difference to my decision, although I
dont doubt Mr Ds sincerity.
Mr D thinks that HSBC arrived at the exchange rate it gave him by adding a commission to
its publicly available exchange rates. I dont think this is the case. The publicly available
exchange rate on the HSBC website is, as far as I can tell, for pounds sterling to USD, so
isnt the rate used for USD to pounds sterling. HSBC has said that it applies a margin, and it
is included in the rates that it offers. Mr D thinks that HSBC committed fraudulent 
nondisclosure by not disclosing its commission. I dont think applying a margin on top of the
exchange rate HSBC is able to get in the marketplace is a commission. And in this case, I
dont think it made a difference, since the exchange rate used wasnt arrived at by adding a
margin to the publicly available rate Mr D was looking at and was informed of.
But I do think HSBC didnt tell Mr D that the exchange rate that would be used wasnt the
one available on its website, quite the opposite. And as Ive said, it gave him wrong
information on more than one occasion. So I think telling HSBC to pay Mr D £150 in
compensation for distress is fair, subject to any comments I may receive from the parties.
Mr D hasnt commented on our investigators view in relation to the £1,000 overdraft. As
HSBC has refunded the overdraft interest there isnt any need for me to consider it any
further.
My provisional decision was that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr D £150 for his distress 
in addition to the £100 it has already paid him.
In response to my provisional decision, HSBC said that it remained of the view that any rates 
provided to the customer were done on the basis that they were of an indicative nature. It 
still thought its offer of £100 was fair and reasonable. Mr D said that the £1,000 wasnt an overdraft but a withdrawal on the yet to be cleared 
cheque  an advance which took his account £1,000 into the negative. The amount 
deposited into his account when the cheque cleared was approximately £1,000 less than 
hed expected so hed assumed HSBC had already taken the £1,000. He said that he 
transferred the whole of the amount in his account out on that basis. HSBC then took the 
£1,000 the next day. He still thought HSBC needed to repay the £1,000 plus the £150 I had 
proposed in my decision. He said his account had been in arrears this whole time and it was 
possible this had affected his credit rating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive carefully considered the comments from HSBC and Mr D on my provisional 
decision. Having done so, I still think it is the right one. 
HSBC maintains any rates it gave Mr D were indicative and that its compensation offer of 
£100 was fair and reasonable.
 I agree the rates Mr D was given were indicative, and I said so in my PD. But HSBC itself 
says it gave Mr D incorrect information. And as I said in my provisional findings, HSBC 
appear to have given Mr D an incorrect type of indicative rate  pounds sterling to USD 
rather than the other way around. Pounds sterling to USD tend to be more favourable than 
the reverse and it was on that basis I found that Mr D mayve made a different decision if he 
hadnt been given incorrect information. He lost the opportunity to choose the timing of the 
exchange. Because of this I thought HSBC had caused Mr D more distress than it 
acknowledged, and I thought a further £150 for his distress was fair. I still think this is the 
case. It wasnt just incorrect information, it was incorrect information that deprived Mr D of an 
opportunity. So Im still going to tell HSBC to pay Mr D a further £150 in compensation for his 
distress.
The essence of Mr Ds comments on my provisional findings is that he shouldve received 
£1,000 more than he did. Other than saying he received an advance, rather than an 
overdraft, he doesnt comment on my provisional findings.
 Having re-considered my provisional findings, I still think they are the right ones. Mr D 
mayve expected to get a higher amount for his cheque, but I dont think he was ever 
guaranteed a rate. And even if hed paid the cheque into a USD account, as he says he 
wouldve done if hed been given the correct information when he was considering his 
options, I cant be sure he wouldve got a rate as good as the ones HSBC informed him of. 
This is because USD to pounds sterling rates arent generally as favourable as the reverse. 
So I dont think Mr D wouldve obtained a further £1,000, as he says he expected to. For that 
reason Im not going to tell HSBC to pay that to him. 
The reason Mr Ds account was in negative balance after the funds from the cheque were 
received was that he withdrew the whole balance before the advance/overdraft had been 
deducted. HSBC was entitled to deduct the advance, so I dont think it would be fair to ask it 
to do anything further. Mr D can check his credit file if he has any concerns. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr D a further £150 for his distress. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman