DRN-2846401
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited wont refund him the difference in 
exchange rates after he was unable to withdraw the funds he wanted from over the counter 
and had to withdraw money from an ATM instead  this incurring a less favourable rate of 
exchange.
What happened
Mr P was overseas and was attempting to withdraw the equivalent of approximately £550 
over the counter using his card  which was administered by PrePay. However, the 
withdrawal attempts were being declined. 
Mr P didnt want to use the ATM as this would mean that he incurred a less favourable 
exchange rate, so he called PrePay and was told that there was nothing wrong with his card 
and that he should be able to use it. As Mr Ps withdrawal attempts were still being declined, 
Mr P called PrePay again and asked to speak to a manager.
At this point, Mr P was told that there was a £150 per day limit on over the counter 
withdrawals using the card, and it was for this reason that his attempted withdrawal was 
being declined. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
PrePay looked at Mr Ps complaint. They acknowledged that Mr P didnt receive the level of 
service that they would have like when he first called them, and they made a payment to Mr 
P of £120 as compensation for the inconvenience he incurred because of this.
However, PrePay noted that the £150 limit was clearly stated in the cards user guide, so 
they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ps complaint and didnt reimburse Mr P the difference in 
exchange rates that Mr P wanted.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with PrePays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that it was fair to 
ask PrePay to reimburse Mr P the difference in exchange rates as he would like, so they 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr P not to be able to withdraw the 
full amount of money over the counter as he was wanting, especially as the PrePay card in 
question is marketed as a multi-currency card and in theory should be suitable for the kind of 
transactions that Mr P wanted to make while overseas.
However, having reviewed the user guide of the card, its stated clearly within that guide that 
the card has a limit of £150 per day  or foreign currency equivalent  when it comes to over 
the counter withdrawals using the card.
Im aware that Mr P feels that if this £150 limit had been explained to him when he first 
contacted PrePay that he could have made alternative arrangements, including that he could 
have withdrawn £150 per day over the counter in the days leading up to the time that the 
money was needed, so as to not incur the higher rate of exchange he ultimately did incur as 
a result of having to withdraw the required money from an ATM.
Im not convinced by this argument for two reasons. Firstly, Mr P first contacted PrePay on 
the day that the money was needed, and so it wouldnt have been the case that Mr P could 
have withdrawn money over the counter several days in advance. And secondly, the £150 
limit on over the counter withdrawals was clearly explained in the cards user guide, and I 
feel that it was incumbent on Mr P to have read and understood that guide, including the 
limits on how the card could be used.
As such, I find it very difficult to conclude that PrePay have acted unreasonably or unfairly 
here, given that Mr P wasnt able to withdraw the full amount of money that he wanted to 
over the counter because of card restrictions which I feel that Mr P ought reasonably to have 
been aware of. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ps 
complaint or asking PrePay to take any further action in this regard.
PrePay have acknowledged that they didnt provide Mr P with the level of service that he 
would have liked and have made a payment of £120 to Mr P to compensate him for the 
inconvenience he incurred because of this. Its commendable that PrePay have made such a 
payment to Mr P, and I must note that its commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances here. 
This means that Im satisfied that the response the PrePay have already issued to Mr Ps 
complaint - including the payment of £120 compensation  does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what has taken place here. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking PrePay to take any further action. I hope 
that Mr P can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.                       
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman