DRN-2415795
The complaint
Mr H complained about how Barclays Insurance Company Services Limited (Barclays) 
administered his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a home insurance policy with Barclays in December 2013 covering the 
buildings of a house he was going to move into. Because Mr H hadnt moved into his new 
home, the policy was set up using his existing address for correspondence.
Mr H then moved into the new home. He said that he updated Barclays that he had moved 
but Barclays say that they have no record of Mr H letting them know.
The policy renewed in December 2014 and there was a conversation around this time 
between Mr H and Barclays. During the call Barclays call handler failed to check Mr Hs Risk 
Address and Correspondence Address which was a breach of their processes. Barclays 
have offered Mr H £100 compensation for this error.
Barclays have said that they have no other records of any direct contact with Mr H before or 
after this time.
The policy continued to renew each year until June 2020 when Mr H rang Barclays about a 
problem with some pipes. At this point Mr H discovered that his correspondence address 
was still at his old home and that Barclays had continued to write to him there.
Mr H is unhappy about Barclays failure to update his records to show he had moved which 
he says is a breach of data protection. He has mentioned high compensation figures and he 
also asks for financial penalties to be applied to Barclays for the data breach. He is worried 
about his personal data being stolen which may damage his career or perhaps be used in 
terrorism. He asks for the premiums to be refunded for six years from 2014 but would accept 
50% of this. He says Barclays should have kept him updated with premium increases each 
year.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Her view was that Barclays put the address 
right as soon as they were aware it was wrong. Although the wrong address has been used 
for several years the policy was still active on the correct property and would have paid out 
had there been a valid claim so she didnt think Mr H should get a refund. Barclays have 
admitted that their call handler made an error in 2014 and our investigator thought that the 
offer of £100 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision I find that Barclays have 
handled his policy fairly and reasonably. Ill briefly explain the key points, although my 
reasoning is the same as our investigator already explained.
Mr H says that Barclays has breached the Data Protection Act. But our service isnt the 
expert on data protection law. Questions around the legality of Barclays actions may be 
more suitable for the Information Commissioners Office and Mr H has already told us that 
he has complained to them too. My responsibility here is to consider if in response to finding 
out about the problem what Barclays did was fair and reasonable and, if appropriate, decide 
what amount of compensation is suitable.
Mr H has said that he advised Barclays of his change of address at one of their branches. 
Barclays have changed their branch systems since this policy was setup so are not able to 
search that far back for any evidence of this, but they did say that the branches have no 
ability to update the address on an insurance policy and that changes like this have to be 
done by the customer dealing directly with the insurer.
I agree with Mr H that Barclays missed a key chance in December 2014 when he spoke with 
Barclays. If the call handler had followed the correct process then Mr Hs details would have 
been corrected and his policy renewals would have been sent to the right address. Barclays 
listened to the call and were able to say that their call handler was in error and have offered 
Mr H £100 for this. Ive not seen any additional evidence from Mr H how this has affected 
him so I think their offer is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask Barclays to pay 
more.
Barclays corrected the address very quickly when Mr H told them about it in June 2020 so I 
think they have done what they should have once they knew about his house move.
Mr H has explained that he is worried about possible damage to his career which may be 
caused by Barclays data protection breach about his personal details. I cant see any 
evidence of any damage thats been caused to date so I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to 
pay any compensation to Mr H for this. 
Mr H asks for a refund of six years of the premiums he has paid for the cover but as the 
policy has been in force and would have responded to a claim on his house I dont think that 
its fair to ask Barclays to refund any of the premiums, so Im not going to ask them to do 
this.
Mr H says that Barclays havent kept him updated about his renewal premiums each year. 
Our investigator pointed out to Mr H that he has been paying around £40 for the policy every 
month. Barclays were sending the renewal information out, but to Mr Hs old address. Mr H 
told our investigator that his wife opens the mail and I agree with our investigator that its not 
fair to say Barclays are at fault because of the way that Mr H and his wife deal with their 
household administration.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 Richard Sowden
Ombudsman