DRN-2894740
The complaint
Mr C complains Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt transfer funds from his ISA to a third party 
as soon as it matured and that it then paid him a reduced interest rate on his funds until the 
transfer was complete.
What happened
Mr C had a fixed term ISA with Shawbrook Bank that matured on 24 March 2020.
Mr C contacted Shawbrook Bank on 28 February 2020 to say that he wanted to transfer the 
funds from his ISA to another provider once it matured.
Shawbrook Bank transferred the funds to the other provider on 2 April 2020  seven working 
days after the ISA matured.
Mr C complained to Shawbrook Bank about the delay in transferring his funds. He was 
unhappy that hed also received a reduced interest rate on his funds between the maturity 
and the transfer completion date.
Shawbrook Bank investigated Mr Cs complaint and said that it had received a transfer 
request from the third party in question on 11 March 2020 and that it had pended the transfer 
until his account matured. Shawbrook Bank said it did this so that Mr C didnt incur an early 
closure penalty. Shawbrook Bank said that it accepted the transfer request on 27 March 
2020, that it received a notification from the third party that they were ready to receive the 
funds on 31 March 2020 and that the funds were sent on 2 April 2020. In other words, six 
days after the transfer request was accepted. Shawbrook Bank said that this was within a 
reasonable timescale, so it didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C was unhappy and 
complained to us. He said Shawbrook Bank knew his account was maturing on 24 March 
2020 and had been given plenty of notice of his intention to transfer the funds once it had 
matured to a third party.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think Shawbrook Bank had 
done anything wrong as it had completed the transfer within the 15-day timescale that 
guidance suggests. Mr C was unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is right that Shawbrook Bank knew his account was going to mature on 24 March 2020 
and that he gave them plenty of notice of his intention to transfer the proceeds to a third 
party. But like our investigator I accept that Shawbrook Bank pended the transfer when the 
third party sent a transfer request so that Mr C did not end up paying an early closure 
penalty. In Mr Cs case the early closure penalty would have been over £220. I also accept 
that the earliest Shawbrook Bank could have started the transfer process was after midnight 
on 24 March 2020. Shawbrook started the transfer process on 25 March 2020 and had to 
wait two days to receive notification from the third party that it had accepted the transfer and 
until 31 March 2020 until the third party said it was ready to receive funds.
Shawbrook Bank completed the transfer within six days of the third party accepting the 
transfer. I dont think, given what Ive just said, that this was an unreasonable timescale. I 
can see that Mr C has lost approximately £15 interest as a result but given that he would 
have paid a penalty of over £220 if the process had been started straightaway, I dont think I 
can say Shawbrook Bank acted unfairly. So, I agree with our investigator that this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman