DRN-2879348
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the amount U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin (UKI) valued his 
car at when it was declared a total loss under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just summarise them here 
and then focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr Ss car was declared a total loss in December 2020.
UKI valued the car at £21,800 which Mr S believed was significantly less than it was 
worth.
After Mr S provided details of cars available for sale, UKI increased the valuation to 
£22,349.
Mr S maintained this was too low and ultimately brought his complaint to our service. 
He believes the fair market value is between £23,490 and £24,000. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He felt that the offer of £22,349 was fair 
and didnt think he could reasonably ask UKI to increase it.
Mr S disagreed. He also isnt happy that UKI initially offered a much lower amount 
and thinks this has impacted how much it was willing to increase the offer by.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will be a disappointment to Mr S, I dont uphold this complaint  Ill explain 
why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ss policy, UKI must pay him the market value of the car, less 
his excess. 
In the policy, the market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car with another of 
the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or 
loss.
Working out the market value of a car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for 
the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. The 
valuation guides are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars of 
similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We usually find theyre more reliable 
than individual adverts which can vary vastly in price and can be misleading as vehicles 
often dont sell at the advertised price once negotiations take place. 
Our service found the following figures on the trade guides:
Cazana £23,316
CAP £22,275
Glasss £22,110
The average of those three figures is £22,567. But UKIs figure of £22,349 was within the 
range of those figures. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr S thinks the average should be the starting point for an offer and that the 
higher valuation would actually be fairer, especially given the condition of his car. But I cant 
fairly say that UKI has acted unfairly by making an offer within the range of figures. None of 
the figures are substantially different to the others, and they take things like mileage into 
account. So I maintain that £22,349 is fair.
I also note that Mr S believes that because he was offered a much lower amount initially, this 
has impacted the final offer UKI made. He also thinks UKI acted unfairly by offering such a 
low amount in the first place. But the motor trade guides generate the figures without 
consideration of whats already been offered. So I dont agree that the initial lower offer has 
affected the final value. And, while I understand Mr Ss frustration, UKI reconsidered its offer 
and amended it  so I cant reasonably say that its acted unfairly. I consider the figure it 
ultimately reached to be fair. Ive also not seen enough to support Mr Ss allegation that UKI 
offered lower than it should have due to a conflict of interest in relation to the insurer of the 
other car. 
So, in summary, I think its fair to say the market value of the car is £22,349. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Darwin.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman