DRN-1606988
 
The complaint
 Ms M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her loan repayments.
What happened
Ms M took out a loan to buy retail goods in 1999. At the same time she took out a PPI policy 
to cover her loan repayments. The policy cost £1.85 a month (with the total of premiums 
charged over the course of the loan £24.05) a successful claim on the policy wouldve 
covered Ms Ms loan repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness or 
lost her job for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld because he thought Ms M 
wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Ms M.
Ms M disagrees, she says she had no knowledge of ever taking PPI. So the complaint has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
The PPI was sold in store when Ms M applied for credit to buy retail goods. AXA have given 
us a copy of the original credit agreement. I can see that there is a separate section at the 
bottom - after signing for the credit  titled PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE 
APPLICATION. Within this section it provides brief details about the cost of the cover and 
provides a signature box just below the words ONLY SIGN IF YOU WANT COVER.  I can 
see that Ms M has signed within the box to take PPI. 
If Ms M didnt want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank. Ms M says she only 
signed where the crosses on the agreement were put by the sales assistant. But when 
signing an agreement I would expect someone to read what they were agreeing to. And I 
think that because the PPI was signed for completely separately from the credit with the 
instruction to only sign if you want cover makes it clear that PPI was an optional addition to 
the credit. So I dont think that AXA did anything wrong here. 
I dont think Ms M was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Ms M, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I can see the cost of PPI is shown in the PPI section but I cant say whether all the proper 
information was given. That being said even if AXA did give all the information Ms M needed 
to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy 
because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Ms M says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job. But 
the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or savings and for potentially 
longer. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed her mind about 
taking the policy and I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for her in 
her circumstances. And theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms 
M. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms M on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman