DRN-2967326
The complaint
Mr M complains about AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust), who cancelled his home 
emergency policy without discussion. 
  
What happened
  Mr M had a home emergency policy with AmTrust which amongst other things covered him 
for boiler breakdowns. Mr Ms boiler broke down and he contacted AmTrust. It sent three 
engineers who all gave differing information as to what the issue was with his boiler. 
AmTrust took around 24 days to decide that the fault wasnt covered. 
Mr M complained about this and the poor service he received, namely that he had to chase 
AmTrust, hed lost confidence in its diagnosis of the issue with his boiler, that it had 
cancelled his policy without Mr M requesting the same and that he had been given incorrect 
information regarding AmTrusts customer guarantee. 
Mr M said that due to AmTrusts slow response, his boiler became progressively worse and 
he lost total heating and hot water. This resulted in him and his family moving out of their 
home due to the cold weather at the time.  
In its final response, AmTrust accepted that there had been customer service failings. It 
refunded Mr Ms premium payments for that year (£150.87). It also apologised for the 
incorrect information it gave, regarding the customer guarantee and said that because 
sludge was found in the system, this wasnt covered. So, it cancelled his policy claiming to 
have been acting on the instructions from Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome, not least as he hadnt given any instructions for 
AmTrust to cancel his policy. But also, because he had to get a third-party engineer to 
assess his system and as it had become so bad, it needed to be replaced at a total cost of 
£2637. Consequently, Mr M referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. His 
view was that the main issue was the time it took AmTrust to diagnose the fault with Mr Ms 
boiler. Which ultimately meant that Mr M had to move out of his home with his family. He 
recommended that AmTrust pay £350 compensation (in addition to the £150.87 already 
refunded) for the poor customer service issues and because of the disruption.
Mr M accepted the view. AmTrust didnt. It said it would offer a further £150 as sludge wasnt 
covered under the policy and the refund that it had already paid, wasnt the usual process. 
Further, Mr D wasnt without heating and hot water for the entire period. It said that if its offer 
wasnt acceptable, then to refer the complaint to an ombudsman. Mr M didnt accept the 
offer, so its been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. I hope my findings go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M held a home emergency policy with AmTrust, which covered his boiler and heating 
system for issues that might arise. The main issues of this complaint are whether AmTrust 
ought to have diagnosed the issue with Mr Ms boiler sooner and whether the compensation 
of an additional £150 offered, is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M reported to AmTrust that he was experiencing intermittent loss of hot water. AmTrust 
sent the first engineer who carried out a repair and said that the boiler was correctly 
functioning. However, shortly after, Mr M experienced the same loss of hot water and 
contacted AmTrust again. 
It sent a second engineer who diagnosed that a plumbing engineer was required. Mr M 
contacted a third-party engineer to have a look. He diagnosed that the fault wasnt a 
plumbing issue, so Mr M contacted AmTrust again. A few days later it sent a third engineer 
who then diagnosed that the boiler had sludge. 
Having reviewed the call out history and given that the correct diagnosis was provided by the 
third engineer sent to Mr M, I think it wouldve been reasonable for AmTrust to have correctly 
diagnosed the fault with Mr Ms boiler sooner and Ill explain why. 
The first engineer who attended replaced a part in the boiler, but this didnt rectify the issue. I 
can see no evidence of whether he checked for the presence of sludge, during that visit. 
The second engineer found no fault with the boiler and advised that it was a plumbing issue. 
Mr M had to instruct an independent engineer who advised him that it was a boiler issue. It 
wasnt until the third engineer sent by AmTrust who eventually found the problem to be 
sludge in the system.
Mr M accepted that the presence of sludge in the system, wasnt covered by his policy, so 
any damage caused to the boiler wouldnt be AmTrusts responsibility. 
But I think that sludge is a common issue with boilers and one that an engineer ought to 
have been able to diagnose. And for this reason, I think that AmTrust shouldve been able to 
identify the issue with Mr Ms boiler much sooner. 
Mr M said that because AmTrusts failure to correctly identify the fault with his boiler earlier, 
later led to him and his family moving out of their home due to the cold weather at the time. 
But by the time this had happened, AmTrust had already told Mr M what was wrong with this 
boiler. I understand that sludge takes a long time to build up and I think that it would be 
unlikely that the delay in correctly identifying what was wrong with the boiler sooner, 
ultimately caused it to completely breakdown. 
In addition, If AmTrust had correctly identified the fault by the second engineer visit, then its 
involvement with Mr Ms boiler would have ended. Mr M wouldve then had to take on the 
responsibility to either repair or replace the boiler. 
AmTrust said that Mr M wasnt without hot water and heating for the entire period. I have had 
a look at this and thought about what loss Mr M suffered because of the delayed diagnosis. From the date that Mr M first reported the fault until it was correctly diagnosed there was just 
over three weeks without proper utilities. The issue here is had AmTrust correctly diagnosed 
the fault by at least the second engineer visit, it wouldve likely have said that it would not be 
covered. And looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, I think that wouldve likely 
have been the end of its involvement in the claim. So, Mr M wouldve either had to pay for a 
repair of his boiler or (as he eventually did) replace it. And its possible, that Mr M could likely 
have had the inconvenience of no heating. 
Accordingly, I think the loss that Mr M suffered was the intermittent loss of hot water over the 
three-week period. The loss of heating occurred later and after the diagnosis of the sludge in 
the system. In addition, the disruption of moving out occurred after AmTrust correctly 
identified the fault with Mr Ms boiler. So, I bear all of this in mind when considering 
compensation. 
AmTrust accepted and apologised for the customer service failings. Mr M describes having 
to chase AmTrust (despite being promised call backs), being given incorrect information 
about the customer guarantee, that he had lost confidence in AmTrusts diagnosis of the 
boiler fault, especially as he had to call a third-party plumber based on AmTrusts 
misdiagnosis and AmTrust cancelling his policy without instruction from Mr M.
For these failings, AmTrust refunded the policy payments of £150.87 by way of 
compensation. But having looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, AmTrust 
wouldve had to have refunded this amount anyway, as it could no longer provide cover for 
the boiler as sludge was found. So, I dont think that Mr M has been compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
Putting things right
Given the customer service failings and that Mr M was without a full hot water supply for 
around three weeks, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr M wouldve been 
inconvenienced by this. I also think its fair and reasonable for AmTrust to compensate him 
for this. So, taking all of this into consideration and to put matters right, I think a further £350 
for the inconvenience caused is fair. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
To put matters right, AmTrust Europe Limited to:
Pay compensation of an additional £350 for the trouble and upset caused. 
AmTrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If AmTrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman