DRN-3319657
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr M, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. F is also represented in 
bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as 
being those of F. 
What happened
F held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. It claimed on the business 
interruption section of the policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Fs claim as it thought F had closed due to the Government Regulations 
rather than because there was a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. 
F complained to Covea and said statistical analysis showed it was most likely that there had 
been a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. F referred to the High Court and Supreme 
Court judgments in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance 
test case to support its view that statistical analysis was sufficient to demonstrate Covid-19 
most likely occurred at its premises. 
Covea said the judgments didnt impact the outcome of Fs claim because the courts 
considered clauses that required the disease to be within a radius, or vicinity, rather than at 
the insured premises. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, F brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think it had shown its closure was most likely due to a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
F asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Fs claim.
Fs policy provides cover for business interruption as a result of:
the occurrence at the Premises of food or drink poisoning vermin pests 
defective sanitation or any human infections or contagious disease (excluding 
AIDS or any AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the Local or 
Government Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is a human infectious or contagious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover 
for Fs claim, the interruption to Fs business would need to be as a result of a case of Covid-
19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
F said an actuarial model was deemed by the courts to be an acceptable way to establish 
causation and satisfy the burden of proof. However, the courts considered clauses where the 
disease was required to have occurred within a radius, or the vicinity, of the insured 
premises and not where the disease needed to have occurred at the premises. 
I do note Fs point around the prevalence of Covid-19 in the community at the time. And its 
possible that someone had sustained the disease and been on the premises. But I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that the rates of Covid-19 in the wider community 
demonstrate that it was more likely than not that the particular individuals that attended Fs 
premises had sustained the disease at the time they were on those premises. I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable, in this particular case, to say that Covea had come to an 
incorrect decision on Fs claim based on this argument. 
I havent seen anything from F to indicate that there was a particular case of Covid-19 at its 
premises. So, I dont think F has shown that Covid-19 most likely occurred at its premises 
and therefore the policy doesnt provide cover for its claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that F was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Fs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman