DRN-3044243
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably 
refused to pay all her claim for vet costs and the subsequent euthanasia of her dog under 
her pet policy.
What happened
Ms B took out a life time policy with Red Sands in 2017 for her dog. It had an exclusion 
imposed following a claim which excluded all claims with respect to heart conditions from 9 
March 2017. The policy also excluded any claim relating to any pre-existing conditions that 
first showed clinical signs before the start date of the policy. It also had an annual condition 
limit of £6,000 per year.
Ms Bs dog became seriously ill in August and September 2018, necessitating Ms B to visit 
varying vets and incurring significant vet bills. Red Sands paid the claims relating to 
investigating and treating pneumonia and pancreatitis, but it said the rest of her claim costs 
being over £6,000 wasnt covered as it related to treatment for a new heart condition. It also 
said because of her dogs age, the subsequent claim for euthanasia was also excluded 
given the limitation on that benefit in the policy.  
Ms B didnt think was fair and she was in financial difficulties as a result. So, she 
complained. Red Sands didnt think it had to pay any more, so Ms B brought her complaint 
to us. Ultimately the investigator didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong. Ms B 
disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Ms B will be. And I am so sorry for 
the loss of her dog also. However, my role is to see if Red Sands has done anything wrong 
given the terms and conditions of the policy and here in Ms Bs case, I dont think it has.
As the investigator explained given the age of Ms Bs dog, any costs in relation to 
euthanasia simply isnt covered, given the policy wording and the fact her dog was 11 years 
of age since he was born in 2006.
 What is not covered?
 Death
Death due to illness of your pet aged 8 years or older.
Therefore, if the policy specifically excludes something as clearly as this, I have no authority 
to override such a clause. The simple fact is that although this policy did cover the death of a 
pet, it was limited to pets under the age of eight years old at the time of death. Insurers are 
entitled to decide what they want to cover and also how that might be limited in different 
situations. This condition limitation is worded clearly, and I dont consider it difficult to 
understand. Also, such a term is not unusual in pet policies as most of them do limit the 
death benefit in this way based on the age of the pet insured. Consequently, I dont consider 
Red Sands did anything wrong in refusing to pay Ms Bs costs for this part of her claim. 
Turning now to costs claimed for treating Ms Bs dog up until the time he was put to sleep 
throughout August and September 2018. These costs can only be covered if they dont 
relate to any pre-existing conditions and here in Ms Bs case, any exclusion imposed also, 
as exclusions are imposed based on any pre-existing medical conditions that are in the vet 
history.
Given the vet history on Ms Bs dog, Red Sands said it wouldnt cover any heart conditions. 
Its clear this vet history wasnt disclosed at the time Ms B took out the policy but was 
disclosed at the time she made a claim.  The exclusion reads as follows:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Heart Conditions with effect from 9th
March 2017.
As the investigator explained, given the pre-existing conditions exclusion detailed in the 
policy terms, Red Sands is entitled to refuse to cover pre-existing conditions. And its entitled 
to impose them retrospectively too, given the policy terms. Namely the due to following:
Please note if your pet first showed any clinical signs or had an accident, injury or an 
illness, or was diagnosed with a condition within the first 14 days or prior to the 
commencement date, we reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy in 
respect of this clinical sign, accident, injury, illness or condition.
Again, this type of clause is in virtually every pet policy, so its not unusual. And again, 
insurers do always have the right to decide what risks they want to cover and what they 
dont. Once thats explained in the policy conditions, there is nothing wrong with that.
These policies are sold on whats called an unadvised basis which means its up to the 
consumer to decide whether the cover offered meet their needs. No advice is provided by 
the insurer on this point either.
In order to ensure insurers dont unwittingly single out any individual policyholder or any 
individual pet being insured when relying on pre-existing conditions, insurers follow their own 
internal underwriting guides. Red Sands is no different. This ensures they treat all 
policyholders and the relevant pre-existing health conditions of their pet, the same. The way 
underwriting guides work is that they tend to exclude conditions affecting a body part, rather 
than any specific conditions. So here Red Sands, in line with its own underwriting guide, 
would not cover any conditions affecting the heart of Ms Bs dog. So, it doesnt matter that 
the eventual condition causing the claim was a different and indeed a new heart condition 
that what Ms Bs dog suffered from previously, it remains that it was a heart condition and 
any condition relating this dogs heart was excluded given his previous vet history. 
The vet history on Ms Bs dog was complicated and there is doubt her dog was suffering 
poor health from several conditions. However, the evidence is clear in my view from claim 
form the referral vet submitted for its treatment of Ms Bs dog. It states that the diagnosis of 
the condition for treatment between 14 and 19 September, namely the claim, was 
endocarditis. Theres also no question that this is condition relating to the heart. And there 
is no dispute that conditions relating to this dogs heart were excluded. Furthermore, her dog 
was referred to this more specialist vet to investigate the symptoms the vets who organised 
this referral were concerned about. Given this is a referral vet diagnosis, it also carries more 
weight. Red Sands is entitled to rely on what the vets say as that comprises the evidence for the 
claim it is being asked to pay. If Ms B doesnt agree with what any of the vets said, that she 
consulted for treatment of her dog, then thats a matter between her and the vet in question, 
its not matter which Red Sands is obliged to investigate on her behalf. 
Ms B claimed for travel expenses in relation to this claim, but since the cause of the claim is 
excluded, it follows the travel claim is also excluded. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman