DRN-1083895
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) failed to send her the maturity pack 
before the end of a two-year fixed rate cash ISA. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a two-year fixed rate cash ISA with YBS in April 2017. The end date for the 
fixed rate was 30 April 2019. YBS says it sent Mrs S a maturity pack containing her options 
on 12 April 2019. 
Mrs S called YBS on 30 April 2019 and explained she hadn't received its maturity pack. The 
advisor confirmed the maturity information had already been sent and discussed options 
available to Mrs S. The advisor said she would send out another maturity pack and that 
interest could be backdated if necessary. Mrs S raised a complaint. 
YBS responded to Mrs S' complaint on 15 May 2019 but said it had sent her the relevant 
information on 12 April 2019. YBS apologised that Mrs S had been left on hold for too long 
when she called and sent her a cheque for £25. Mrs S later transferred the ISA elsewhere.
Mrs S asked our service to look at her complaint and it was passed to an investigator. He 
accepted YBS had sent Mrs S the maturtiy pack as it claimed and didn't uphold Mrs S' 
complaint. As Mrs S didn't accept the investigator's view, her complaint has been referred to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this complaint. All parties broadly 
agree about they key events and dates. Mrs S has firmly set out her view that YBS didn't 
send the maturity pack as it claims. YBS, in turn, says it wrote to Mrs S on 12 April 2019 and 
sent the maturity pack again on 30 April 2019. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs S as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter, but I've 
reviewed the same systems evidence as the investigator. I've also seen a copy of YBS' 
maturity pack and it's correctly addressed, in line with the details this service holds. So, 
whilst I understand Mrs S didn't receive two maturity packs, I have to balance that against 
systems evidence that shows they were sent to her by YBS. 
Where information is unclear or incomplete, I'll base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred based on all the available 
evidence and information. In this case, I'm satisfied YBS did write to Mrs S on 12 April 2019 
in advance of the 30 April 2019 maturity date of her fixed rate ISA. I haven't found YBS 
unfairly withheld information about Mrs S' ISA options before the end of the fixed rate. 
I've listened to the call recording from 30 April 2019 when YBS' advisor discussed Mrs S' 
options. In response to the investigator Mrs S said YBS had failed to correctly explain their options for moving the ISA to a different business. But YBS' advisor explained Mrs S had the 
option to leave the ISA, select a new product or close the account. I thought the advisor 
gave Mrs S the necessary information. 
I've listened to all the available call recordings but I didn't hear anything to show YBS' 
advisors were rude or unprofessional. I thought YBS sought to provide the information Mrs S 
asked for, along with assurances it had written to her with the maturity pack. 
I note that YBS told Mrs S it would back date interest to 1 May 2019 if she selected a 
different product with it. I think that shows it was trying to work with Mrs S to ensure there 
was no loss caused by the delay. 
YBS sent Mrs S a cheque for £25 to apologise for the length of time she was placed on hold. 
As I haven't found that YBS failed to send its maturity pack to Mrs S and I think it has dealt 
with this complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to do anything else. I'm satisfied £25 fairly reflects 
the length of time Mrs S was placed on hold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman