DRN-1786544
The complaint
Mr L complains that CIA Insurance Services Ltd (CIA) mis-sold him a commercial property 
insurance policy and an exclusion clause, wasnt made clear. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr L renewed a landlords insurance policy with CIA. He was sent all the 
documents via email, as well as a link to the policy booklet. In October 2019, he made a 
claim as one of his tenants pets had caused damage in the home. He was told that the 
claim wouldnt be covered as there was a specific exclusion in the policy, that didnt cover 
damage caused by pets.
Mr L complained to CIA, as he said that the full document hadnt been sent to him when he 
renewed the policy. And the key exclusions didnt mention anything about pet damage not 
being included. In its final response, CIA said that a summary of the insurance contract was 
sent to him with the advice to look at the full cover, terms, conditions and exclusions 
contained within the policy documentation. It also said that there was a link which provided 
details of the policy wording and highlighted the policy exclusions. And one of the exclusions 
was damaged caused by pets. 
Mr L was unhappy about this as he told CIA that he had other policies which made it clear 
that pets were excluded from cover, in a way that this one didnt. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. 
He concluded that CIA did make Mr L aware of the policy terms and the exclusion clause 
was contained within those terms. So, there was nothing further that he could reasonably or 
fairly ask CIA to do to resolve the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He reiterated that on the other policies that he held 
(albeit different insurers) the pet exclusion clause was clearly shown and on this policy it 
wasnt. And he assumed that if the pet exclusion was significant enough to be listed clearly 
in one policy then it should remain consistent throughout. So, Mr L asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr L, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should first explain that when dealing with a mis- sale complaint, this service has to make 
its decisions based upon what actually happened when the policy was sold. What shouldve 
happened and whether CIA did something wrong. Finally, whether Mr L lost out as a result. 
The objective is to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable.
I asked CIA how it had sold the policy to Mr L and it confirmed that the policy was sold over 
the phone. I have listened to a copy of the call recording between the parties, which lasts 
less than four minutes. What is of note is that Mr L said that this was a renewal of his 
existing policy. He confirmed to the call handler that there were no changes to his 
circumstances within the last 12 months and no changes required to the type of cover he 
needed. Payment was taken and he was told that the policy documents would be emailed to 
him. 
Having listened to the recording, CIA didnt provide any advice regarding the risk or details of 
the policy. Mr L has confirmed that he was asked a number of questions regarding the 
tenants and the property. So, on this basis I think that CIA provided a non-advised sale. This 
means it provided a policy that didnt give any information regarding the risk or details of the 
policy. Which meant that the onus fell on Mr L to ensure that the policy he wanted to renew 
would be sufficient for his needs. 
I have reviewed the renewal documents sent to Mr L in July 2019. Attached to the covering 
letter were several documents, with the letter indicating in bold writing, that the full policy 
document could be accessed online by following the included link. Ive also noticed that the 
letter invited Mr L to read all the documents carefully. 
Its not disputed that the insurance product information document (IPID), which only provides 
a summary of the insurance contract, didnt refer to the pet exclusion clause. But the letter 
indicated that once the link to the policy booklet was accessed, the full terms and conditions 
of the policy  which would have included information regarding the pet exclusion clause, 
could be accessed. So, I think that CIA did provide enough information for Mr L to initially 
decide whether to access the link and also access all the exclusions and conditions of the 
policy, if he wanted to. 
I have next looked at whether CIA did something wrong. CIA declined Mr Ls claim as it 
relied upon the pet exclusion clause which said: 
What is not covered: Maintenance and normal redecoration costs. Damage caused while 
the Property is Unoccupied. Damage which is specifically excluded elsewhere in Section 1. 
Damage caused by:  chewing, scratching, tearing or fouling by domestic pets;
I have considered whether this clause is unique or unusual and not in line with industry 
standards. If the term was deemed unusual or unique, then it would be reasonable for CIA to 
have highlighted this to Mr L. But CIA has confirmed that the clause is not considered to be 
an unusual or unique clause. Therefore, it wouldnt be mentioned during a sales call 
especially as it was advised in the policy wording. Consequently, I think its more likely than 
not that the clause isnt unusual or unique. And so, I dont think that CIA has done anything 
wrong by not further highlighting the exclusion clause to Mr L or in the IPID. 
Mr L has said that had he been made aware of the exclusion clause then he wouldnt have 
taken the policy. But I must consider that this policy was a renewal, with Mr L confirming that 
there were no changes that he required for cover to continue. CIA has confirmed that the 
insurer didnt change at renewal and that the terms were the same as the year before. So, I 
think that it wouldnt be reasonable for CIA to have to further highlight the exclusion clause 
as Mr L had held the same policy, on the same terms during the previous year.  Mr L also said that other policies that he held did highlight all exclusions on the IPID. I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to comment on other policies that Mr L holds, 
given that this complaint doesnt relate to those other policies. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that CIA has fairly and reasonably applied the 
exclusion clause to the claim, and it did make Mr L aware of the policy terms. So, I wont be 
asking CIA to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman