DRN-2361606
The complaint
Mr F complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr F was given a single loan by TFS in April 2018. He borrowed £5,000 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr F told TFS that he intended to use the loan to 
consolidate a number of other debts that he held.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
checks TFS had done were sufficient. But he concluded that better checks wouldnt have 
been likely to suggest that Mr F would be unable to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
So he didnt think that TFS had been wrong to give this loan to Mr F.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr F required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr F undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr F.
TFS gathered some information from Mr F before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. It used some industry statistical data to revise 
parts of Mr Fs declared expenditure upwards. And it checked his credit file to assess how 
much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed credit in the past.
Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Fs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient for TFS 
to achieve that aim  I think the checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of TFSs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
Mr F told TFS that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate a number of other debts. On his 
application form he provided TFS with details of eleven lenders that he intended to repay  
those repayments totalled £4,400. And when he spoke with TFS he explained that he would 
use the remainder of the loan to further reduce his outstanding balances on a credit card and 
short-term loan. 
The credit check results that TFS received showed the extent of Mr Fs past borrowing. 
Although he had generally managed his repayments well, I think the sheer number of loans 
and credit card accounts that Mr F had open should have caused concerns to the lender. 
Mr F himself explained to TFS that he had been a bit silly with money in the past but he 
went on to say that he was getting it all sorted now.
Im not persuaded that, given the purpose of the loan was to consolidate so many debts, 
TFS should have been significantly concerned by the information shown on Mr Fs credit 
check. But given it indicated that he had struggle to manage his money in the past I think 
there is an argument that it should have delved deeper into his finances before agreeing the 
loan. So Ive looked at Mr Fs bank statements, and what hes told us about his financial 
situation, to see what further checks would have shown TFS.At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS 
should have carried out  and in fact I think it is arguable whether further checks were 
needed at all. But if I were to conclude that TFS needed further evidence to corroborate what 
Mr F said was happening with his finances, looking at his bank statements would have been 
one way of achieving that - although there are of course many other ways that level of detail 
could be established. However I think that by looking at Mr Fs bank statements I can get a 
good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mr F has sent us copies of his bank statements from around the time the loan was agreed. 
Those statements show that he was indeed making repayments to a number of other 
lenders. But they dont show any other signs of financial distress such as payments regularly 
being returned unpaid or excessive use of an overdraft. Mr F says that he was suffering from 
a gambling addiction at that time. But the statements he has provided do not show evidence 
of those problems  I understand that Mr F used another account for transactions of that 
nature. So on balance, had TFS requested copies of Mr Fs bank statements, I think it most 
likely hed have provided the same statements he sent to us  not those showing problems 
with gambling.
So in summary, even if I thought that TFS should have done further checks before lending to 
Mr F, Im not persuaded that those checks would have led to his loan application being 
declined. Im very sorry to hear about the financial problems Mr F continues to face, but 
I cannot conclude that TFS acted irresponsibly in providing this loan to him. It was entitled to 
rely on the results of its checks, alongside the information Mr F provided about his finances. 
And that information didnt suggest that Mr F would find it difficult to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
TFS Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman