DRN-4039664
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they werent told their mortgage offer from Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) was about to expire. They ask that Halifax applies a lower interest rate 
product to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T applied to Halifax for a mortgage in late 2021. There were delays with their 
sale and purchase chain. Their mortgage offer expired at the end of May 2022, before their 
purchase completed. Mr T says their main issue is that Halifax didnt tell them this. It was 
their solicitor that told them the mortgage offer had expired.
Mr and Mrs T had to take out a product with a higher interest rate and higher monthly 
payments, and extend the term of their mortgage by three years. 
Halifax says it confirmed the date the mortgage offer would expire when it was issued. It 
says it cant agree to extend the mortgage offer on the same terms as the interest rate 
product is no longer available. Mr and Mrs T had to choose a product from the range 
available.
Our investigator said Halifax didnt have to notify Mr and Mrs T that the mortgage offer was 
about to expire. He said the expiry date was set out in the mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. Mr T said theyd been given misleading information about when 
the mortgage offer would expire. This meant they missed the opportunity to renew the 
mortgage offer in May or early June 2022 before rates increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T took mortgage advice in 2021. Halifax issued a mortgage illustration in mid-
December 2021 with a 10-year fixed interest rate product. This said the mortgage had to be 
taken out before 31 May 2022.
There were problems with Mr and Mrs Ts sale and purchase chain which were resolved in 
April 2022. Mr and Mrs T paid the product fee and the mortgage offer was issued on 21 April 
2022. 
Mr T says there was no mention that the mortgage offer would expire the following month. 
However, the mortgage offer says This offer will expire on 31 May 2022. If you have not 
taken out your mortgage by then, you will need to contact us to make new arrangements.
Mr T says their sale and purchase chain collapsed in April 2022. At the end of April 2022, he 
told Halifax theyd been told the property they wanted to buy wasnt actually available. And 
they might lose their purchaser.
Mr T contacted Halifax in early July 2022, saying their purchase was back on. He asked if 
there was anything outstanding on the mortgage arrangement. Halifax said there wasnt. 
This was wrong. The mortgage offer had expired. 
The product Mr and Mrs T had selected in late 2021 was no longer available. Mr and Mrs T 
had to select a new product so that a new mortgage offer could be issued. Halifax says as 
the products available to Mr and Mrs T didnt change between early July 2022 and mid-
August 2022, its error in early July 2022 didnt cause loss to Mr and Mrs T. I think thats right. 
Mr T says it was an earlier error that led to them missing out on a better rate. Mr T emailed 
Halifax at the end of April 2022. He said theyd been told the property they hoped to buy 
wasnt available. Mr T asked if the mortgage offer could be transferred to another property, if 
the mortgage offer would expire and whether any fees were refundable if he couldnt 
proceed with the mortgage. Mr T says if hed been told at this point that the mortgage offer 
would expire in May 2022 hed have renewed the mortgage offer at the rates available at 
that time.
Halifaxs adviser confirmed that the mortgage offer could be transferred to another property, 
subject to a valuation, and fees would be refunded if the application was cancelled. She also 
said In the meantime, your mortgage offer is usually valid for six months. The adviser could 
have suggested Mr T check the expiry date in their mortgage offer. I dont think though that 
this makes it fair and reasonable to require Halifax to apply a lower interest rate to Mr and 
Mrs Ts mortgage or pay compensation. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs T would have been in a position to renew their mortgage offer 
before rates increased. Mr Ts email said the property they wanted to purchase wasnt 
available, and in mid-May 2022 he told Halifax they hadnt found another suitable property. It 
wasnt until early July 2022 that Mr T said their purchase of the original property was back 
on. Theyd have needed to specify the property for a new mortgage offer to be issued.
But in any case, as I said, Halifax did tell Mr and Mrs T when the mortgage offer would 
expire. This was set out in the mortgage offer. I think its reasonable to expect borrowers to 
read the mortgage offer, which sets out the key terms of the mortgage. 
Mr T says hed have expected a reminder that the offer was due to expire. However, the 
mortgage offer was issued on 21 April 2022  only about a week before his exchange of 
emails with Halifaxs adviser.
Mr T says he interpreted the six months as starting when he paid the product fee. Most likely 
Mr T waited until April 2022 to pay the product fee because, understandably, he didnt want 
to pay the fee until the problems with the sale and purchase chain were resolved. I dont 
think its reasonable to say that Mr Ts delay in paying the product fee ought to have 
extended the period that the mortgage offer  and the interest rate product  were available.
The various problems Mr and Mrs T had with their sale and purchase chain must have been 
stressful. I can understand they were upset to be told by their solicitor in August 2022 the 
mortgage offer had expired. But the mortgage offer clearly said that it expired on 31 May 
2022. I dont think I can fairly find that Halifax didnt make Mr and Mrs T aware of this. 
I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to apply a lower 
interest rate to Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage or pay compensation to them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman