DRN-2878590
The complaint
Miss Y complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn). She says Moneybarn told her she could reject 
the car and to leave it with the dealership and she is disappointed they have subsequently 
disputed this and chased her for payment.
Miss Y has been represented by her mother in this complaint but for ease, and because the 
finance agreement is in Miss Ys name, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss Y, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss Y acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I understand that Moneybarn have been unable to find the call Miss Y says she had with 
them when she was told she could reject the car. As that call recording isnt available Ive 
considered the evidence that is available in order to make a decision on this issue. Ive had 
access to Moneybarns file notes which show all communications with Miss Y.
I dont think there is evidence that Moneybarn told Miss Y she could reject the vehicle and 
end the finance agreement she had with them.
I can see she told the business she was having problems with the car. A file note generated 
on 5 August 2019 notes that the dealership have offered to repair faults on the car and a 
further note on 10 September 2019 says Miss Ys representative had explained she was still 
having problems with it entering limp mode and with a gearbox and handbrake fault. It adds 
that the consumer has explained if no courtesy car will leave vehicle on dealerships 
forecourt and the adviser notes that theyve explained the risks of taking that action.
I dont think that suggests the business told Miss Y she could reject the car.
Ive seen that the business sent frequent missed payment emails and text messages after 
that. Messages were sent in October, November and December 2019 and a default notice 
was sent in January 2020. But it wasnt until late January 2020 that Miss Ys representative 
got in touch with the business. I think it must have been very clear over the preceding 
months that the business hadnt accepted rejection of the car and, as payments hadnt been 
received, I cant say Moneybarn were unreasonable sending arrears emails and a default.
Overall I am not persuaded sufficient evidence has been provided to suggest Moneybarn 
agreed to the rejection of the car or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I dont think 
they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman