DRN-1745426
The complaint
Mr T complains Skrill Ltd is not allowing him access to his account until a debt has been paid 
off on a historic account.
What happened
Mr T complained to Skrill about unauthorised access on his account ending 710.  Skrill 
agreed to block the account and Mr T suffered no financial loss as a result.
Skrill then reviewed Mr Ts account and said it found a historic account ending 674 in Mr Ts 
name.  It had an outstanding balance of just under 100 Euros.  It told Mr T this would need to 
be paid off before it allowed him access to his current account. But Mr T said he had not 
made these transactions and as far as he was aware, the account had been closed.
Mr T complained and when that complaint was not upheld, he came to this service. He said 
he had not made the transactions and Skrill was acting unfairly in not allowing him to access 
his current account.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Skrill to do anymore  so the matter was referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether Skrill continues to have a banking relationship with Mr T is a matter for Skrill.  I 
cannot direct that it does.  However, I can look at why it is currently restricting Mr Ts access 
to his current account and whether this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having considered the evidence, I cant see anything to suggest Skrill has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably. 
Mr T isnt disputing the actual account itself  he says it was his and he closed it because he 
had no use for it.  But if a fraudster had accessed Mr Ts old account, I think it would be 
more likely that they would abuse the account for as much as possible and not just stop at 
just under 100 Euros. 
I think, on balance, the payments from Mr Ts account were made by Mr T  so on that 
basis, I think its fair for Skrill to ask that it be repaid before he can access his current 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman