DRN-4351159
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
I understand Mr W saw an advert for an investment company, F, on social media. He replied 
to the advert and was contacted by their agent. They guided him to download remote access 
software, which they used to help set up a cryptocurrency wallet in his name  so he could 
purchase cryptocurrency to load to the scam platform.
Mr W says he was shown Fs platform, and also received two credits. This reassured him F 
were legitimate. And the promised returns of 10-20% encouraged him to keep investing. 
Unfortunately, F were operating a scam.
Mr W says he authorised the payments initially, but was later tricked into passing over or 
entering OTP codes on the understanding this was necessary for him to receive funds. 
Instead, money was debited from his credit and debit cards.
In total, accounting for the credits, Mr W has lost over £108,000 to the scam. Most payments 
were made from his first direct current account. But one payment, which he says was 
unauthorised, was also taken from his credit card account.
Mr W called first direct following the card payments and said they should have been credits. 
First direct said it couldnt help due to him sharing the OTP codes. Mr W subsequently 
engaged a lawyer and attempted to take legal action against F, but didnt succeed in 
recovering any funds. He subsequently complained to first direct that it failed to protect him 
against the scam.
First direct didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it couldnt help as the funds were 
transferred to his wallet, not directly to the scammers.
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She thought the payments had all been authorised. And she didnt think first 
direct could have stopped the scam  noting that it had called Mr W about the scam 
payments on at least two occasions and he had wanted to proceed. And hed gone on to pay 
a further £6,000 to F several months later after having been told they were a scam.
Mr W appealed the investigators outcome. He said first directs enquiries during the calls 
didnt go far enough, and if they had  such as establishing that the payments were 
ultimately going to F  it would have realised he was being scammed. 
In August 2023, I issued my provisional decision explaining I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint for these reasons:
Ill first consider those payments which its accepted were authorised. In line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), first direct is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So, although Mr W ultimately 
lost the funds to the scam, the starting position is that hes liable for the payments.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment.
Here, we know first direct identified several of the scam payments as unusual  and it 
discussed them with Mr W over the phone. So the key here is whether it reasonably 
did enough to protect him at that point. If it didnt, Id need to consider whether further 
appropriate intervention was likely to have succeeded in uncovering the scam.
Having listened to the calls, I agree with Mr W that first direct should have probed 
further before agreeing to complete the payments. However, Im not persuaded that 
doing so would have succeeded in preventing his further losses.
There are a few reasons for this. First of all, Im mindful Mr W told first direct he had 
done his research and was satisfied the company he was paying was legitimate. But 
if he had looked F up at the time, it appears he would have seen that the UK financial 
services regulator, the FCA, had issued a warning that F were suspected of 
operating in the UK without the required authorisation.
While Mr W thinks this means first direct should have established the scam during 
the call, I wouldnt reasonably have expected it to look up the companies or complete 
research on his behalf. Instead, Id expect it to guide him on what he could do to 
check that the company was legitimate. But as he sounded confident that he had 
already done adequate due diligence, Im not persuaded its likely that further 
questioning or warnings from the bank would have prompted him to complete further 
research. Hes told us he was already very persuaded by Fs website and the credits 
hed received.
Mr W also told first direct he hadnt been asked to give a code to anyone, which I 
understand wasnt correct; he had shared an OTP code with F to authorise an earlier 
card payment. He mentioned to first direct over the phone that he knew some people 
were sceptical about cryptocurrency. And Ive seen other references to him having 
been coached by the scammer. That suggests he was unlikely to have divulged the 
full details of what he was doing  which would have made it harder for first direct to 
have identified the scam.
I also think its significant that, several months after the scam ended, Mr W paid a 
further £6,000 to F (via another account) in a bid to get them to release his funds. By 
that point, I can see he had already reported his concerns about F to the bank. And 
his lawyer had told him they thought F were operating fraudulently. As Mr W 
continued to pay in similar circumstances, after F had all but been confirmed as a 
scam, I dont consider it likely first direct would have succeeded in preventing him 
from making further payments even if it had completed more extensive intervention.
However, Ive considered what Mr W has reported about the card transactions made 
towards the end of the scam  which he says were unauthorised. Its important to 
clarify that, as the PSRs set out, authorisation depends on whether the transactions 
were authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them.Authentication doesnt seem to be in dispute; its agreed that the payments were 
processed correctly. So whether the payments were authorised comes down to 
whether Mr W consented to them. I appreciate he says he didnt. But consent has a 
particular meaning under the PSRs. It happens when Mr W, or someone acting on 
his behalf, completes the agreed steps to make a payment.
That means if Mr W completed the steps of filling in his card details, and then the 
OTP, he would have authorised the payment  regardless of whether he understood 
that completing those steps would result in the payment being taken. 
The testimony I have about what Mr W did in relation to these payments is a little 
unclear. There seem to be some contradictions in what hes said at certain points. I 
dont doubt hes given us his honest recollections. As he was being tricked, that has 
understandably caused some confusion about what happened. But it does have a 
bearing on my judgment  given that, where information is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must decide whats more likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
To expand on this: according to the call note from when Mr W reported the credit 
card payment to first direct, he said it should have been a credit rather than a 
withdrawal. But he also said he had entered his card details and input the OTP. That 
suggests to me the payment was authorised, in line with the PSRs, even though 
Mr W was tricked into making it. 
That would also fit with what Mr W has told us about remote access. There is 
mention of F using this to guide him on what to do. And my understanding is that, 
given his phone, F wouldnt have been able to take control and complete the steps 
themselves using remote access.
I also note that, in the letter his lawyer sent F, they referred to the credit card 
payment as being unauthorised  but not the debit card payments. Its unclear why 
this allegation was omitted. But as above, if the same process was followed for the 
debit card payments, they would also be considered authorised. And I think its likely 
the same process was followed, as the payments seem to have all happened in quick 
succession during the same call with F, who guiding Mr W on what to do.
That said, I have seen other occasions where Mr W seems to have disputed sharing 
or inputting his card details, and instead suggests he passed the OTP codes to F on 
the understanding he would receive credits. But even if he didnt authorise the 
payments, first direct wouldnt be liable under the PSRs if the payments were made 
as a result of him failing with intent, or gross negligence, to comply with the account 
terms or keep his personalised security details safe.
Im mindful here that, from what Ive seen, Mr W shared an OTP code with F earlier 
to authorise a payment. So I do question why he would have thought that doing this 
again would result in him receiving a credit when it had been previously resulted in a 
payment being taken.
Im also mindful that, in order to make all these payments, it seems that Mr W would 
have needed to share the OTP numerous times on the same day  on the 
understanding he would then receive credits. But had he checked his accounts in 
between providing these codes, he would have seen that he hadnt received anything 
 and money had instead been taken.The text that accompanied the code also started by saying NEVER share this code. 
It also set out that it was to make a purchase, including setting out the amount and 
the retailer. Mr W says he didnt read the message. But given how the message 
started, I think he must have seen the warning from first direct.
Furthermore, when calling first direct after he realised what had happened, he 
himself said he was deeply suspicious during the call. So he thought something was 
wrong. Yet, if it wasnt him inputting the details directly, he was repeatedly sharing 
OTP codes  despite the message warning him not to do so  without verifying if he 
was in fact receiving credits. And having also followed the same steps prior to make, 
rather than receive, a payment. So I think he did show a serious disregard of the risk, 
amounting to gross negligence. So regardless, Im not persuaded first direct is liable 
to refund him for these payments.
Ive also considered if first direct could have done more to help Mr W recover the 
funds when he reported the scam. But as the funds were sent via his cryptocurrency 
wallet, they didnt remain in the account they were sent to directly, meaning first 
direct couldnt have retrieved the transfers. Not could it have raised successful claims 
for the card payments  as again, such claims would only be considered against the 
merchant paid directly. The merchant who provided the wallet isnt linked to F, and it 
provided the expected service by crediting Mr Ws account in line with the payment 
requests received. So unfortunately first direct couldnt have recovered the loss.
I invited both parties to provide further comments or evidence. First direct responded to 
accept my findings, but Mr W didnt agree. He has raised further points, as Ill cover below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. This is largely for the same 
reasons given in my provisional decision  as set out above, and which forms part of my final 
decision. So Ill now focus on addressing Mr Ws response to my provisional decision.
In doing so, I only intend to summarise Mr Ws response. But Id reassure him that I have 
read and considered his response in its entirety. If I dont reference a particular point or 
piece of evidence, that isnt because I havent considered it. Rather, its because I dont 
consider it necessary to explain my decision. 
Mr W says his essential point is that first direct failed to appropriately intervene with these 
payments. And if it had asked basic questions, it could and would have prevented him from 
making the payments. 
As my provisional decision explained, I do agree with Mr W that first direct didnt do enough. 
But that alone doesnt mean I consider it fair to expect first direct to reimburse Mr W for his 
losses. That depends on whether I think first directs failings had a material impact on him.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded they did. I cant look at 
the situation with the benefit of hindsight; I must think about what was likely to have 
happened at the time. Given Mr Ws confidence in F, and his interactions with first direct 
during the call Ive listened to, Im not persuaded better intervention was likely to have 
persuaded him there was cause for concern such that he would have looked into F further 
and realised it was a scam.Mr W is unhappy my decision didnt reference that first direct lost the recording of an earlier 
intervention it says took place. Where information is incomplete, I must decide what is more 
likely to have happened. Without the call, I cant know whether first direct did enough. But I 
have listened to an intervention call a few days later. And based on that, I concluded that 
first direct didnt do enough. So Ive not made an assumption, based on this lack of 
information, to Mr Ws detriment. Rather, Ive made the judgment that  as it didnt do 
enough in the call Ive listed to  its unlikely it did a sufficient job previously. 
Mr W questions my reference to the £6,000 he paid F later on. I appreciate the purpose of 
the payment was different, as he was hoping to recoup his loss. But I do still consider it 
relevant to my determination of whether first direct ought to have been able to prevent the 
earlier loss. The fact he continued to pay F, after being warned it was likely a scam, makes it 
appear less likely that first direct ought to have been able to dissuade him at an earlier 
stage. 
If guided on what to check, Mr W says he would have found the FCA warning for F and 
therefore have realised he had been scammed. While thats certainly possible, Im not 
persuaded its more likely than not  which is the standard on which Im making my decision. 
As mentioned, Mr W told first direct he had done his research and, in my view, didnt sound 
particularly open to completing further checks. He has told us the scammer had already 
gone to great lengths to gain his trust and appear legitimate. I understand why that naturally 
affected his actions, and Im aware how sophisticated and convincing these scams can be. 
But, as explained in greater detail in my provision decision above, that does also affect my 
judgment of how he was likely to have responded to further probing by his bank, and 
whether he was likely to have taken further action in response. 
During the call, it sounded to me as though Mr W had been primed to expect pushback and 
scepticism from his bank  but was determined to continue. This is a clever, and often 
effective, scam tactic. But I have to bear in mind that a banks ability to effectively engage 
and uncover a scam will be guided on what it is told when speaking to the customer.
I appreciate this comes down to a judgment call, as we cant know for sure what would have 
happened if first direct had done more. But I have made this judgment impartially, based on 
the available evidence. And, having carefully weighed this up, Im not persuaded that further 
probing by first direct about the payments would likely have uncovered the scam.
In response to specific questioning during the intervention call Ive listened to, Mr W didnt 
reveal some details that likely would have raised alarm bells  such as that he had shared a 
code with the merchant. And he seemed to be expecting scepticism from the bank. So Im 
not persuaded he would have been particularly forthcoming about what he was doing, even 
if questioned further. Im therefore not persuaded first direct would have known enough to be 
able to issue an effective warning or guidance on what the risks were, and what else Mr W 
should do, such that the scam would have been uncovered. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr W. He has clearly lost out to a cruel and 
sophisticated scam, which has had a big impact on him. Both in terms of financial loss, and 
the emotional impact of having been tricked. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
its fair for me to expect first direct to take responsibility for his losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman