DRN-1735410
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) didnt carry out 
adequate checks before lending to her and that the loans werent affordable. 
What happened
This complaint is about the six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mrs R between 
September and December 2017. The loans are listed below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 04/09/2017 18/09/2018 £800
2 10/10/2017 29/06/2018 £150
3 12/10/2017 29/12/2017 £100
4 20/10/2017 30/11/2017 £50
5 30/11/2017 18/09/2018 £300
6 29/12/2017 18/09/2018 £200
Mrs R says that Sunny should have been aware that the loans were unaffordable and that 
she would need to borrow more to make her repayments. She said the loans trapped her in 
a spiral of debt.
Sunny said it carried out adequate creditworthiness and affordability checks before the loans 
were provided and that the repayments were affordable for Mrs R. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint.
Sunny provided a counter offer following our adjudicators view. It offered to refund the 
interest and charges on loans five and six and adjust her credit file for these loans. Mrs R 
didnt accept this offer.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs Rs first loan was for £800 repayable over six instalments of £257. Before the loan was 
provided information was gathered on Mrs Rs income and expenses. I find the checks were 
proportionate. 
Mrs Rs monthly income was recorded as £750. I think the size of the repayments compared 
to Mrs Rs income should have raised concerns as the repayments took a significant portion 
of her income. The loan was for a six months meaning she would need to maintain this level 
or repayments over that term. I think this should have raised concerns that the loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Mrs R and so I do not think this loan should have been provided.
Mrs R took out the second loan while the first was still outstanding and so further increased 
the amounts she was due to repay. Within the next ten days Mrs R took out two further loans 
and given none of the loans had been repaid, her total borrowing increased to £1,100. I note 
that Mrs R reported an increase in her monthly income before the third loan was provided, 
however the total amounts she needed to repay on her loans still accounted for a significant 
portion of her income. Because of this I dont think that any of these loans should have been 
considered sustainably affordable.
Mrs R continued to borrow taking out two further loans in the next two months. The fifth loan 
was taken out on the day the fourth loan was repaid suggesting that Mrs R was needing to 
borrow again to fill the hole left by the repayment of the previous loan. I note that Sunny agreed to the upholding of loans five and six.
Overall, I do not find that Sunny should have considered the loans sustainably affordable for 
Mrs R.  
 Putting things right
 refund all interest and charges Mrs R paid on the loans (one to six);
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
 
remove any negative information about loans one to six from Mrs Rs credit file once 
they have been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman