DRN-2437872
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Qmetric Group Limited (trading as Policy Expert) avoided their 
home insurance policy and refused to pay their claim when their house was destroyed in a 
fire.
Both Mr and Mrs M are named policyholders on their Policy Expert policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. Their legal advisors are representing them in this 
complaint, but for simplicity Ill refer mainly to Mr M from here onward.
Similarly, Policy Expert appointed legal advisors and a claims handling company in this 
matter, but  again for simplicity  Ill refer mainly to Policy Expert in my decision. Any 
reference to Policy Expert should be taken to include any of its agents or legal advisors.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a home insurance policy with Policy Expert in February 2018 through 
a price comparison website. In June 2018, their home was destroyed in a fire and they made 
a claim on their insurance.
Policy Expert investigated the claim over the next 18 months. In February 2020, it wrote to 
Mr and Mrs M with its findings. It said Mr M had answered a key question incorrectly when 
he took out the policy. Mr M was asked to reply to the statement, Your property is NOT 
used for business purposes. He answered, I agree. 
However, Policy Experts investigation found that:
Mr and Mrs Ms property was registered with the Scottish Agricultural and Rural 
Economy Directorate (SARED) as a farming business.
The farming business was registered with the Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs (DEFRA).
The farming business was also registered with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) for VAT. Mr and Mrs M claimed VAT relief on various items related to the 
property.
Mr M described the property as a working farm in interviews with its claims handling 
agents on 11 and 15 June 2018.
Mr Ms business accounts show that Mr and Mrs M sold lambs, ewes, puppies and 
eggs from the property.
Mr M received a tax rebate by offsetting losses on the farming business against other 
taxable income.
The business accounts show that Mr and Mrs M took drawings from the farming 
business.
Policy Expert said this showed Mr and Mrs M were running a business from the property. It 
said they had carelessly misrepresented the position when they took out the policy. Had it 
been aware of his farming activities, it wouldnt have offered them cover. This meant it was 
entitled to avoid their policy and decline the claim.
Policy Expert also said Mr and Mrs M made several false statements about their claim. For 
example, they said they did not trade livestock and the farming activities didnt provide an 
income. Making false statements breached the policy terms which also meant Policy Expert 
was entitled to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs M and their legal advisors dont accept this. They say, in summary, that:
There was no misrepresentation.
They carried out low-scale farming activities on their land. This wasnt a business.
They only intended to insure the residential premises (the house), not the 
agricultural buildings.
Mr Ms answers when taking out the policy only related to the house.
They werent carrying out any farming activities from the house.
The policy terms show the house was covered even though the agricultural buildings 
on the property werent.
Mr and Mrs M believe this means Policy Expert should settle their claim. When it refused to 
do so, they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with 
Policy Expert that there had been a misrepresentation when Mr M took out the policy. She 
agreed that this was a qualifying careless misrepresentation as Policy Expert had shown it 
wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs M cover if it had known about their farming activities. As 
such, she thought Policy Expert was entitled to void Mr and Mrs Ms policy and decline their 
claim. However, she thought it should refund the premiums they had paid, plus interest.
Policy Expert accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr and Mrs M did not, so the 
case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mr Ms legal advisors have made detailed arguments setting out why they believe there was 
no misrepresentation, or  if there was  why Policy Expert cant simply avoid the policy. Ive 
considered everything theyve said, however I dont think I need to comment on every point 
to reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on what I think are the key issues.The critical issue here is: was there a misrepresentation? Policy Expert says Mr M was 
running a farming business from the property and failed to disclose this, so misrepresented 
the position. Mr Ms legal advisors run three parallel arguments against this:
1. The farming was a hobby, not a business.
2. Even if the farming was considered a business, there was still no misrepresentation 
because Mr and Mrs M understood they were only insuring the house, not any other 
part of the farm: The house was not used for business purposes and therefore the 
answer given was correct.
3. Finally, even if there was a misrepresentation, the farming activities were so low 
scale that Policy Experts position that it wouldnt have insured Mr and Mrs M isnt 
reasonable.
My starting point is to look at the questions Mr M was asked when he took out the policy. 
Policy Expert has provided an annotated illustration of the purchase journey as well as a 
statement from its Head of Underwriting which included comments on this. Based on this, I 
can see that Mr M was asked the following questions:
On the price comparison site, Mr M was asked Is your place ever used for 
business?
Once Mr M had chosen the Policy Expert policy and clicked through to its website, Mr 
M was asked to confirm statements including, Your property is NOT used for 
business purposes.
Mr M answered No to the price comparison site question, and I agree to Policy Experts 
statement.
So, the first key question is: what is meant by business purposes? The guidance on the 
price comparison site advised, If you have business visitors to your home, run a business 
from home or if you have paying guests pick yes. Policy Expert says its guidance also 
covered this:
Business purposes means you are doing any of these: 
1) you are using the property to undertake business from (including child minding, 
private tuition & fostering); 
2) you have employees, business visitors or customers at the property; 
3) you store business stock or tools of trade at the property; 
4) you have paying guests at the property. 
If you are normally office based and occasionally work from home (e.g. paper work, 
telephone calls, computer work), we would not class this as using the property for 
business purposes.
Ive thought about this question and the guidance in relation to Mr Ms farming activities. Mr 
and Mrs M told Policy Expert they believed a business was something that makes money 
something that you make profit from. Their legal advisors point out that the DEFRA and 
SARED registration was simply a regulatory requirement because Mr M was keeping 
livestock. So Mr and Mrs M didnt consider their farming activities constituted a business.
I can accept that registration with DEFRA and SARED was an administrative requirement. 
However, the business was also registered for VAT. Policy Experts forensic accountant 
said, The activity was not required to register for VAT and concluded, The existence of the 
VAT registration supports the view that the intention was to treat the activity as a business. 
The email from Mr Ms accountant on 7 December 2018 explained that you received a tax 
rebate because you made losses in the business So I think the VAT registration and tax 
rebate suggests Mr Ms farming was a business activity, however small scale.Thats supported by the phone call between Mr M and Policy Experts claims handling agent 
on 11 June 2018. Mr Ms legal advisors said our investigator relied heavily on this call. 
They say Mr M was stating an administrative fact  that the farm was a registered business 
 and this shouldnt be interpreted as proof he was running a business. 
I understand this point. However, I think this ignores the full context of the conversation, 
including the lead up to the registered business comment. The full exchange was:
Policy Expert: With regards to  I know [claims handling agent] spoke to you briefly 
this morning with regards to  obviously, youre on farm land there.
Mr M: Yeah.
Policy Expert: Now, its not a working farm, is it?
Mr M: It is a working farm, yes.
Policy Expert: It is?
Mr M: Yes.
Policy Expert: So, is that used for a business there, is that  or is?
Mr M: Yeah, it is a registered business.
Policy Expert: It is a  oh, he gave me different information this morning. Whats the 
business name of the farm?
Mr M: [M] Farming.
Policy Expert: [M] Farming and thats actually a registered business that you
run, yourself?
Mr M: Yeah, its VAT registered as well, yeah.
Policy Expert: And youve still been trading there recently? Its all still?
Mr M: Yeah. Oh yes, hmmm hmm.
Policy Expert: Registered, right, okay, I just needed to get that information for
underwriters cause obviously, theyre carrying out their checks, etc., at the minute. 
So, what is?
Mr M: Yeah, I mean, if you need it, I can give you the name of my Accountant as 
well, if you need it.
Im conscious that Mr M took this call when he wasnt expecting it. However, the questions 
were straightforward and Mr Ms answers were spontaneous. He corrected Policy Experts 
agent when she suggested the farm wasnt a working farm, and agreed it was a registered 
business that was still trading. (Mr M confirmed this in the interview with the claims handling 
agent on 15 June 2018: I dont see how you could say its anything else other than a 
working farm, because it is a working farm.) So I dont think it was unreasonable for Policy 
Expert  or our investigator  to place some weight on this conversation.
Put another way, even if Mr M believed his farming was a hobby, he knew that M Farming 
was registered as a business with two government agencies (SARED, DEFRA), and that he 
was claiming business relief from a third (HMRC). When Policy Expert asked him if the farm 
was a trading business he immediately said yes. I find it difficult to understand why he gave 
a different answer when he took out the policy four months earlier.
I understand both sides arguments on whether Mr Ms farming was a business. But, on 
balance, I think Policy Experts conclusion that Mr M was running a small business from the 
farm was reasonable.
At this point, Ive considered Mr Ms second argument  that even if his farming activities 
constituted a business, there was no misrepresentation. This is because he believed 
references to property meant the house, so his answers were in relation to the house only.
I dont think it was a reasonable assumption for Mr M to think property referred to the house 
only. First, Policy Expert sent Mr M several policy documents when he took out the policy. It asked him to check these documents to make sure the policy was suitable. The policy 
booklet includes separate definitions for home and property:
Home: The main building which you live in, garages which are part of or attached to 
the main building, and outbuildings all within the boundaries of the address shown on 
your schedule.
Property: The risk address shown in your schedule which you are legally responsible 
for, including the land and gardens.
So even if Mr M initially thought he was answering questions about the house only, a review 
of the policy would confirm this wasnt correct.
Second, Policy Expert highlighted the Home Insurance guide on the price comparison 
website Mr M used. A section of the guide headed Down on the farm says:
If you run a farm, your house is not just your home, but also your business. You 
therefore need specialist cover. Farm insurance can be tailored to suit your individual 
requirements whether you live on a small holding or commercial dairy farm.
I dont know for certain if Mr M read this. However, he took out the policy online and didnt 
seek advice from either a broker or Policy Expert to make sure it was suitable. I also note a 
2017 home survey report advised Mr M to get separate insurance for the residential and 
agricultural buildings. So I think Mr M needed to be sure that the policy was suitable by 
reading whatever guidance was available. I think both the price comparison and Policy 
Expert websites gave helpful information about this.
Having considered all of that, I dont think Mr M took reasonable care when he answered the 
key question about whether the property was used for business purposes. Given Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances  in particular, the registration of the farm as a business with three 
government agencies   I think Mr M might reasonably have taken more care to check that 
the policy was suitable. I think there was enough information available to him to prompt this. 
The advice on the price comparison website indicated that a standard home insurance policy 
might not be appropriate for a small holding. Policy Experts website and policy documents 
showed that only business administration inside the home was covered.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr M made a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policy.
Next, I need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. In other 
words, did it make a difference?
Policy Expert says, Had we been aware that they were operating a farming business at the 
Property we would not have offered Mr and Mrs [M] insurance as this type of risk is 
unacceptable to us. The statement from its Head of Underwriting included Policy Experts 
underwriting guidance at the time relating to Agricultural and/or farming use at the Risk 
Address. This says the policy application will be declined if the customer answered Yes to 
any of several questions, including Is any part of the property a working farm? and Is there 
any livestock including horses, sheep or chickens kept on any part of the property? In other 
words, Policy Experts underwriting guidance meant that if it had known about Mr Ms 
farming activities, it wouldnt have offered him cover.
Mr Ms legal advisors have argued that references to agricultural buildings and stables in 
the policy shows that Policy Experts statement that it doesnt insure farms cant be right. 
And they dont accept that Policy Expert would have refused to insure Mr and Mrs Ms low 
risk farming activities if it had conducted further enquiries. They say this means Policy Experts position that it wouldnt have offered the insurance is flawed.
Im afraid I dont agree. I think the statement from Policy Experts Head of Underwriting is 
clear  if Policy Expert had known about Mr Ms farming, it wouldnt have offered cover. 
Given this evidence, Im satisfied that Policy Expert wouldnt have insured Mr and Mrs Ms 
house if Mr M had answered the business purposes question correctly. For this reason, Im 
satisfied that this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Policy Expert said Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate. So its not saying 
Mr M deliberately sought to mislead it. From what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs M 
set out to deliberately mislead Policy Expert. But by not providing any information about the 
farming business I think they failed to take reasonable care when they took out the policy.
Ive looked at the actions Policy Expert can take under CIDRA. Where a qualifying 
misrepresentation is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have insured the customer but for the 
misrepresentation, it can treat the policy as void. So Im satisfied Policy Expert was entitled 
to avoid Mr Ms policy. As this means that  in effect  Mr Ms policy never existed, Policy 
Expert doesnt have to deal with his claim.
One final point. Given the misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless, 
it wasnt appropriate for Policy Expert to retain Mr Ms premiums. It should refund these 
premiums to Mr and Mrs M, plus interest. Policy Expert has agreed to do this.
Like our investigator, Ive enormous sympathy for Mr and Mrs M and Im so sorry theyve had 
to go through this. I understand what a terrible event this was and how badly its affected 
their lives. However, my job is to decide whether Policy Expert acted fairly and reasonably. 
For the reasons above, I think Mr and Mrs M made a careless misrepresentation when they 
took out the policy. Im satisfied that Policy Expert wouldnt have insured them if it had 
known about their farming activities. Because of this, I agree that Policy Expert can avoid Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy and decline their claim. I know that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed 
with my decision, but I think Policy Experts actions were reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I require Qmetric Group Limited 
(trading as Policy Expert) to refund Mr and Mrs Ms premiums, plus interest at 8% simple per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman