DRN-4417409
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the amount QIC Europe Limited offered to settle her claim for water 
damage.
What happened
Ms B had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by QIC. On finding water damage in 
her kitchen, identified as being a leak from the under-floor mains, she claimed under the 
policy. QIC appointed a loss adjuster, who said the sub-floor was incorrectly constructed and 
the kitchen units were damaged gradually through normal wear and tear and/or poor 
extraction from the room. 
QIC said its contractors wouldnt carry out work over the existing sub-floor, so QIC offered a 
cash settlement for the replacement flooring. It declined the claim for repair or replacement 
of the kitchen units.
Ms B complained to QIC. She said only the base units were damaged, suggesting it was 
directly linked to the water damage. So she thought QIC should cover the cost of replacing 
the damaged units. Ms B also said shed bought the property in good faith, so she wouldnt 
have known anything about the sub-floor construction. She said she expected QIC to cover 
the full floor repair and replacement in line with her policy.
In response to requests from QIC, Ms B provided estimates of the repairs needed to restore 
her kitchen to its pre-damaged condition. She had two estimates, one including the 
replacement kitchen furniture and one excluding it. The estimates were £38,000 and 
£28,000 respectively.
QIC looked into Ms Bs complaint and sent its final response letter. QIC remained of the 
opinion that it was only liable for the cost of the replacement flooring. It offered around 
£12,000 as a cash settlement, which included the cost of labour to remove and refit the 
existing kitchen units.
Ms B didnt think QICs offer was fair, so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think QIC had done enough to settle Ms Bs claim fairly. She 
recommended that QIC pay £28,000 to cover the full flooring costs, but she agreed that the 
kitchen units were damaged gradually and excluded from cover.
Ms B accepted the proposal, but she placed conditions on her acceptance.
QIC didnt agree because it was still of the view that it had no liability for the sub-floor under 
the terms of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold in 
part Ms Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Theres no dispute that a leak from the water mains caused damage to Ms Bs kitchen 
flooring. And QIC accepted some liability for the repairs under the policy terms and 
conditions. So, for me to decide whether QIC handled Ms Bs claim fairly and reasonably, 
Ive thought about what shouldve happened when she made her claim and compared that 
with what actually happened.
Cash settlement - what shouldve happened and what actually happened
When QICs loss adjuster inspected the damage, Id have expected to see a full documented 
report, including photos, to justify the decision to accept or decline the claim. If any part of 
the claim was declined, Id expect QIC to explain that to Ms B. If any part of the claim was 
accepted, QIC shouldve arranged repair, replacement or a cash settlement in line with the 
policy terms. 
The evidence shows that the two loss adjusters reports were brief, and included 
incorrect or inconsistent information. The outcome appears to be an overall decline, 
but QIC told Ms B that it only declined the sub-floor and kitchen units. So the claim 
started out with some confusion.
The policy terms and conditions state that if QIC offers to cash settle rather than complete 
the reinstatement work, it must be equivalent to the reasonable cost to Ms B to arrange the 
work herself.
QIC said its contractors wouldnt complete the floor repairs, but it offered a cash 
settlement equivalent to what it wouldve cost if it had arranged to replace the 
flooring, excluding any work on the sub-floor. Providing the offer is equivalent to the 
cost to Ms B to complete the work QIC would otherwise have done, I think thats fair 
and in line with the policy.
The damaged flooring ran from wall to wall  that is, underneath the units - so QIC wouldve 
been responsible for removing and refitting the kitchen units to access the whole floor.
QICs cash settlement offer included removal of and refitting the kitchen, so it offered 
what Id expect in the circumstances and in line with the policy.
Providing the sub-floor was of the required building standards in force at the time of 
construction, Id expect QIC to repair the sub-floor to current standards. 
QIC said the sub-floor wasnt constructed in line with best practice. Its loss adjuster 
said the floor didnt have:
oa damp proof membrane;
oself-levelling compound; 
oinsulation, or 
oupper moisture resistant deck.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I have no reason to doubt the 
surveyors assessment that the sub-floor was not constructed to best practice. 
Therefore, I can understand why QIC declined to pay for the sub-floor repairs, as to 
do more than that wouldve been placing Ms B in a better position than before the 
leak. 
As the sub-floor was not in line with building regulations at the time of construction, Id have 
expected QIC to offer either a cash settlement for its liability to replace the wood flooring only, or to complete the full works subject to Ms B covering the cost of bringing the sub-floor 
in line with best practice. 
QIC said it only offered a cash settlement because thats what Ms B asked for. It 
didnt offer to complete the work subject to her paying for the sub-floor. However, the 
loss adjusters report shows that Ms B, may consider a cash settlement as her 
partner knows a local builder. I dont think that implies she preferred to use her own 
builder. Therefore, I think QIC shouldve given her the option to arrange or pay to 
bring the sub-floor up to standard so it could replace the wood flooring covered under 
the policy. I think QIC fell short of reasonable expectations here. 
In summary, then, I dont think QICs cash settlement offer alone was sufficient in the 
circumstances. I think it shouldve made alternative offers which allowed Ms B to bring her 
sub-floor up to standard so she could benefit from QIC completing the remainder of the 
work, including removing and refitting her kitchen.
Ms B has already had the work done, so any settlement for the new wood floor, excluding 
any work to bring the sub-floor up to standard, should be equivalent to the cost of that work. 
Id only expect QIC to pay for the necessary cost and for a similar standard of floor. Ms B 
would need to provide QIC with evidence of the itemised invoice and payment. 
I also think QIC should pay the equivalent of its expected costs to remove and refit the 
kitchen as it previously included in its offer. As Ms B had a new kitchen, I wouldnt expect 
QIC to pay the full labour charges for installation.
Kitchen units
Ms B said the kitchen units were damaged by the escape of water. She said thats evident 
because the damage only became visible after the leak. Its surveyor said the damage was 
consistent with wear and tear, so QIC declined cover under the policy exclusion of gradually 
occurring damage.
Ive looked at the photos provided which show delamination of the unit doors in places. I 
have no reason to doubt that the damage became visible after the escape of water, or that it 
was confined to the base units. However, I note that the damage was on lower edges and 
the top of kitchen unit doors - areas that would likely suffer wear and tear from use. 
So, based on the evidence, I find QICs explanation more persuasive. Its more likely than 
not that the kitchen units were damaged over time, and the escape of water was not the 
main cause of delamination. Therefore, I think QIC fairly declined this element of the claim in 
line with the policy exclusion it relied upon. I see no reason to ask QIC to cover the cost to 
repair or replace the kitchen units.
Compensation
Ms B asked for compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this matter 
caused. Its worth noting here that Ms B showed how she tried to minimise the claim costs  
for example, seeking discounts on storage and sourcing alternative accommodation herself, 
which was significantly smaller than her own property and required her to vacate briefly due 
to an existing booking. While I wouldnt expect any policyholder to seek excessive costs, this 
evidence persuades me that Ms Bs conduct reflects that of someone who just wanted the 
claim handled properly and quickly. 
Having considered the evidence, I dont think QIC handled the claim as well as it shouldve 
done, causing Ms B otherwise avoidable distress and inconvenience. In light of this, including its failure to advise Ms B of her options for the sub-floor work, I think its reasonable 
for QIC to pay £250 compensation. 
Interest on payment
Ms B asked for interest on the payment she made to her builder.
As Ive said, I dont think QIC was responsible for bringing the sub-floor up to standard, and 
QIC explained that to Ms B. While I think it couldve explained the options to her more 
comprehensively, it doesnt make any difference to the amount Ms B wouldve needed to 
pay for her floor work and replacement kitchen. Therefore, I see no reason to ask QIC to pay 
interest on the payments she made to her builder.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC didnt provide any further comment or evidence.
Ms B provided some clarification of work done and commented on several matters. 
Ill address the key points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence in light of Ms Bs further comments, Ive decided to partly 
uphold her complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
Ms B explained that the sub floor was left untouched when the builders completed repairs, 
and she described the work done. Ms B also confirmed that the costs for the lower quote 
increased to £42,000, and neither of the quotes included work to the sub floor. The 
clarification is helpful, but it doesnt affect what QIC needs to do to put matters right. 
In the background to my provisional decision, I said QIC declined cover for the kitchen units 
because they were damaged gradually through normal wear and tear and/or poor extraction 
from the room. Ms B said poor extraction wasn't mentioned before. To clarify, I took the 
information from the surveyors report which indicated that the possible causes had been 
discussed with Ms B. However, whether or not extraction was mentioned, Im satisfied that 
QIC reasonably relied on the policy exclusion for wear and tear.
Ms B said QIC suggested that she seek a cash settlement. I have no reason to doubt that, 
and Ive already accepted that QIC didnt handle the settlement of the claim as well as it 
shouldve done. 
Ive noted Ms Bs clarification that the quotes included work other than the flooring, such as 
redecoration, plumbing and electrical work. My focus was on the dispute regarding the sub 
floor and kitchen  that is, the areas of work not covered under the policy. Nevertheless, its 
reasonable to make that clear now. In my provisional decision I said QIC hadnt handled the 
claim well because it didnt offer Ms B the option of arranging the sub floor work so that she 
could benefit from QIC completing the remaining work. Im satisfied that my decision 
included the expectation that QIC was responsible for all other work, so I dont think its 
necessary to issue a further decision for comment. That said, if Ms B thinks additional necessary work was done which she thinks QIC wouldve been responsible for, shed need 
to provide QIC with evidence so that it can consider the additional items under the policy.
Ms B said her new kitchen arrived assembled, so installation costs were like-for-like. She 
also said the work was done in one month, so labour costs alone exceeded QICs offer. 
Again, if Ms B has evidence that her reasonable costs of all work covered under the policy 
exceeded that offered by QIC, shed need to provide it with evidence. 
The final point Ms B made was about the lost interest on her payment to the builder. She 
said if QIC had handled the claim better, shed have been reimbursed the repair costs 
sooner. Ive accepted that QIC didnt handle the claim as well as it shouldve done. But as it 
couldnt complete work until the sub floor was of an appropriate standard, I dont think its 
responsible for any lost interest. However, Ive acknowledged the service shortfalls, which is 
why Ive decided £250 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
In summary, QIC declined two parts of Ms Bs claim  the sub floor repairs and the damaged 
kitchen doors  and the evidence persuades me that it was fair to rely on the policy 
exclusions it quoted. So Im not asking QIC to pay anything for the sub floor repairs, or for 
any costs incurred for the new kitchen installation which wouldnt have been incurred if the 
existing kitchen had been reinstalled. My decision is based on the understanding that QIC 
will pay all other agreed costs. And if Ms B believes she has additional costs to include in her 
claim, shed need to provide QIC with evidence for its consideration under the policy terms 
and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Ms Bs 
complaint and QIC Europe Limited must:
Cash settle the claim for the reasonable costs Ms B incurred replacing her wood 
floor. The settlement should include the kitchen removal and refit costs QIC wouldve 
incurred without applying any discount it mightve achieved using its own contractors.
Pay Ms B £250 compensation by way of apology for the service shortfalls and the 
failure to advise her of her options regarding the sub-floor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman