DRN-3070993
The complaint
Miss C has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) broke her boiler 
during an annual service carried out under her home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Miss C arranged for her boiler to be serviced by British Gas. During the engineers visit, he 
reported that the boiler casing was broken and arranged for a breakdown engineer to visit. 
The second engineer visited the same day, capped off the boiler and said it needed to be 
replaced.
Miss C complained to British Gas because she said its engineer broke the boiler. She 
wanted it to pay for a new boiler. When British Gas replied, it said it wasnt liable to pay for a 
new boiler because of the age, efficiency and wear and tear on the boiler. It said the part 
required to fix the boiler was obsolete, so it had to be capped off and replaced with a new 
boiler.
When Miss C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the 
evidence showed a British Gas engineer had broken the boiler and there was nothing to 
suggest it hadnt been working before the visit. He said British Gas should pay the 
replacement cost of the boiler and £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Two engineers visited Miss Cs home on the day the boiler broke. The first engineer carried 
out an annual service. The second engineer visited at the request of the first engineer 
because the boiler fixing was broken. British Gass records for the second engineers visit 
said:
Previous Asv [annual service] contractor broke case fixing.obso [obsolete] part.i have 
tt,capped&removed fuse.complaint.
Based on this, I think the first British Gas engineer broke the boiler fixing, as the second 
engineer seems to have confirmed this was what happened. Although British Gas has 
argued that the part broke as the result of wear and tear, I havent seen anything that shows 
that.
So, Ive thought about what should happen. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the boiler 
wasnt working before the first engineers visit or that it wouldnt have continued to work if 
that part hadnt been broken. However, Im also aware that the boiler was about 20 years 
old. British Gass records said the part that broke was obsolete, which meant it wasnt 
possible to source a replacement part, and that it was for this reason that the boiler was 
capped off. 
British Gas had told Miss C on several occasions, over a number of years, that the boiler 
manufacturer no longer made some of the parts for that particular boiler and other parts 
might be difficult to source, which it said meant it might not be able to fix the boiler should it 
breakdown. Miss C also explained that a British Gas engineer had previously told her that 
she should think about replacing the boiler but that it was still working well and she would 
probably get another couple of years use out of it. So, Ive also taken into account that the 
boiler was relatively old, that British Gas had warned Miss C about some parts being 
obsolete and that it was likely to need to be replaced in the reasonably near future.
As a result, Im currently of the view that British Gas should pay 50% of the cost of replacing 
the boiler, the full cost of which I understand to be in the region of £3,000. This is because 
although British Gass engineer broke the boiler, Im also mindful that British Gas had 
already told Miss C that there were potential issues with the boiler due to its age. This seems 
to have contributed to the need to replace the whole boiler rather than just a replacing the 
broken part. I think requiring British Gas to pay the full cost of a new boiler would put Miss C 
in a considerably better position than she was in before the engineers visit, but I do think it 
should contribute to the cost of replacing the boiler.
I also intend to require British Gas to pay interest on the 50% contribution from the date on 
which Miss C paid the invoice for the new boiler, as she will have lost use of the money from 
that date. Miss C will need to provide British Gas with the invoice for the work and evidence 
of payment.
Ive also thought about compensation and currently intend to require British Gas to pay Miss 
C £200 compensation because of the distress and inconvenience caused to her by the 
unexpected need to buy a new boiler because the engineer broke the fixing.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 September 2021. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I remain of the view that it is the most appropriate way to resolve this 
complaint based on the circumstances of this case.
  
Putting things right
British Gas must pay Miss C 50% of the cost of replacing the boiler and pay interest on that 
amount. British Gas must also pay Miss C £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss C 50% of the cost of replacing the boiler.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount, subject to Miss C providing suitable evidence of 
the payment and the date on which it was made.
Pay £200 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman