DRN-3644024
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about the time taken to complete the 
transfer of his ISA funds to another provider.
What happened
Mr T held a cash ISA with Barclays. On 28 September 2020 Mr T requested that his ISA 
funds be transferred to a stocks and shares ISA with another provider (company A). 
The transfer was declined several times and then delayed before it was finally completed on 
10 March 2021. The amount transferred was approximately £95,000.
Mr T complained to Barclays about how long the transfer had taken. He said the delay had 
caused him unnecessary stress and inconvenience and meant that he was unable to invest 
a significant amount of his savings sooner. He asked Barclays to pay compensation of 2% 
interest on the amount transferred for the period of delay, which he put at 133 days.
Barclays upheld Mr Ts complaint, acknowledging they had not processed his transfer 
request when they should have. They said that Mr Ts balance being over £50,000 had 
caused the problem, but they accepted that Mr T had replied to their correspondence on 
numerous occasions to give his permission for the transfer. Barclays paid Mr T £100 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. Mr T was unhappy with that and brought 
his complaint to the Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. In summary, his findings were:
Government guidelines say that ISA transfers of this kind should take no longer than 30 
calendar days.
Mr Ts transfer request was sent to Barclays by post on 2 October 2020. The request 
was declined twice in October 2020 because of a mismatch between the address 
provided and the address Barclays had for Mr T.
Mr T amended his address with Barclays and the transfer request was resubmitted to 
Barclays by post on 13 November 2020. That request wasnt received by Barclays. 
Although that might have added to the delay, our investigator didnt think Barclays could 
reasonably be held accountable for something they had no control over.
Having been chased for an update by Mr T, company A posted the transfer request 
again on 11 December 2020. Barclays requested an updated transfer form the following 
week and that was submitted to them on 29 December 2020.   
There were further delays after that, relating to Mr Ts address and the fact that the 
amount transferred exceeded £50,000. But our investigator thought that Barclays had all 
the information they needed to complete the transfer by 6 January 2021 and were largely 
responsible for the delays after that date.
 
When the transfer was eventually initiated in March 2021 it took six days to complete. 
As Barclays had everything they needed from 6 January 2021, then its reasonable to 
assume the transfer would have been completed on 12 January 2021 if nothing further 
had gone wrong.
Mr T invested his funds from 10 March 2021 and would have done so sooner if the 
transfer had not been delayed.
Barclays should calculate (using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index) the investment returns Mr T lost out on between 12 January and 10 March 2021 
and compensate him for that sum. They should also pay him an additional £100 for 
distress and inconvenience.    
Barclays accepted our investigators findings. Mr T disagreed and said, in summary, that:
12 January 2021 was not a reasonable date to assume completion of the transfer. 
It attributes the delay up to that point to him when Barclays had a range of better options 
to address that delay. If they had chosen to contact him or company A then the delay 
would have been much shorter. 
Barclays have accepted they were at fault and so should be held responsible for some of 
the delay before 12 January 2021. 
The proposed benchmark does not reflect his actual investment behaviour. And it is 
unreasonable to expect him to agree to the proposed compensation without being able 
to calculate how much it would mean. He suggests that it would be fairer for 
compensation to be based on an interest award.      
As Mr T disagrees with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr T that I have looked carefully at all the information he has provided. 
Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
In their response to Mr T, Barclays accepted that they caused unnecessary delay in the 
transfer of his funds. They said the transfer request failed their validation checks because it 
was for over £50,000 even though Mr T had already given his permission for the transfer to 
go ahead. And Barclays have accepted our investigators finding that they should 
compensate Mr T for the delay between 12 January and 10 March 2021. The key issue I 
need to consider in this decision therefore is whether Barclays were responsible for at least 
some of the earlier delay and, if they were, what they should do to put things right.  
It seems the earlier delays were caused by two problems. The first was a mismatch between 
the address Mr T gave on the transfer form and the address Barclays held on file for him. 
Barclays explained that for a transfer to go ahead all the information about the customer 
must match. I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to reject the transfer request on that basis. And from what Ive seen, I think Barclays explained clearly to Mr T and company 
A why they had rejected the request and what they needed to do. 
Mr T has said Barclays held multiple contact details for him and should have been able to 
resolve the address mismatch more quickly. I accept that Barclays could have tried 
alternative ways to contact Mr T and speed things up. But its not my role to tell businesses 
how they should contact their customers. Im satisfied that Barclays followed their agreed 
process and I dont think it would be fair to hold them responsible for the initial delay that 
arose because of the address mismatch.
The second cause of the earlier delays related to the transfer request that was resubmitted 
to Barclays by post on 13 November 2020. Barclays have said they didnt receive that 
request. I cant be sure what happened to that correspondence, but Ive not seen any 
evidence that it was received by Barclays. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for the delay that resulted.
   
Overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to 
the two problems I have discussed above. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to hold them responsible for the delays that resulted from those issues.
From the evidence Ive seen I agree with our investigators findings  which Barclays have 
accepted  that Barclays had all the information they needed to process the transfer on 
6 January 2021. Based on the time taken to complete the transfer once it was initiated in 
March, I think it is reasonable to say it would have been completed by 12 January 2021 if 
Barclays had not caused further delays. I think Barclays should therefore compensate Mr T 
for the delay between 12 January and 10 March 2021.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mr T as close to the 
position he would probably now be in if Barclays had not caused unnecessary delays with 
his transfer. 
Following the completion of the transfer on 10 March 2021, Mr T invested the large majority 
of his funds within a few days. I think it is reasonable to say that he would most likely have 
invested his funds promptly if the transfer had been completed by 12 January 2021. So, I 
think Barclays should compensate him for any returns Mr T missed out on because his funds 
were not invested between 12 January and 10 March 2021.
I have considered what Mr T has said about how he should be compensated. I accept it is 
not possible to say precisely how he would have invested his funds. But I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given how Mr T invested his funds in 
March 2021 and the circumstances of this case. 
To compensate Mr T fairly, Barclays must:
Establish what the cash value of Mr Ts ISA would have been on 12 January 2021.
Using that cash value, calculate the return Mr Ts funds would have achieved against 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index benchmark between 
12 January 2021 and 10 March 2021 and pay him that amount. If, according to that 
calculation, no returns would have been achieved over that period then no 
compensation is payable. 
Pay a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience they have caused him. Mr T had to repeatedly chase up his transfer request and I dont think the £100 already 
paid by Barclays is sufficient compensation for the impact this had on him.
I have chosen this method of compensation because the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly 
UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. I think it is fair in this case given how Mr T 
invested his funds when they were transferred in March 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Barclays should pay the amount calculated as set out above. They should provide details of 
their calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman