DRN-3026059
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product when he and his partner were in 
Florida. Because they paid in part using Mr Hs credit card, issued by National Westminster 
Bank Plc, they say that he has a claim against the bank in the same way as he has a claim 
against the seller.
What happened
In September 2010 Mr H and his partner were on holiday in Florida. They say that they were 
invited to a presentation by Marriott Vacation Club. At the end of the presentation they 
agreed to buy an interest in the Marriott Vacation Club Destinations Program, at a cost of 
US$14,475.
Most of the purchase was funded by a loan provided by the seller of the membership, 
Marriott Ownership Resorts Inc (Marriott), a company registered in Delaware. But Mr H 
also paid US$1,448 (equivalent at the time to £962.27) using his NatWest credit card. 
In August 2018 Mr H contacted NatWest to say that the club membership had been mis-sold 
and that, because NatWest had provided some of the credit used to buy it, he had a claim 
against it. In his claim to the bank and the referral of his complaint to this service, Mr H has 
said:
The sales process was pressured, and he and his partner did not understand what they 
were agreeing to.
He was told the membership would increase in value and could be sold. That was 
untrue.
He was told that club membership would provide flexibility and a wide choice of holiday 
destinations, but in fact the options available were very limited. 
Marriott had been in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations). 
The bank had not properly assessed the suitability of the credit provided as required by 
CONC, the part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook that deals with 
consumer credit. 
The credit card agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
The bank did not accept that it had any liability to Mr H. It did not believe that he had a claim 
against Marriott. In any event, it thought that any claim would now be out of time and so 
would not succeed. 
Mr H referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She was broadly in agreement with the bank and so did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr H did not accept the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I noted that the complaint had been brought by 
both Mr H and his partner, but that the credit card account was in his name only  so only he 
was eligible to refer the complaint to this service. I continued:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am satisfied there 
were such arrangements here.
Mr Ps primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against H. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation or on breach of contract cannot generally be brought after six years from 
the date on which the cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr 
H into buying the timeshare were made on or before 28 September 2010. Mr H did not 
however raise any complaint until around August 2018, nearly eight years later. I think it very 
likely therefore that an English court would conclude that any claim against Marriott for 
misrepresentation or for breach would be outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
I should mention however that the contract with Marriott was expressly subject to the laws of 
Florida and provided that any dispute should be referred to the courts of Florida. Neither Mr 
H nor the bank has not provided any evidence that Florida law recognises (or does not 
recognise) claims for misrepresentation or of the relevant time limits that might apply. 
I have therefore approached this part of the complaint on the assumption that the legal 
position in Florida is not materially different from that under English law. Given the time that 
had passed from the sale until any concerns were raised, I think that the banks response to 
the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In considering whether there is an unfair relationship, a 
court can consider any linked agreement.
Mr H says that the actions of Marriott meant that the credit agreement between him and the 
bank created an unfair relationship. As well as the points Ive discussed above, he says that 
Marriott acted in breach of the Timeshare Regulations 2010 and that the bank did not 
properly assess the credit in line with CONC. 
The Timeshare Regulations came into force on 23 February 2011, some months after the 
sale in this case. And they do not apply to contracts governed by the laws of Florida. I do not 
therefore need to discuss them further.  CONC came into force when the Financial Conduct Authority took over the regulation of 
consumer credit on 1 April 2014. Before that, I would have expected lenders to follow 
guidelines issued by, for example, the Lending Standards Board, the Office of Fair Trading 
and the Finance and Leasing Association in deciding whether a credit facility was affordable 
and appropriate.      
Mr H used his credit card to pay a relatively small portion of the purchase price of the 
membership. That is, he used an existing credit facility. Any assessment of it would have 
taken place when Mr H applied for the credit card and when his credit limit was changed (if 
indeed it was). Marriott played no part in introducing it or recommending the facility. There 
was no direct link between the sale and the provision of the credit card. The credit limit had 
been set at an earlier date and was not affected by the contract with Marriott.
Only a court can decide if an agreement creates an unfair relationship under section 140A, 
and only a court can make an order under section 140B. I must however take those 
provisions into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable. I have done that but believe 
it is unlikely that a court would be minded to uphold a claim under section 140A in this case.   
I indicated that I was unlikely to uphold the complaint and invited further submissions by the 
end of February 2023. I have not received any further arguments or evidence from either 
party.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, as I have received nothing further in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to reach any different conclusion about the resolution of Mr Hs complaint.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require National Westminster Bank Plc 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman