DRN-2912314
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the delayed transfer of her ISA holdings from Invesco Fund 
Managers Limited  referred to as Invesco or the transferor  to a third-party business 
referred to as the transferee. 
Mrs P says that the compensation offered by Invesco for the delay isnt enough. 
She is being assisted by her son, Mr P.
What happened
In my provisional decision of June 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part of 
this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im still minded to uphold
this complaint. However, in light of the responses from the parties, Im persuaded to depart
from my original decision regarding redress. Provisionally I think that Invesco is responsible
for the whole loss rather than only two thirds of it.
By provisionally suggesting that Invesco was responsible for two thirds of the loss, I wasnt
implying that the transferee or Mrs P were responsible for the balance. In this instance, Im
not considering the actions of the transferee or that of Mrs P, Im only considering the
actions of Invesco.
Whilst delays can occur  where one or both parties are at fault  sometimes delays can
also occur that isnt anyones fault, and either scenario can have an impact on redress,
depending on the individual facts of the case.
So, in this case whilst I was satisfied that it was Invescos fault  for erroneously rejecting
Mrs Ps request  without additional information (from the transferee) I was unable to safely
say that it was also responsible for the entire loss.
I note Invesco wrote to the transferee (and Mrs P) on Wednesday 19 February 2020, within
two days of receiving and (erroneously) rejecting the application to transfer, and the
transferee received a copy of the letter on 24 February 2020. I note that on 25 February
2020, Mr P confirmed that the correct NINO had been provided at the outset.
I note on 26 February 2020, the transferee spoke to Invesco and was told that it had should
call back on 28 February for an update. When the transferee called back as instructed, it
was told that the information had been updated (on 27 February 2020) but the transferee
would now need to provide a new request.
I understand that the transferee, of its own volition, sent a certified copy of the request prior
to 28 February 2020  because the original paperwork wasnt returned, and it didnt have a
copy of the original request. However, the transferee was told on 28 February 2020 that
Invesco couldnt accept a certified copy of the request. Its unclear if this copy was received
and then rejected, although it seems likely that it was. In any case, in the overall scheme of
events, it makes no difference.
I note the transferee said:
In terms of having evidence of requests sent, I can see that on one of the initial calls,
Invesco stated they wont accept a certified copy of the request we sent to them and it had to
be an original request but as this was sent to Invesco and had not been returned, we tried to
obtain one from the member by sending them paperwork to sign and return.
I note Invesco says that on 2 March 2020 it received a call from the transferee enquiring
about the progress of the transfer. But this wasnt the first time that the transferee enquired
about the transfer, or taken any action with regards to it, as Id initially thought.
I note on 4 March 2020 Mr P attended a branch of the transferee to sign the relevant
documents. On 5 March 2020 a copy of the original documents were sent, as well as offered
to be sent by scan. On the same date, I note the transferee recorded the following:
Mr P (name anonymised) visited the branch yesterday and has signed an Isa transfer in
form SF215 & SF216 to complete the transfer to us. I will send this today in the blue bag to
the ISA Transfer in team but would you also like me to scan the document over to you to
enable you to prioritise this matter for Mr P, so the transfer in doesnt incur any further
delays.
Its unclear if Invesco responded to the transferee, either way, on 11 March 2020, the
transferee again called Invesco for an update, but even by 13 March 2020, Invesco still
hadnt received a copy. In the circumstances, I think its likely that there was an issue at
Invescos end for which it is responsible. In other words, I think its unlikely that none of the
documents were successfully received, unless there was an issue with Invescos
post/document handling.
On 25 March 2020, the transferee called again but had no answer, so it emailed Invesco for
an update. I note it did the same again on 1 April 2020, and 9 April 2020 but with no answer.
Whilst I appreciate that a transferor cant act without a valid request, in the circumstances I
think Invesco ought reasonably to have made an exception  to accept a certified copy of the
request  at the outset, to move matters along.
It wasnt until 20 April 2020, that Invesco eventually confirmed it would accept a certified
copy of the application form, having at the outset said that it wouldnt. I note the transferee
recorded the following:
Spoke with Invesco and they have confirmed they WILL accept a certified copy in these
circumstances. I have sent certified copy today.
I note Invesco didnt argue that it wasnt responsible for the whole loss. It simply said that
redress should be calculated on the basis of its proposed methodology, and that it wasnt
responsible for any loss after 27 February 2020  which Ive already said isnt reasonable in
the circumstances. So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, for the reasons set out
above, Im satisfied that Invesco is responsible for the whole loss.
I appreciate the points Mr P makes about calculating redress from 18 February 2020, but for
the reasons Ive set in my provisional decision, I think Invesco should do so from 21
February 2020.
Invesco responded and said:We have received the ombudsman's provisional decision and I can confirm that we dont 
have any further points to make.
Mr P also responded and said:
Thank you for sending through the revised provisional decision and I am pleased to see that 
the decision has been amended to reflect the true responsibility for the errors created by 
Invescos poor administration of my mothers account.
I confirm our acceptance of this decision and hope that Invesco will abide by the decision 
made by the Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of no new submissions, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. I think that 
Invesco is responsible for the whole loss rather than only two thirds of it.
In other words, no new material points have been made, so Im still satisfied that the key 
points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
I think Invesco Fund Managers Limited should compare the value of the ISA on
21 February 2020 with the value Mrs P received in April 2020 and pay the difference, if there
is a loss, less any compensation already paid.
Putting things right
Invesco Fund Managers Limited should compare the value of the ISA on
21 February 2020 with the value Mrs P received in April 2020 and pay the difference, if there
is a loss, less any compensation already paid.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited should also pay Mrs P £550 compensation for the trouble
and upset caused, unless it had already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited should pay Mrs P redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman