DRN-2792749
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) has applied a default to his credit file. 
He said he didnt receive any correspondence from Lloyds and was making payments, so he 
feels the default has been applied unfairly.
What happened
Mr H had an overdraft on his current account with Lloyds. He spoke to Lloyds in September 
2019 to set up a payment plan, which was confirmed by letter shortly afterwards.
Mr H didnt pay the full amount required for the first payment under the plan, though he was 
making regular payments to the account. Lloyds wrote to Mr H in October 2019 asking for 
payment, and in January 2020 making a formal demand for payment of the overdraft 
balance, warning that the account could be closed, and a default recorded with credit 
reference agencies. It wrote again in similar terms in March 2020. Lloyds also texted Mr H 
numerous times during this period, asking him to get in touch. As it didnt hear from Mr H, 
Lloyds closed the account, and recorded a default in April 2020.
Mr H says he didnt receive any letters and thought the £20 per week he was paying was in 
line with his payment plan. He says he hadnt heard from Lloyds since his payment plan was 
initially set up, and that it was unfair of Lloyds to record the default.
Lloyds said it had sent letters and texts, and Mr H had not responded so it had acted 
correctly in recording the default. Mr H was not happy with this and brought the case to this 
service. Our investigator reviewed the account history and thought that Mr H would have 
been aware of the terms of the payment plan and the need to contact Lloyds.
As such, he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr H was not happy with this. He asked for an Ombudsman to review his case, so it came to 
me to decide. As my reasoning differed from the adjudicators in places, I issued a 
provisional decision, which is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H spoke to Lloyds in late September 2019 about his current account with it. Having 
listened to the call recording, I can see that Mr H agreed a repayment plan for £60 a month 
for the next three months. Mr H agreed to make the first payment by a specified date in 
September 2019 and the advisor explained he would need to pay £60 into his account by 
that date. The advisor emphasised that the plan was temporary, and that Mr H needed to get 
back in touch in November 2019 when the plan would end. Mr H had said that his partners 
income would resume in November 2019, but Lloyds couldnt take account of this ahead of 
that time. In the light of this, I am satisfied that Mr H was aware that he needed to contact 
Lloyds in November 2019.
Mr H had been making weekly standing order payments of £20 dating back to a previous 
payment plan and asked if he could just continue with this. The advisor said it didnt matter 
how he made the payments but said clearly that he would need to make sure £60 had been 
paid into the account by the agreed start date. Lloyds confirmed this by letter. The letter also 
showed Mr Hs overdraft limit would reduce each month by £60 dropping to £1,790 on the 
first payment date in September. Having reviewed Mr Hs bank statements, I can see that his 
balance on the date the plan was agreed was £1,865.14, but the way that the monthly limit 
reduction was set up was consistent with a starting balance of £1,850. This meant that 
paying the required monthly payment would leave Mr H in an over limit position, which I dont 
think can have been how it was meant to work.
Mr H didnt make any payments in addition to his £20 weekly standing order, and this meant 
he only paid £40 instead of £60 between the phone call setting up the plan and the first 
payment date. This meant he had broken the plan in the first month, and Lloyds sent him a 
letter about this in early October saying he had arrears of £35.14 (not £20 which was the 
amount of the underpayment). While potentially confusing, I havent seen any evidence that 
this affected how Mr H dealt with his account, as he continued to pay £20 a week by 
standing order, as he had been doing since before the payment arrangement was set up.
The standing order payments meant he had made good the initial underpayment by the 
second payment date under the plan, had made the required payments over the term of the 
plan, and was under the temporary limit by the end of the plan.
The plan ended in November 2019, and in the light of what Ive said about performance of 
the plan, this is the most important period in this case. Mr H needed to contact Lloyds at this 
time as the advisor had emphasised in September 2019, but he didnt do this. Mr H has said 
that he wouldve expected a message to tell him that the plan was ending, and I can see that 
this wouldve been helpful. But as he had been told the plan was temporary, and Lloyds had 
sent text messages asking him to call, I think Mr H shouldve been aware of the need to get 
in touch in any event.
The information provided by Lloyds shows that it sent multiple text messages to Mr H 
between early October 2019 and January 2020 asking him to call Lloyds about his account 
on a specified number. In late December Lloyds sent a more specific message, as follows:
Youre in an unarranged overdraft. Please pay in cleared funds by 2.30pm to keep making 
payments.
Mr H accepts he received text messages but says he didnt respond because hed been 
previously told that if his bank needed him, it would call him. He also says the texts didnt 
outline the severity of the situation, but I think the nature of the texts was a prompt to take 
action, which it wouldve been reasonable to follow. Mr Hs payment plan was temporary, 
ending in November 2019 and he had agreed to contact Lloyds at that time. In the light of all 
of this, I dont think Mr H acted reasonably in disregarding the text messages, particularly 
after the end of November when he knew his payment plan would end.
I can see that Lloyds sent letters to Mr H in late January 2020 and again in early March 2020 
requesting payment of his overdraft balance warning that if he didnt pay off his overdraft it 
would close his account and update his credit file with a default. The letters also encouraged 
Mr H to call Lloyds if he couldnt make the required payment. Mr H still didnt contact Lloyds 
and he has said he didnt receive the letters from Lloyds. Mr H says the letters shouldve 
been sent by recorded delivery, but I think the bank was entitled to follow its normal 
processes for correspondence. I cant see any suggestion that they were sent to the wrong address and if something went wrong with the postal service, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for that.
Lloyds then closed Mr Hs account and recorded a default in mid-April 2020 in line with its 
normal default processes. I understand that Mr H feels aggrieved at this because he had 
continued to make regular payments. However, Lloyds needed to speak to Mr H again to 
discuss his account further at the end of his payment arrangement and wouldve needed to 
base any further arrangement on the information provided at that time. Mr H had been made 
aware that that he needed to get in touch in November 2019 again to discuss his overdraft, 
and the texts from Lloyds were a reminder of this. As he had not contacted Lloyds despite 
this, I cant say that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in taking the action it did, so I am 
not going to ask it to do anything.
I know that Mr H will be disappointed with this, but I hope he can understand my reasons.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, and Mr H has not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, My view is unchanged, and 
I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman