DRN-4302620
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc mis-categorised his car after his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2009. 
In early 2022, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Covea. 
Unfortunately, the car was damaged in an accident. Mr S made a claim on the policy. 
Mr S complained to Covea that it had tried to treat the policy as void. He said it had caused 
him consequences including loss or earnings.
Covea said the car was a total loss. In late April 2022, Covea incorrectly recorded the 
salvage category of the vehicle on the MIB/MIAFTR database as category B (break), 
rather than N (non-structural). 
Mr B kept the car, not knowing it was recorded as category B.
He later brought his complaint (about the attempted voidance) to us, and we recommended 
that it should be upheld.
By late March 2023, Mr S had the car covered on a flexible policy with another insurer. On 
29 March 2023, that insurer told Mr S it couldnt continue to provide cover after 1 April 2023, 
and he should contact DVLA. Mr S contacted DVLA which sent him a message advising him 
to keep the car off the road.
Mr S contacted Covea, which apologised for recording his car as category B and took steps 
to correct the records the same day.
Mr S complained to Covea that its mistake had caused him inconvenience, distress and 
financial loss. That included the following:
Police had stopped him multiple times and asked about the ownership of the car. 
His breakdown insurer cancelled his cover and didnt give him a refund.
He couldnt get insurance for the car for about 17 days after 29 March 2023.
He couldnt use the car.
He had to pay £540.00 to store the car off the road.
He lost work as a driver.
He couldnt visit family.
He had to pay for taxis.
Covea made his health worse.
By a final response, Covea apologised for the error and offered £50.00 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with that, Mr S brought his complaint to us in mid-May 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that she could fairly say Covea was responsible for the issues Mr S faced after Covea 
updated the MIAFTR database on 29 March 2023. 
The investigator recommended that Covea should pay Mr S, in addition to the £50.00 it 
offered, a further £300.00 to make a total of £350.00 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him at an already difficult time.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Covea made a malicious error. That should never have happened.
From April 2022 to March 2023, he couldve had life- threatening encounters (with 
police).
From April 2023, the car was uninsured and liable to be seized. Recovery and 
storage were essential.
The system to update MIAFTR isnt fool proof.
DVLA took several days to update its system.
Covea caused him financial hardship, stress, anxiety, depression, sleepless nights 
and a worsening of his health.
He asks for justice.
Covea also disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
ANPR (automatic number plate recognition) cannot detect whether a vehicle has 
previously been written off.
It corrected the mistake as soon as it was made aware.
Mr S made the decision to not drive the vehicle.
Mr Ss conduct of his complaint makes it unfair for Covea to pay any more.
It honoured the previously offered £50.00 in compensation as a gesture. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. 
Where we uphold a policyholders complaint about an unfair act or omission by an insurer, 
we look at its impact on the policyholder. That may include financial loss. It may also include 
distress and inconvenience suffered by the policyholder. That may include any distress the 
policyholder suffered from experiencing the impact on other family members.Mr Ss case is a difficult one because of his previous complaint, and his ill-health.
I accept that Mr S had found a driving job and flexible insurance that suited him. I quite 
understand that he feels that Covea has deliberately messed up his life.
The investigator was rightly concerned to provide Mr S with details of organisations that (in 
addition to his doctor) can help him with his feelings of being overwhelmed. 
I accept that Covea should never have recorded the category B on MIAFTR.
Mr Ss allegation of a malicious error is a serious one that would require strong evidence. I 
consider that he has fallen well short of providing evidence of malice on the part of Covea or 
the individual who recorded the category B on its behalf.
I accept Mr Ss evidence that police stopped him in the car. However, I dont think the police 
wouldve known of the category B  otherwise they wouldve said so. So I dont find that 
Coveas error caused the police to stop Mr S.
Ive seen a letter from Mr Ss breakdown insurer, saying that it had cancelled his cover with 
effect from 1 March 2023. The letter doesnt give any reason or mention the category B. And 
the cancellation was in early March nearly a month before Mr S found out about the category 
B. So I havent seen enough evidence that the category B caused the cancellation of the 
breakdown cover.
Although the error was on MIAFTR for about eleven months, I dont consider that the error 
had any impact on Mr S until he found out about it on 29 March 2023.
I dont under-estimate that impact. Mr S was put to the trouble of contacting DVLA and 
Covea. The impact included Mr S being greatly troubled by thoughts (albeit incorrect in my 
view) that Covea had acted maliciously and mightve caused problems with the police in the 
previous eleven months. Mr S also had concerns about insuring the car and about not being 
able to use it. 
I consider that Mr Ss health issues magnified the impact on him. So - notwithstanding 
Coveas view - I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct Covea to 
pay Mr S, in addition to the £50.00 it offered, a further £300.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
However, Covea corrected its own records and updated MIAFTR on the same day 29 March 
2023. Also, Covea provided Mr S with a screenshot showing that it had updated MAIFTR. So 
Mr S knew what had happened and he had evidence to show to DVLA, insurers and others 
to show what had happened.
Our investigator contacted MIB/MIAFTR. The administrator of the MIAFTR database told us 
the following:
With regards to as to when other insurers would have been able to see the changes,
because of the way the record was updated, it would mean that the other insurers
would have been able to see this change straight away on MIAFTR. The record was
updated by an individual user (which is immediate) rather than a batch process
(which would happen overnight and therefore would take longer to appear).
From that, I find that Covea and MIAFTR acted on 29 March 2023 to correct the category 
from B to N in a way that was instantly available for subscribing insurers to see on the 
database. Im satisfied that those insurers included the insurer that Mr S was with.Also, Im satisfied that the updated information was sent to DVLA not later than the following 
day 30 March 2023.
As the corrected information was available to Mr Ss insurer and DVLA, I dont hold Covea 
responsible for his insurer declining to continue cover beyond 1 April 2023 or for Mr S taking 
his car off the road and into storage for 17 days.
It follows that I dont hold Covea responsible for Mr Ss loss of use of his car or the 
consequences of that including taxi costs, loss of earnings and impact on his health and 
family life. 
Putting things right
I conclude that it is fair and reasonable to direct Covea to pay Mr S, in addition to the £50.00 
it offered, a further £300.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr S, in addition to the £50.00 it offered, a further £300.00 
to make a total of £350.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman