DRN-3387344
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs V complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt fairly compensated them for mis-sold
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) with a loan because it wants to use the refund to
reduce the loan balance rather than pay the redress to them direct. Mr V and Mrs V have
also complained about the financial impact taking out PPI has had and how it has
contributed to their financial difficulty.
What happened
Briefly:
In 2019 Santander upheld Mr V and Mrs Vs loan PPI mis-selling complaint and it made an
offer of compensation for policies held with two loans. Santander said that because there 
was a balance still outstanding on the loan for the second PPI policy refund, it said the 
refund would be used to reduce the balance before any payment would be made to them.
Mr V and Mrs V brought their complaint to us raising the complaint points Ive detailed
above. Mr V and Mrs V also said that they tried to complain about their PPI policies in
2010 and have provided evidence of correspondence with Santander at this time. But they
said Santander didnt investigate their complaint and they heard nothing more. They said, 
had it done so and if they had received a refund of PPI in 2010, it may have prevented or
lessened their financial difficultly. Mr V and Mrs V want this taken into consideration.
I issued my provisional decision of February 2021 in which I said I was likely to not uphold 
the complaint.
Neither Santander, nor Mr V and Mrs V have responded to my provisional decision. While 
Im mindful that Mr V and Mrs V havent done so, Im satisfied they have received my 
provisional decision and they were made aware of the deadline for a response - it was 
emailed to them and they spoke to our adjudicator. So I think its reasonable to assume that 
if Mr V and Mrs V had wanted to respond they would have done so by now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I make no award in Mr V and 
Mrs Vs favour. My reasons are set out below.
Firstly and for the avoidance of doubt, I can see that Mr V and Mrs V have accepted
Santanders offer of compensation for the PPI policy taken out with their first loan. Because
this part of the complaint is resolved, I wont say anything more about this here.
Turning to the second PPI policy offer  Ive firstly reviewed Santanders compensation
calculation and Im satisfied it has been calculated fairly and in line with what I expect. So in
terms of the amount offered, it represents fair compensation.
I can see this was a single premium PPI policy where the upfront cost was added to the loan 
at the start, which attracted interest just like the principal loan amount Mr V and Mrs V 
borrowed. Santander has refunded the PPI premiums Mr V and Mrs V paid adding interest to 
these amounts to represent loss of opportunity on these amounts. And it has effectively 
removed the remaining PPI from the outstanding loan balance with the aim of putting Mr V 
and Mrs V in the position they would have been in had PPI not been sold.
So Im satisfied the amount of compensation offered is fair.
But Mr V and Mrs V think it is unfair for Santander to use their PPI compensation to reduce
the outstanding balance on the loan it was taken out on. But I disagree. Mr V and Mrs V owe
a not inconsiderable amount to Santander  a sum in excess of £20,000. So because this
amount is greater than the PPI compensation and because the loan is linked to the policy i.e.
it was the payments to this credit agreement the policy was protecting, Santander has the 
right to offset any PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding loan balance. And taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair in this case for Santander to do so.
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above I think Santanders offer of compensation
represents fair compensation in the circumstances.
Turning to the other points Mr V and Mrs V have raised  I can see that Mr V and Mrs V 
have described the difficult financial circumstances they have found themselves in and the 
impact it has had on their lives. Mr V and Mrs V say PPI has played a significant part of this. 
And while I sympathise with Mr V and Mrs V for the difficulties they have faced, I dont think 
PPI and the cost of it was the primary reason, or indeed a significant contributory factor, to 
the financial problems theyve suffered.
The cost of the PPI was a relatively low percentage of the overall lending Mr V and Mrs V
took on  so I cant fairly say that PPI was to blame. Because of this I dont make
any award of compensation for this matter.
Mr V and Mrs V have also complained that they first raised a complaint about PPI in 2010, 
which went unanswered by Santander. They say that if they had received a refund of PPI at 
this stage they could have avoided financial difficulty. Mr V and Mrs V have provided some 
email correspondence with Santander in 2010 in support of their complaint. And Ive looked 
at what theyve provided. But having done so, I dont think this shows that Santander failed 
to investigate a complaint about mis-sold loan PPI. I say this because Mr Vs initial email is 
sparce on detail  he doesnt explain what the complaint is about or importantly what PPI 
product he wants looking into. Only the title of his email says PPI. And when Santander 
asked for more information, Mr V gave his address and simply said he had a current 
account.
I dont think it is clear from this that Mr V and Mrs V wanted to make a mis-selling
complaint about PPI on their loans - so I cant fairly say that Santander did something wrong
and failed to investigate a complaint about loan PPI at this stage. Im mindful too that Ive not
seen anything to show that Mr V and Mrs V followed up matters before 2019, which led to
this complaint, which I find unusual.
So for these reasons I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably here to the 
extent that it warrants any kind of distress and inconvenience award.
Because of my finding above, it follows that Mr V and Mrs Vs complaint points about the
difference receiving PPI compensation in 2010 might have had on their financial position and
that it might have prevented their financial difficulties all together, falls away. But for the sake of completeness, even if I did think Santander was reasonably in a position
to consider Mr V and Mrs Vs PPI complaint in 2010 (which I do not as I said above), it
doesnt automatically follow that Santander would have arrived at the same decision it made
in 2019 and upheld their complaint. Again  assuming it did, Im not persuaded by what Mr V
and Mrs V say. For example Mr V and Mrs Vs loan was already in default by the time they
say they first raised their complaint in 2010. And because of the amounts involved, any PPI
compensation for the second loan would still have likely been used to reduce the balance. 
And the compensation for the first loan would not have made a material impact on Mr V and 
Mrs Vs financial position. In my view it would most likely have not prevented Santander from
pursuing Mr V and Mrs V for payment of the outstanding loan balance as they claim.
So taking all of the evidence and arguments into account  including listening carefully to
everything Mr V and Mrs V have said throughout  I think Santanders offer of compensation
is fair in the circumstances. And I think it is fair for Santander to use the compensation
offered to reduce Mr V and Mrs Vs outstanding loan balance. And for the reasons I have 
also set out above, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Santander failed to 
investigate Mr V and Mrs Vs loan PPI mis-sale complaint sooner. Because of this, I dont 
uphold this complaint or make any award. 
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I think Santander UK Plcs 
offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances and I also think it is fair for it to use the 
compensation payment to reduce Mr V and Mrs Vs outstanding loan balance rather than 
make payment to them direct.
I make no award in Mr V and Mrs Vs favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman