DRN-1327961
 
The complaint
Miss L complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited is seeking to recover from her money it 
has paid out under her motor insurance policy following a collision involving Miss Ls car and 
a third party car (TPC) 
What happened
In October 2018 Miss L was driving her car, which was insured by Tesco Underwriting, when 
it was hit from behind by the TPC. Miss L claimed on her policy with Tesco Underwriting. 
She said the accident was the fault of the TPC driver, who hadnt left sufficient braking 
distance between the TPC and Miss Ls car.
Following its initial investigations, Tesco Underwriting concluded that Miss Ls car was a total 
loss. Miss L decided to keep the car and have it repaired herself. Tesco Underwriting paid 
her £1,214, which was the market value of the car before the accident, less her policy 
excess and the salvage value of the car.
After it had done so, a recording from a camera mounted on the dash of the TPC became 
available. After viewing this camera footage Tesco Underwriting decided that the collision 
was caused by Miss L overtaking the TPC, pulling back in, and immediately slamming on her 
brakes. This left the TPC driver unable to avoid a collision. 
Tesco Underwriting settled the TPC drivers claim arising out of the collision. In March 2019 
it wrote to Miss L as follows:
I would refer you to policy conditions applicable and specifically Page 9 Section 3 Looking 
after your car. See attached for your reference.
Anyone covered by this policy must take all reasonable steps they can to protect the car, 
and anything in or attached to it, against loss or damage.
Once dash cam footage was received by the Third Party Insurers, it was evident the incident 
was caused by your deliberate act of applying the brakes in such a manner, the accident 
was unavoidable. You therefore failed to take reasonable steps to protect your car. By 
misrepresenting the circumstances of the incident, we settled your claim at a cost of 
£1214.00 net of excess, the total loss value of your car. We would have declined paying your 
claim had the circumstance of the incident been presented accurately and/or the dash cam 
footage was received and viewed prior to releasing payment. As a result Tesco Underwriting 
maintain reservation of rights to recover our costs.
Miss L complained to Tesco Underwriting about its proposal to recover from her the money it 
had paid out, but It wouldnt withdraw this. So she complained to us.
In response to this complaint, Tesco Underwriting referred to a different section of the policy:
What is not coveredDeliberate damage to the car by anyone insured under your policy.
 
It said Miss L wasnt covered because she had braked for no apparent reason and would 
have been aware it was inevitable that the TPC would have hit the rear of her car.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that while he 
wouldnt dispute that Miss Ls driving, as shown in the camera recording, was poor on this 
occasion, he wasnt persuade that she deliberately caused the accident.
Miss Ls driving licence showed that as a result of the collision she had been convicted of 
driving without due care and attention. Miss L had said no further charges were made 
against her, such as for dangerous driving, because the prosecution didnt consider the 
accident had been caused on purpose. (She hasnt produced any independent evidence of 
this.)
The investigator thought it unlikely that Miss L would've decided to cause an accident 
whereby the TPC crashed into the back of her fairly small and moderately old car. She 
would've put herself at risk of considerable injury, and even death, given the speeds involved 
and the uncertainty of how quickly the TPC would decelerate before the impact.
The investigator thought the word "deliberate" meant a considered, conscious decision. He 
didn't think it was fair for Tesco Underwriting to conclude that because Miss L's actions 
caused the accident to occur, she must've caused the accident deliberately. And he didn't 
think it was fair for Tesco Underwriting to seek to recover its costs from her.
He thought it had been a stressful time for Miss L with the car accident, the criminal 
conviction, and a disputed insurance claim. Tesco Underwriting had been telling Miss L for 
some time that she would need to pay it the value of the claim, which was a substantial 
amount taking account of the sums it had paid Miss L and the TPC driver. 
The investigator said that as well as agreeing not to pursue Miss L for the claim money, 
Tesco Underwriting should pay her compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset it had 
caused her by unfairly taking the course of action it had.
Tesco Underwriting responded to say, in summary, that:
the recording clearly showed Miss L slamming on her brakes for no reason;
the investigator had said there was an indication that the TPC may have been driving 
in a slightly aggressive manner. However it didnt think the recording showed this at 
all. Even if this was the case, Miss L had clearly then pulled in front and hit her 
brakes for no reason and by doing this, the incident occurring would have been 
inevitable; and
Miss L had told Tesco Underwriting that she deliberately touched her brake to warn 
the TPC driver. However she had told us that she was intending to pull in to a layby 
to allow the TPC driver to pass. So there were inconsistencies within Miss Ls 
explanation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint If Im to allow Tesco Underwriting to cancel the cover under the policy in respect of the 
accident that happened, and to recover from Miss L all that it has paid out in respect of it, I 
need to be satisfied that the wording of the policy allows this, and this would have been clear 
to a consumer reading the policy wording. 
Ive set out above the section of the policy wording that Tesco Underwriting now relies on. 
This says the policy doesnt cover deliberate damage to the insured car. I note it doesnt 
mention other damage, such as to the TPC. 
It isnt possible now to know exactly what was in Miss Ls mind at the time. She says she 
intended to stop and allow the TPC to go past her, but misjudged her braking. Whatever her 
intention, Im not persuaded she intended deliberately to damage her own car. So I dont 
think Tesco Underwriting was entitled to claim back the money it had paid out under this 
term of the policy.
Its not clear whether Tesco Underwriting still seeks to rely on the other term of the policy 
that it quoted to Miss L in March 2019 which is set out above. The full wording of the 
provision is as follows:
Looking after your car
Anyone covered by this policy must take all reasonable steps they can to protect the car, 
and anything in or attached to it, against loss or damage. (This includes making sure that the 
car has all its windows, doors, roof openings and hood closed and locked and all keys or 
devices are kept securely away from the car by you or the person authorised to use the 
car.)
I dont think this wording can reasonably be read as making the policyholder liable for 
damage caused by careless, or even negligent, driving, or that a consumer reading the 
provision would understand this to be the meaning. This would be to overturn one of the 
main purposes of a motor insurance policy.
So I dont think Tesco Underwriting was entitled to claim back the money it had paid out 
under this term of the policy either, and it was wrong of it to threaten to do so.
Putting things right
Since March 2019, Miss L has been living under the threats Tesco Underwriting made to 
recover a substantial sum of money from her, which has caused her worry and distress. As 
well as desisting from trying to recover this money, I agree it's fair and reasonable that 
Tesco Underwriting should pay Miss L compensation of £250 for this distress. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Tesco Underwriting Limited:
1. not to pursue Miss L to recover money paid out in respect of the collision between 
her car and the TPC; and
2. to pay Miss L compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.Lennox Towers
Ombudsman