DRN-2904850
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Vernon Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on his mortgage 
in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base rate). 
What happened
Mr A applied for this mortgage in late-2017. A mortgage offer was issued in January 2018 
which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said Mr A was borrowing £162,400 
over 25 years on a repayment basis. The product was described in the offer as:
The product illustrated is Vernon Building Societys 1.76% 3 Year Discount Up To 95% 
Ltv.
The rate of interest payable is a variable rate, currently 4.95%, with a discount of 1.76% 
for the first 3 years giving a current rate payable of 3.19%.
After this, the rate of interest payable will be Vernon Building Societys standard variable 
rate, currently 4.95% for the remaining term of the loan.
The mortgage completed in February 2018.
In September 2018 Vernon increased its standard variable rate (SVR) by 0.25 percentage 
points, meaning Mr As interest rate increased from 3.19% to 3.44%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr A complained to Vernon after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that Vernon 
hadnt reduced his interest rate, instead it had kept its SVR - and therefore his discounted 
rate product - the same.
Vernon didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 16 April 2020 that it 
needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and at that time it was 
keeping a close watch on things.
As Mr A didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. In his complaint Mr A referred 
to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on treating customers fairly.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Vernon had made Mr A aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out.
Mr As mortgage wasnt a base rate tracker product.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Vernon had exercised those terms fairly.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said that Vernon hadnt acted in the 
best interests of its customer as set out in the FCAs guidance. Mr A asked that his 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr A. Its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are 
based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Whilst I wont make specific mention of the FCAs guidance Mr A has made reference to, 
that is something I must always keep in mind whilst considering any complaint.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr A entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Vernon in the paperwork at the time. 
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
Mr A has, at various times, referred to this as a tracker product, but that isnt the case. The 
mortgage offer provides the following description of the product:
The product illustrated is Vernon Building Societys 1.76% 3 Year Discount Up To 95% 
Ltv.
The rate of interest payable is a variable rate, currently 4.95%, with a discount of 1.76% 
for the first 3 years giving a current rate payable of 3.19%.
After this, the rate of interest payable will be Vernon Building Societys standard variable 
rate, currently 4.95% for the remaining term of the loan.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that is linked to the SVR rather than the 
base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
I understand Mr A believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate 
is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Vernon told Mr A that his interest rate would always change 
in line with the base rate, and his mortgage offer clearly explains the interest rate is linked to 
the SVR (rather than base rate).
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Vernon set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and didnt say  or imply - that it was linked to base rate. Although Im 
satisfied Mr A wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I still need to 
decide if Vernon acted fairly.
Was it fair for Vernon to increase its SVR in 2018, and not reduce it in 2020?
The Residential Mortgage Conditions 2016 booklet records the general terms and 
conditions applicable to the mortgage. That says:7.5 The Society can change the rate of Interest for any of the following reasons (that may 
relate to circumstances existing at the time or those that are expected to apply in the 
near future):-
7.5.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England base rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
7.5.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court, ombudsman or 
relevant regulatory body;
7.5.3 to respond to changes to relevant regulatory requirements;
7.5.4 to respond to new (or changes to) statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection;
7.5.5 to respond to changes in the costs incurred by the Society in providing the 
Mortgage;
7.5.6 to enable the Society to maintain its financial strength, in a reasonable and 
prudent manner, for the benefit of all our members;
7.5.7 to respond to any increased cost or risk incurred by the Society as a result of any 
change of use of the Property or its occupation (for example, if the Property is let); 
or;
7.5.8. for any other reason set out specifically in the Mortgage Offer.
The increase in 2018 was due to clause 7.5.1 and 7.5.5; that is, an increase in the base rate, 
and changes in the costs incurred by Vernon in respect of mortgage lending. But although 
the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate changes, it doesnt say it 
has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Vernons costs increased in 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus Vernon also 
increased its SVR by the same amount of percentage points. 
But it doesnt follow that Vernons costs decreased in March 2020 as the costs dont just 
relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr As mortgage in isolation. The base rate 
decreased, but Vernon incurred additional costs across its mortgage function due to the 
pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage payments werent 
being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way of working, and making its 
branches Covid-secure, for example. 
Vernon needed to make some decisions and it didnt feel able to reduce its SVR in line with 
the base rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of 
uncertainty. It has sent us information in confidence which explains why it didnt reduce its 
SVR in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr A as it is commercially 
sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied that Vernons 
decision wasnt taken lightly and it wasnt unfair. Im satisfied that Vernons costs increased 
in 2020 even though base rate fell. Whilst I acknowledge Mr As frustration that his mortgage interest rate wasnt reduced Im 
satisfied Vernon didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2018, but then didnt 
reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr A may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman