DRN-4332777
The complaint
Mr B and Mr C have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) changed the terms and 
conditions of the travel insurance included with their Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) without notifying them.
What happened
Mr C submitted a claim on the URCA travel insurance. However, he was unhappy with how 
the insurer settled his claim  specifically about how much of a deduction was made to the 
claim to reflect wear and tear.
Mr B and Mr C submitted a complaint to Halifax, as they say it shouldve been drawn to their 
attention beforehand, about how much of a deduction the insurer may make on claims. 
Halifax issued its final response letter and did not uphold the complaint. It said it had notified 
Mr B and Mr C about the change in travel insurance underwriter and changes to the terms 
and conditions.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and overall, they were unable to conclude 
that Halifax had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr B and Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
I understand the basis of Mr B and Mr Cs complaint is that Halifax changed the travel 
insurer on the URCA travel insurance and when Mr C went to make a claim, the new travel 
insurer made a deduction for wear and tear on the claim. Mr B and Mr C say that Halifax 
shouldve made them aware of this specific term when the URCA travel insurer was 
changed.
Halifax has provided evidence to show that it did write to Mr C in September 2021 and 
explained the key changes that were taking place on the URCA benefits from November 
2021. A copy of this was also sent to Mr Cs online banking mailbox too.
So from what I can see, Halifax did inform Mr C about the change of insurer, and the 
subsequent changes to the terms and conditions, as it was required to do.
Mr C has said that Halifax didnt specifically explain in the summary of changes document 
how the new insurer would deal with wear and tear in relation to baggage claims. But I dont 
think this information necessarily needed to be included within the summary document. 
The reason why I say this is because firstly, the summary of the key changes document 
cant reasonably have set out every single term and condition of the policy wording. Had it 
done so, then the document would no longer be a summary and would just be a copy of the 
policy document.
I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy with the wear and tear clause, essentially because it 
happened to directly affect how his claim was settled. But I dont think the depreciation term 
in the policy is particularly unusual, as it can be found in many travel insurance policies. 
Because of this, I dont think it needed to be highlighted or specifically drawn to Mr Cs 
attention. As such, I dont think it is unreasonable if it was not mentioned in documents 
Halifax had sent Mr C that summarise the levels of cover provided (such as an Insurance 
Product Information Document, or an Annual Eligibility Statement).
Finally, I can see that prior to the change in URCA Travel Insurer in November 2021, the 
previous insurer had a similar wear and tear term in the baggage section, which said:
Claims will be considered on a new for old basis provided the item is less than 2 
years old at the date of the incident and You are able to provide the original 
purchase receipt. All other items will be subject to a suitable deduction for wear and 
tear and depreciation or We may at Our option replace, reinstate or repair the lost, 
stolen or damaged Personal Baggage.
Therefore, it seems that a deduction for wear and tear wouldve likely been made to his 
claim, even prior to the change of insurer in November 2021. This also explains why there 
was no mention of it in the September 2021 document summarising the changes being 
made to the URCA travel insurance. 
So given all of the above, Im unable to conclude that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman