DRN-3540008
The complaint
Mr S (a solicitor) represents Ms A and Mr C in this complaint against RAC Insurance Limited.
They complain that RAC will only pay an hourly rate of £120 + VAT for Mr S to act in Mr Cs
employment claim. Cover is provided under a Family Legal Protection policy.
RAC has an agent that administers its claims, but Ill just refer to RAC throughout.
What happened
The dispute is relatively straightforward, and Mr S submits:
A fair hourly rate is that of a Grade A fee earner at £217 + VAT (relevant at the time) 
due to complexity.
The case is complex:
oA four-day trial with three witnesses is listed for September 2022.
oThe claim is for unfair dismissal, direct discrimination, discrimination relating 
to disability.
RAC submits:
The hourly rate offered is a blended rate which could be charged for all work and 
included scope for a Grade B solicitor to carry out the complex elements.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to uphold the complaint and 
require RAC to do the following:
It appears that litigation has concluded as Ive seen an email from RAC to Mr S offering to
settle his invoiced fees and that of Counsel. Logically the next step is for RAC to review
Mr S invoice to assess and calculate what fees were necessarily incurred against the 
Grade B fee earner rate of £192 +VAT per hour by the leading solicitor and settle Ms A and 
Mr Cs claim on that basis.
Im mindful that invoiced costs may include work done by fee earners below Grade B, and
its my view that these costs should be paid at the relevant court guideline rates.
I explained my reasons as follows:
The crux of this complaint centres on whether RAC has offered a fair hourly rate  there are
no issues about whether the claim is covered.
RAC is required to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. While the
policy has a total indemnity limit it doesnt specify the hourly rate its willing to pay where
Ms A or Mr C doesnt use the panel solicitor. And indeed, the only reference to the panel rate
comes within a letter from RACs representative to Mr Cs solicitor once a claim had been
made. If no claim had been made Ms A and Mr C are unlikely to have ever known what
hourly rate RAC would offer to pay.
The policy explains what it will cover in terms of costs and expenses reasonably, properly
and necessarily incurred. In deciding whether RAC has offered a fair hourly rate Im satisfied
the standard court guideline rates are an appropriate consideration. The guideline rates set
out reasonable rates dependent on a fee earners grade and for different areas within
England and Wales. I find these a persuasive set of guidelines.
So, the next step then is for me to determine whether RACs hourly rate offer at £120
(agnostic of fee earner grade) is fair. Mr S believes a Grade A rate for the type of case is fair
whereas RAC say Grade B is appropriate. While it isnt for me to determine whether the
claim is complex or not, Ive considered the fact that the claim essentially centred on one
main issue albeit with different allegations. From whats been provided Mr S information
doesnt persuade me that the case necessitated a Grade A fee earner, and as he asserts for
a higher rate I think its for him to demonstrate, on balance, that the higher rate is a fair
reflection of whats necessary. He has not done so. Having carefully considered everything
Im satisfied RACs offer of a rate for Grade B fee earner is fair - in the guidelines for the
relevant time and place that rate is £192 + VAT.
From RACs response its apparent that it has construed the investigators opinion to mean a
flat rate, so the Grade B rate for all work done. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not
persuaded that would lead to a fair and reasonable outcome. In litigation not all work is
carried out by the leading solicitor (e.g. administration) and so I dont determine that a Grade
B fee earner rate is fair to be charged for all work. It is the rate that should be charged for
fees necessarily incurred by that Grade B fee earner.
Replies to my provisional decision
Mr Cs solicitor replied, in summary he made the following points:
Grade A was justified due to the complexity of the case, the value being more than 
£44,000 and the defendant saw it appropriate to instruct a solicitor who was a partner 
in a firm.
Where work is chargeable at a lower grade fee earner but was nonetheless done by 
the higher rate fee earner, the number of hours should reflect the fact that the higher 
rate earner would do it quicker than the lower rate earner. And so that should be 
factored in by RAC.
RAC replied too, in summary it said:
The claim wasnt complex  the value in the schedule of loss was easy to workout as 
loss of earnings and injury to feelings. Both grade B and C fee earners would be 
deemed competent to deal with such matters.
The hours spent on work and relevant grades will be considered in the assessment 
of the solicitors bill. Its not necessarily always the case that a higher fee earner does 
things quicker and point to completing bundles of documents as an example.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about the reasons given in my provisional decision Im not 
persuaded to change my outcome.RACs assessment of whether it was complex is as compelling as what Mr Cs solicitor says. 
Theyre at odds over whether it was complex but RACs opinion is formed based on advice 
from its solicitors. Its not our role to determine what the costs should be  based on whats 
been provided by the parties Im not persuaded by Mr Cs solicitor that the tribunal claim was 
complex so deserving the higher Grade A fee earner rate. So, because of that Im not 
satisfied Mr Cs solicitor has shown it more likely than not the claim was complex. I remain 
satisfied the hourly rate for a Grade B fee earner in the guidelines for the relevant time and 
place (that rate is £192 + VAT) is fair. 
Im mindful that invoiced costs may include work done by fee earners below Grade B, or by 
Mr S but should be charged at a lower grade. It remains my view that these costs should be 
assessed at the relevant court guideline rates.  
 
Putting things right
In assessing costs RAC will need to be clear which fee earner rate it is applying, to what 
activity and the duration. This will enable Mr C and his solicitor to understand how RAC has 
reached its offer for costs and expenses reasonably, properly and necessarily incurred. It 
would be prudent (albeit not a direction) for RAC to use a costs draftsman to assess the 
costs submitted.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require RAC Insurance Limited to review Mr S invoice to assess 
and calculate what fees were necessarily incurred and settle Ms A and Mr Cs claim on that 
basis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman