DRN-4198848
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Baroda (UK) Limited (BoB) processed a £1,000 transfer that 
he didnt request or authorise.
What happened
Mr P wanted to transfer £1,997 from his BoB account. Because BoBs account terms includ 
a single transfer limit of £1,000, Mr P had to complete the transfer in two separate 
transactions  of £1,000 and £997 respectively. However, Mr P later noticed that three 
transactions had left his account, with the third, unauthorised transaction being for a further 
£1,000. This meant that a total of £2,997 had been transferred from his account. Mr P wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
BoB responded to Mr P and explained that he had instructed all the three transfers that they 
had processed and so didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly. Mr P wasnt satisfied with BoBs 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that BoB had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his complaint. Id 
like to thank Mr P for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that 
I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be 
the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal dispute 
resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr P notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr P and BoB. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ps BoB account include that there is a single transfer limit of £1,000. This 
meant that Mr P had to issue two separate instructions to BoB in order to transfer £1,997 
from his account as he wanted to. And BoB have been able to demonstrate that they 
received instructions from Mr P to transfer £997 and £1,000 respectively.
However, BoB have also demonstrated to my satisfaction that Mr P also made a third 
instruction for a further £1,000. And it seems that Mr P made this third instruction because 
he didnt receive a confirmation from BoB that his initial £1,000 transfer instruction had been 
receiving by them  similar to the confirmation that he had received from BoB regarding the 
£997 transfer instruction. 
As such, I feel its reasonable to conclude that Mr P made a third instruction to BoB, 
instructing them to transfer £1,000 for a second time, because he mistakenly believed that 
his initial £1,000 transfer instruction hadnt been received by them.
I can appreciate why Mr P, having not received a confirmation from BoB, may have believed 
that his initial £1,000 instruction hadnt been received by them. But notably, while Mr P 
instructed BoB to process the £997 transfer on the day of the instruction, his initial £1,000 
transfer instruction included that the transfer should be processed a few days in the future. 
BoB have confirmed that they only send transfer confirmations for same-day instructions  
which the £997 instruction was but the initial £1,000 instruction wasnt. This meant Mr P 
didnt receive a confirmation for the initial £1,000 instruction in the same manner that he had 
for the £997 instruction.
So, while I can understand why Mr P may have felt his initial £1,000 instruction hadnt been 
received by BoB, it had, in actual fact, been received by them. This meant that when Mr P 
re-entered his £1,000 transfer instruction to BoB, he was actually providing a new, third 
instruction to them. This is unfortunate, but I dont feel its unfair. 
Mr P may argue that BoB only issuing a confirmation to one of his initial transfer instructions 
was confusing. But it isnt for this service to instruct a business such as BoB to change its 
processes. And I feel its reasonable to expect that Mr P, having already instructed BoB to 
transfer £1,000 from his account, would have confirmed whether that initial instruction had or 
hadnt been received by BoB before making any replacement instruction. 
Indeed, BoB have been able to demonstrate that, while Mr P didnt receive a confirmation of 
the initial £1,000 instruction, he was required to confirm and authorise that initial £1,000 
instruction via a one-time passcode that was sent to him to do so. And I feel that the fact that 
Mr P did authorise the initial £1,000 instruction via a one-time passcode should reasonably 
have led him to confirm the status of that instruction before issuing the second £1,000 
instruction as he did. 
All of which means that, while I acknowledge that whats happened here is unfortunate, I 
dont feel that BoB have acted unfairly or done anything wrong. Indeed, Im satisfied that, 
ultimately, BoB have processed the three transfers that Mr P instructed them to make. I 
realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, give 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman