DRN-2722376
The complaint
Mr K complains about the security questions HSBC UK Bank Plc asked him when he tried to 
make a payment from his account. 
What happened
Mr K was asked a series of security questions during a phone call with HSBC. The first 
question gave Mr K the day and month from his date of birth, and asked him to give the year. 
The fifth question then asked Mr K to say how old hed be on his next birthday.
Mr K argued this was the same as the first question. His complaints come to us because 
HSBC wont agree with his view. 
Our investigator looked at the case and felt HSBCs security questions were reasonable, but 
Mr Ks issue with them should have been handled better. He felt it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to have initially said Mr K would need to go to a branch to confirm his identity, given 
he wouldnt answer the question about his age. Our investigator recommended a £25 
payment be made, to compensate Mr K for the upset caused. 
HSBC initially disagreed with that view, but said theyd make the payment as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr K asked for a second opinion though, particularly on whether the two questions 
were the same or not. So this case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the point of view of both sides in this case. The two questions are different 
 one asks for a year in the past and the other asks for an age in the future. So I can see 
why HSBC wont agree with Mr Ks view that theyve asked him the same question twice.
But the issue is that both questions test the same bit of knowledge  Mr Ks full date of birth. 
With that, someone could say what year he was born, and work out how old hed be on his 
next birthday. 
Having one bit of knowledge answer two questions undermines the security process. The 
questions HSBC ask should test a range of knowledge that would be hard for anyone other 
than Mr K to know. And it should be efficient, not giving a customer an unreasonably lengthy 
set of steps to go through before they can access their money. 
Its this second point where HSBCs questions fall short. Asking about the same piece of 
knowledge twice doesnt make Mr Ks account any more secure. It just adds to the time and 
effort needed to get through the checks. When Mr K raised his complaint with HSBC, they 
should have done more to show they recognised this point. 
Putting things right
With that said, the impact here isnt too bad. 
The questions were part of a series that HSBC asked. Across the other questions, they did 
enough to make sure Mr Ks account was secure. And the extra time and effort it would have 
taken Mr K to answer the question about his age was minor. 
The situation did escalate though, because of the way HSBC reacted when Mr K raised the 
issue. I agree with our investigator that it wasnt right for HSBC to tell Mr K hed need to visit 
his branch if he wouldnt answer the question. 
Mr K was briefly looking at having to either answer a question he justifiably had an issue 
with, or spend time going to his branch. I can appreciate that would have been annoying for 
him. But it was ultimately sorted out on the same call without him having to do either of those 
things. So the trouble and upset caused was minor, in my opinion.
As such, I find the modest £25 our investigator put forward to resolve that impact is the right 
amount in this case. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. To put things right, they should pay him 
£25 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman