DRN-4050919
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt accept a Power of Attorney 
on her mothers account.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs D made an appointment at a branch of Barclays to enquire about
setting up a Power of Attorney (PoA) on her mothers account at Barclays. Her mother lived
in Finland. In March 2022 she went to Finland and returned to the branch with the necessary
documents. She was told to make a further appointment  which she did in May 2022.
Barclays wouldnt accept the PoA. In February 2022, May 2022 and in August 2022, her
mother was advised that Barclays were going to close her account.
Mrs D complained that Barclays wouldnt register the PoA, even though she provided the
documents needed. She was told several different versions of what was needed, and she
was also told her mother had to go to the branch in person. When she complained to us in
June 2022, she advised she was in the process of transferring her mothers bank account to
another bank.
Barclays said that their requirement for accepting a PoA included checks of up to date and
certified identification (ID) and address verification (AV) for both Mrs D and her mother.
These were checked at the branch but werent found to be satisfactory. Mrs Ds mothers
bank account was likely to be closed due to Barclays decision to close customers account
where they lived outside the UK, but within the European Economic Area (EEA).
Mrs D brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted reasonably.
Barclays wanted to see the necessary documents in line with their requirements and had
advised Mrs Ds mother what was needed. Barclays had made a commercial decision to
close Mrs Ds mothers account and had given six months notice of doing that.
Mrs D didnt agree. He said that she had had mixed messages about what was needed; and
had been told that her mother had to visit the branch in person. That wasnt possible as she
lived abroad, was aged 92 and couldnt travel to the UK to do that. Mrs D asked that an
ombudsman look at her complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision in which I said:
I can see that Mrs D became frustrated by what happened here  because of what she says
she was advised at the branch, and because she had to make several appointments to try to
complete the registration of the PoA.
Ive reviewed what both Mrs D and Barclays have told us. Barclays say they needed certified
copies of ID&VA documents for both Mrs D and her mother. But when Mrs D went to the
branch with the documents, they werent sufficient for Barclays purposes. Barclays told us
that their ID&VA procedures are necessary and cannot be compromised in any way. We
cant challenge Barclays processes here  thats not part of our role. But Mrs D did show us
the copy of her mothers passport which she used as part of the checks. And I can see that it
expired in 2015, and the certification was dated in 2008  and there wasnt a certifiers stamp
on it. So - I can see why Barclays rejected that document. But also  it is up to Barclays to
decide whether the documents passed their checks, or not  and here, they told us they
didnt.
Mrs D has said to us that the service she got at Barclays branch was poor. She said she
had an initial appointment at the branch in January 2022  to establish what documents
were needed. And based on that, she then made a further appointment for March 2022  by
when she had the necessary documents she had been asked to provide. That was
cancelled, and she went for a further appointment in May 2022.  and was then told that
Mrs Ds mother had to visit the branch in person; and the documents werent acceptable. But
- because Mrs Ds mother lived in Finland and was aged 92  a branch visit wasnt possible.
Therefore, Mrs D said she had received mixed messages from Barclays as to what
documents were needed, and appointments were cancelled.
We asked Barclays about this in early January 2023. But unfortunately, they didnt respond
with any information. Therefore, on this aspect of this complaint, I must rely on what Mrs D
has told us. And therefore Im persuaded that there were some delays and servicing issues
at the branch in January 2022, March 2022, and May 2022; and there were some confusing
details given to Mrs D about what documents were needed. I am therefore upholding this
part of Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D has also said that the closure of her mothers account has also been a source of
inconvenience. I can accept that would be the case  as her mother must open another
account with another bank. Barclays took a commercial decision to close accounts of
persons who lived outside the UK but within the EEA. Thats a commercial decision for
Barclays to take  which I cant challenge. But equally, I can see that Barclays first wrote to
Mrs Ds mother in February 2022 to say the account would close in August 2022  so they
gave Mrs Ds mother six months notice of closure. Which I think was a reasonable period to
make other banking arrangements. Barclays also wrote in May 2020 to remind Mrs Ds
mother of what was going to happen.
Mrs D also told us that her mother was in the process of moving her account to another UK
bank. And that she was registering the PoA with that bank. I hope that went well. But what
that also means is that Mrs D and her mother are no longer relying on Barclays for their 
banking, including the PoA  as it will sit with the new bank.
I can see that what happened was frustrating for Mrs D. Barclays were entitled to either
accept or reject the documents they were given, for the reasons Ive described. But Im also
persuaded that there were some mixed messages given to Mrs D by the branch, together
with some service issues there. That must have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs D
 and led to several visits to the branch. For that, I think compensation of £200 is
appropriate.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays accepted the findings. Mrs D reiterated her complaint points  which I have 
reviewed again.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for the further points that Mrs D has made, which Ive reviewed. But  in my 
view, they go over the same ground as Mrs D had already put to us, and which I had 
therefore considered already. Therefore, they do not change my view as previously set out. 
My final decision is therefore unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman