DRN-2771928
The complaint
Mr C complains that Chubb European Group SE turned down a claim made under his health 
cash plan.
 
What happened
In 2017, Mr C was injured in an assault. A claim was made to Chubb under the personal 
accident section of cover. This was turned down as Chubb didnt think the accident was the 
sole cause of Mr Cs condition. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint to this service, 
via his representative. 
Meanwhile, Mr C was pursuing a claim through the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority 
(CICA). Whilst his complaint was with this service, CICA made in a finding in Mr Cs favour 
and made an award of compensation to him. 
We provided Chubb with CICAs findings, as well as a psychiatrists report that CICA had 
relied upon in reaching their decision. Chubb said that since the psychiatrists report was 
from June 2019, it wanted to arrange for Mr C to have an up-to-date assessment. 
Our investigator thought Chubbs offer was reasonable, because there was a conflict of 
opinion between Chubbs specialist and the psychiatrist Mr C had seen in 2019. Also, the 
investigator thought it was reasonable for Chubb to want to arrange an up-to-date 
assessment because, for a claim to be payable, Mr C would need to show that his condition 
was permanent. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr Cs representative has requested to speak with the ombudsman reviewing 
the case. However, after looking at Mr Cs file, I didnt feel this was necessary. Though Id 
like to reassure Mr C (and his representative) that Ive taken into account all the submissions 
made from both parties. 
The cash plan includes personal accident cover. This says:
If you suffer bodily injury as a direct result of an accident which within twenty four months 
of the accident results in death or disablement, benefit will be paid
Bodily injury is defined as:
Injury which is caused (solely and independently of any other cause) by accidental means 
and which, within 24 calendar months from the date of the accident, results in your death or 
disablement.
Accident/accidental is defined as:
A sudden identifiable violent external event which happens by chance and which could not 
be expected, or unavoidable exposure to severe weather.
The plan lists the benefits payable, and the amount is dependent upon the injury. 
It then says that:
payment for any permanent disability not listed above will be based on a medical 
assessment of your disability in relation to this table and not in relation to your ability to 
work.
Permanent disability is defined as:
Disablement that has lasted for at least 12 months and from which it is believed you will 
never recover.
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence to decide whether Chubbs offer to arrange a 
new independent assessment is reasonable. 
In March 2020, Chubb arranged for a consultant neurologist (Dr G) to carry out a desktop 
review of Mr Cs medical records.
Dr G noted that, prior to the assault, Mr C was experiencing a range of problems with 
regards to his alcohol intake. And that after Mr C had been admitted to hospital following the 
assault, medical professionals were concerned about his cognitive decline in the context of 
long-term alcohol abuse.
In 2018, Mr C had been referred to a mental health team because of what was thought to be 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) on a background of alcohol-related brain damage. Dr 
G noted that Mr C was assessed by a consultant neurologist in 2018, who thought he had 
global cerebral atrophy likely attributable to long-term alcohol excess.
Dr G said that he couldnt comment on Mr Cs current symptoms and functional limitations 
without seeing him, but he thought the neurology assessment of 2018 had got the situation 
as precise as it could be at that time. He noted that they identified that Mr C had significant 
atrophy, which was thinning of his brain, and that it had been progressive. Dr G said this was 
likely to be due to alcohol rather than the brain injury, though he acknowledged there may 
have been a small contribution from the fact that Mr C had bleeding around the brain after 
the assault.
Overall, Dr G thought the pre-existing factors of Mr Cs excess alcohol intake would be a far 
greater cause of his impairments than the assault. Though he thought the assault could well 
have contributed to a worsening of Mr Cs psychiatric state. Dr G said with regards to the 
head injury and assault, there would usually be a period of two to three years during which 
there would be a trajectory of recovery. Dr G said he was finding it impossible to try and 
determine how much of a deterioration there was as a consequence of the head injury as 
opposed to alcohol, but he suspected the alcohol deficiency and impairment was the main 
factor. In view of that, he said it wasnt possible to express as a percentage the level of 
overall bodily function that Mr C had lost as a result of the assault, as opposed to the excess 
alcohol intake and his poor regard for his own condition. Mr C then provided a report from a consultant psychiatrist (Dr M) that had been 
commissioned by CICA. 
Dr M had assessed Mr C in June 2019. He thought Mr C had organic brain syndrome (which 
had led to significant cognitive defects), as well as PTSD  both of which he attributed to the 
assault. He acknowledged that Mr C had a history of alcohol dependency syndrome and 
stress-related symptoms which predated the incident. Dr M thought Mr Cs organic brain 
syndrome was a permanent condition, and unlikely to improve. Though he thought Mr Cs 
PTSD could improve with treatment.
Chubb provided Dr G with Dr Ms report and asked for his comments. In February 2021, Dr 
G said that Dr M had assessed Mr C around two years earlier. He thought the only way Mr 
Cs current symptoms could be considered would be through an up-to-date assessment. He 
made the point that rehabilitation services had disappeared in most parts of the country 
during the Covid-19 crisis, and so he thought it was necessary to hear from Mr C what had 
happened with his treatment since hed met with Dr M. Despite Dr Ms conclusion that Mr Cs 
injuries and subsequent impairment were caused by the assault, Dr G said Mr Cs alcohol 
consumption was vast and would have contributed to some of his organic brain syndrome, 
particularly perhaps the brain thinning. Finally, Dr G thought it was reasonable to conclude 
that there was a 50% impairment as a result of the assault. Though he said that in order to 
give a more precise opinion, he would need to see Mr C.
In the circumstances, I think it would be reasonable for Chubb to arrange for Mr C to have an 
up-to-date assessment. Ill explain why.
Its apparent that Dr G and Dr Ms opinions differ on whether the assault alone caused Mr 
Cs organic brain syndrome, or whether his alcohol consumption contributed to this. Theyre 
both experts in their field, though its also the case that Dr M assessed Mr C in person, 
whereas Dr G didnt. However, Dr G did have the advantage of reviewing nearly a years 
more medical information than Dr M. Its therefore difficult to place greater weight on either 
of their evidence.
Where two experts have differing opinions, I usually think its fair for a third expert opinion to 
be sought. Its also the case that Dr M thought Mr Cs PTSD could be improved with 
treatment. As that was around two years ago, Mr Cs condition may well have improved 
since then. Therefore, the independent specialist can comment on whether they think that 
condition is now permanent, or still expected to improve. 
Although Dr G estimated that Mr C had a 50% impairment as a result of the assault, he 
thought Mr C would need to be assessed in order to give a more precise opinion. Therefore, 
if the independent specialist agrees that Mr Cs assault led to permanent disability, they 
should give a percentage of the overall loss of bodily function that Mr C has suffered as a 
result of the assault. I would expect Chubb to take into account that specialists opinion, and 
reconsider its claims decision accordingly. 
Consequently, I think it was fair for Chubb to offer to arrange for Mr C to have an up-to-date 
assessment with an independent specialist. 
Mr Cs representative has asked Chubb if it can arrange for Mr C to have the assessment in 
his home. I understand Chubb are currently making enquiries into whether or not the 
consultant will agree to this. If not, then I understand Chubb has offered to arrange 
transportation for Mr C and his carer to attend the appointment, which seems reasonable.Mr Cs representative has also complained about Chubbs handling of the claim. I see that 
Chubb caused a delay of around five months when it was dealing with the claim. There was 
also a general lack of communication and ownership of the claim, despite the fact that 
Chubb knew Mr C was a vulnerable customer. Chubb has accepted it didnt handle the claim 
well, and has offered a total of £650 compensation for its errors. Im satisfied this was 
reasonable compensation for its poor handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Chubb European Group SE to 
arrange for Mr C to have an independent assessment with a specialist, and then reconsider 
its claims decision in light of that specialists findings.
I further require Chubb European Group SE to pay Mr C £650 compensation (if it hasnt 
already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman