DRN-4088966
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) didnt refund a payment 
he made using his credit card.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr A, using his Creation credit card, purchased an audio/visual 
equipment from a supplier/merchant  I will refer to the supplier/merchant as the Company. 
The total cost charged to Mr As credit card was approximately £848.
Mr A said that the subwoofer, which is part of the audio/visual equipment, has been 
problematic since its purchase. And after about three years it has stopped working 
completely. As Mr A was unable to get a satisfactory resolution from the Company, he 
contacted Creation.
In March 2022, Creation wrote to Mr A and said that they couldnt help him as he didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria for Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Mr A was not happy that Creation wouldnt refund him the money he paid to the Company, 
so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that 
too much time has passed for Creation to raise a chargeback, so he didnt think Creation 
acted unfairly by not raising one. He also didnt think there was a successful Section 75 
claim to be made as he felt that further information would need to be supplied by Mr A to 
establish that the goods had not been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In this decision, I have to consider what is Creations liability to Mr A in the context of this 
specific complaint when deciding if they shouldve done more to help him. Their liability is 
grounded in either the chargeback process, or in Section 75. In considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant law and the related rules of these 
processes into account. 
In addition, this decision is not about the supplier/merchant who isnt a financial service 
provider for the transaction in question and so doesnt fall within this services remit. So, in 
this decision Im only considering the question of whether Creation have treated Mr A fairly. 
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for 
Creation to pursue a chargeback, as long as it is possible to do so (within the scheme rules 
and criteria) and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, Creation could pursue the 
chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome. 
My role in such cases is not to second-guess the card schemes arbitration decision, or the 
schemes rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case Creation) acted fairly 
and reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, the chargeback to the 
supplier/merchant, and also when choosing whether to continue with the chargeback 
process on behalf of their cardholder (in this case, Mr A).
Creation didnt raise a chargeback, so Ive taken this into consideration when looking at 
whether they acted fairly by not pursuing this option. Ive also taken a note of what both 
parties have told us.
As I said, I would consider it good practice for Creation to pursue a chargeback, bearing in 
mind the rules and criteria of the scheme, and when there is a reasonable prospect of 
chargeback success. If Creation had raised the chargeback, I think most likely it wouldve 
been raised under the dispute category of Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described 
or Defective. Under this category, there are time frames that apply. A chargeback needs to 
be raised:
 120 days from when the services ceased with a maximum of 540 calendar days from the
transaction settlement date for issues of interruption of ongoing services
 Between 15 and 120 calendar dates from the transaction settlement date
 Between 15 and 120 calendar dates from the delivery/cancellation date of the goods or 
services.
I can see that Mr A purchased the audio/visual equipment on 3 November 2018 and only 
contacted Creation in March 2022. So, by the time Mr A contacted Creation it wouldve been 
too late for them to raise the chargeback, as it was outside of the above listed time frame. 
So, I dont think they acted unfairly by not pursuing this option. 
Section 75 claim 
Section 75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, Mr A can bring a claim against Creation 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Company, provided that certain 
conditions are met. It is important to note that this test is a very different test to whether Mr A
thinks the Company could have done things better overall. 
As mentioned above, the liability here, under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, has criteria that 
must be met for Creation to be liable under Section 75. For instance, there are criteria 
around the nature of the relationship between the parties. For a valid claim under Section 75 
there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. Creation said that Mr A didnt 
meet Section 75 criteria because there wasnt a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place 
due to the way Mr A paid for the goods. However, I make no finding on this aspect because 
even if the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was in place, I dont think there is evidence of a breach or misrepresentation of the contract  Ill explain below. So, I dont need to make a 
finding on this point.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implied a term into Mr As agreement with the 
Company that the audio/visual equipment supplied must be of satisfactory quality. 
Mr A says that the subwoofer is now not working at all, so I think, most likely, there is a fault 
with it, but the issue that needs consideration is whether the fault was present at the time of 
sale, and whether that fault made the audio/visual equipment of unsatisfactory quality when 
it was supplied. Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be 
problems, such as those experienced by Mr A, in an audio/visual equipment of this price  in 
short, is the audio/visual equipment sufficiently durable. In deciding whether the audio/visual 
equipment was of satisfactory quality, Ive taken into account the relevant circumstances, 
such as the cash price and its age. In this case, Mr A paid approximately £848 for the 
audio/visual equipment, and it was new at the point of supply. 
Mr A said that there was a problem with the subwoofer early into the two-year warranty 
period, and that he contacted the Company. He also told us that there was confusion as to 
whether the fault was due to an auto standby mode, but Mr A said the subwoofer didnt 
seem to work often when it shouldve. And, as it was going to cost him money to send it back 
to the Company for investigation if no faults were found, he chose to continue to just adjust 
settings and monitor the situation. He said it continued to be intermittent and it remained 
unclear whether this was due to poor design not allowing it to wake up correctly from sleep 
mode when it should, or due to a fault or due to an insufficient signal supply. But Mr A said 
that, when the audio/visual equipment was three years old, the subwoofer stopped working 
completely and that the fault with it is not even intermittent anymore. Mr A said this is proof 
that the subwoofer was faulty all along and that it had an inherent fault.
Ive considered what Mr A has said, but Ive also considered that its Mr As responsibility to 
demonstrate that the audio/visual equipment was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Mr A hasnt given anything to show what the actual fault with the audio/visual 
equipment was. And, I understand, that he doesnt think that an independent report would be 
beneficial either. But given the length of time that had passed  three years by the time it 
stopped working completely  I dont think it was unreasonable for him to be required to 
show what the actual fault was.
Also, it is not unreasonable for the audio/visual equipment to suffer from some wear and tear 
in that time frame. The fault couldve been minor or major, or even due to user error. And 
without knowing what was causing the issue, I dont think theres enough to show that the 
audio/visual equipment was most likely of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Creation to have initially declined Mr As claim, although it 
did so for a different reason. Overall, I dont think Mr A has demonstrated that there was a 
breach or misrepresentation of the contract by the Company.
I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Creation has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with his chargeback and his Section 75 claim. So, its not fair or reasonable for 
me to require Creation to take any action in response to Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman