DRN-1670892
 
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs L responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition and explained that she would be responsible for any 
damage to or deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all the damage, that VWFS are 
now making refurbishment charges for, is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. 
Im not persuaded that VWFS need to take into account the fact that the car was 
returned having travelled less than the mileage allowed under the agreement. 
Theres nothing in the contract that allows a consumer to offset the lower mileage 
against any refurbishment costs.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman