DRN-2939789
The complaint
Mr H said PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mr H nine instalment loans as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 16/05/2015 31/07/2015 3 £300.00 £145.60
2 31/01/2016 10/05/2016 4 £300.00 £137.40
3 05/09/2016 30/11/2016 3 £250.00 £133.33
4 02/12/2016 29/09/2017 6 £700.00 £267.86
5 02/10/2017 26/01/2018 3 £200.00 £109.86
6 16/02/2018 06/05/2018 3 £300.00 £193.48
7 28/05/2018 28/09/2018 3 £400.00 £230.61
8 16/02/2019 17/06/2019 3 £200.00 £124.06
9 29/02/2020 07/09/2020 6 £300.00 £138.80
When Mr H complained to Mr Lender it agreed to uphold his complaint in part. Mr Lender 
offered to refund all the interest on Mr H had paid on loans 2, 6 and 7 with interest and 
remove the loans from his credit file. 
Mr H didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us and one of 
our adjudicators investigated.  
In relation to loans 2, 6 and 7, as Mr Lender had already offered to do everything wed 
expect in respect of upheld loans, our adjudicator didnt feel it was necessary to investigate 
those loans further. So our adjudicator concentrated mainly on looking at all the other loans 
Mr Lender had provided to Mr H.   
There was an exchange of correspondence following on from a letter our adjudicator sent 
setting out his initial thoughts. Mr Lender told us more about the background circumstances 
that had led to payment problems Mr H had run into on loan 5. And it said it disagreed that at 
the stage loans 8 and 9 were provided, Mr H was reliant on short-term loans as Mr Lender 
was the only short-term loan provider that he was using at that time. Mr Lender sent us 
some additional information from its credit checks which showed that he had no other 
outstanding loans with any other short-term loan providers.
After reconsidering everything in the light of all the information that had been made 
available, our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that 
Mr Lender had provided loans 1, 3, 4 and 5 to Mr H. But he still felt that loans 8 and 9 
shouldnt have been provided. Our adjudicator set out detailed instructions about the way he 
thought Mr Lender should settle the complaint. 
Mr Lender said it still disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Id like to reassure Mr Lender that Ive 
looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont think I need to say anything in detail about the loans Mr Lender 
offered to uphold. It agreed to refund all interest in relation to loans 2, 6 and 7 and to amend 
Mr Hs credit file. I cant fairly say a lender should do any more than Mr Lender has already 
offered to do. So I havent considered these loans further save to include them in the redress 
and when thinking about Mr Hs overall borrowing pattern. 
Ive reviewed loans 1,3,4 and 5 and I agree with our adjudicator. Looking at the repayments 
that Mr H needed to make on loans 1 and 3, the amounts wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his borrowing 
history at that stage with Mr Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr 
Lender to ask Mr H for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
I do think Mr Lender should have looked further into Mr Hs circumstances before agreeing 
loans 4 and 5. Loan 4 was a big jump in the amount he was asking to borrow and he applied 
for this just 2 days after repaying loan 3. Mr H was also spreading the loan repayments over 
a longer term  most likely in order to keep down the cost of each monthly repayment. And 
by loan 5, I think Mr Lender needed to do more to try and understand why Mr H still needed 
to take out another short term high cost loan. 
But I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows Mr Lender would 
have decided not to agree these loans had it done so. So I agree with our adjudicator about 
not upholding these loans  and as it seems Mr H hasnt mentioned any specific objection to 
what our adjudicator has said about these loans, then I don't think I need say more about 
loans 1,3,4 and 5. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because: 
at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. He had taken out five loans in a row  without any significant 
breaks in lending in around 24 months. 
Although loan 6 was for less than the largest single amount Mr H had borrowed, it 
was still half as much again as the loan he had recently repaid 
Despite what Mr Lender has said, I think the variable loan amounts and gaps in 
lending reflected the fact that Mr Hs finances werent stable  not that he wasnt 
reliant on this type of lending. I think by loan 6 a pattern of dependency was apparent 
in respect of his lending. 
Mr Lender said its checks showed that it was the only short term loan provider Mr H 
was using at that time  but that doesnt mean Mr H wasnt reliant on short term 
loans. I think Mr H had become reliant on Mr Lender providing him with short term 
loans. At this point Mr Lender ought to have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
In my view, Mr H lost out when Mr Lender provided loan 6 because this loan had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit over an 
extended period of time. And the number of loans and the sheer length of time over which 
Mr H borrowed was likely to have negative implications on his ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. 
I've taken carefully into account Mr Lenders view that loans 8 and 9 should be considered 
as stand-alone loans rather than linked loans in a single chain of borrowing.  
I take a different view to Mr Lender on this point. I dont agree with Mr Lender when it says 
that the gap between loans 7 and 8 was sufficient to say this broke the lending chain. The 
gap between Mr H paying loan 7 and applying for loan 8 was less than five months. Mr H 
had been borrowing regularly since the start of 2016 more than two years earlier  so to my 
mind, overall this gap wasnt particularly significant. And I think its fair to view loan 8 in the 
context of that overall borrowing pattern. 
I accept that in some circumstances it might be fair to say the 8 months or so gap between 
Mr H paying loan 8 and taking out loan 9 could be long enough to suggest that it would be 
fair to treat the borrowers next loan application as if he was starting afresh. But I don't think 
thats a reasonable assumption here. I say this because:
Mr H was asking to borrow exactly the same amount he had taken out with 
Mr Lender some five years earlier when he first started borrowing from Mr Lender 
and this was also the same amount as when he returned to borrow again from 
Mr Lender after a break between loans 1 and 2
and he had continued to rely on Mr Lender providing him with a new loan despite the 
gap that Mr Lender flagged up between loans 7 and 8. 
So overall, in the context of Mr Hs long standing lending relationship with Mr Lender, I dont 
think this gap in lending was enough for Mr Lender to be reassured that Mr Hs financial 
circumstances had improved during the period when he hadnt been actively borrowing from 
Mr Lender after paying loan 8. Rather, I think it looked more likely that despite all the loans 
hed had, Mr H hadnt ever managed to achieve long term financial stability and this overall 
picture of his financial situation showed that Mr H had long been struggling with debt. 
This is why I think its fair to consider loans 8 and 9 as part of this overall picture of 
borrowing  and to assess them accordingly. So in addition to the loans it has said it will uphold, Im also planning on upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about loans 8 and 9.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H told us he is satisfied with what I've said and doesnt wish to add anything else. 
Mr Lender acknowledged my provisional decision and said it would be in touch if it had any 
further comments. The deadline for responses has now ended and I've heard nothing 
further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly if a relationship existed between 
his and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was 
even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.So heres what Mr Lender needs to do.
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2, 6, 7, 8 and 9, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay the sum of A + B to Mr H.
D. Mr Lender has already said it will remove from Mr Hs credit file any entries it made 
for loans 2, 6 and 7. In addition, Mr Lender should also remove all entries about 
loans 8 and 9 from Mr Hs credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks 
Mr Lender for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, Mr Lender should 
provide this. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman