DRN-2593561
The complaint
 Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly advised him that his 
credit limit had been reduced as a result of adverse credit data and that it misled him in 
relation to his Data Subject Access Request. Mr J seeks an apology and substantial 
compensation for the impact this has had on him. 
What happened
 Mr J received a letter from Halifax on 29 October 2019 saying it had reduced his credit limit 
from £10,000 to £500 following information it had received from three Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) that suggested he might have difficulty in meeting his commitments. Mr J 
replied immediately to say this was untrue and defamatory. He asked for a copy of the 
information from the CRAs but although Halifax wrote to Mr J twice in November, it didnt 
provide the information hed requested. Mr J chased again but when he got no response, he 
made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) on 5 December.
After contacting Mr J twice in March and April 2020 to explain the delay in dealing with this 
request, Halifax wrote to Mr J on 5 May to say the DSAR was completed within its 
guidelines. It went on to say that some of the information it had was bank sensitive 
information that couldnt be disclosed to customers. 
Mr J remained concerned that Halifax hadnt provided all the relevant information, including 
its original letter to him of 29 October and the CRA reports. He referred his complaint to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who, he says, agreed that Halifax hadnt followed 
the correct procedures when checking Mr Js credit worthiness. While the ICO didnt award 
compensation to Mr J, it did make a number of recommendations to Halifax going forward.
In July 2020 Mr J brought his complaint to this service. He said that, in order to resolve the 
complaint, he wanted Halifax to apologise for its misinformation at the start of his complaint 
and to compensate him for the inconvenience of what had happened, including having to 
continuously chase the bank for over a year.
In response Halifax acknowledged that the detailed enquiries it made for the ICO 
investigation hadnt shown any adverse credit information on Mr Js file to justify its decision 
to reduce his credit limit. The CRAs had reported no information, not adverse data, but this 
had been mistakenly recorded as a negative against his credit worthiness. Halifax felt the 
error would have become clear sooner if it had carried out a manual review of its decision, 
as it had offered to do. Mr J however had declined and closed his account instead.
While it apologised for not initially providing Mr J with an explanation about the lack of the 
CRA reports, it said there was some information, such as its lending policies,that it wasnt 
required to provide and this was what it had been referring to in its final response letter in 
May. It offered an apology to Mr J and to pay compensation for the time this had taken and 
for the wrong information hed been given at the start.
Our investigator noted that the reason Halifax had initially given for reducing Mr Js credit 
limit was wrong. This had caused Mr J a lot of frustration, as had the time it had taken to 
resolve this query. In the circumstances she understood why Mr J felt so strongly about the 
way Halifax had dealt with his complaint. But complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity 
so we werent able to look at this particular issue. Instead shed considered the way Halifax 
had handled Mr Js DSAR request. Having done so, she recommended Halifax pay Mr J 
£300 for the misinformation at the start, the delay in dealing with this and for the upset and 
inconvenience Mr J had had in chasing Halifax about this for over a year. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said, in 
summary;
it wasnt possible to separate the complaint handling from the DSAR request. 
his complaint wasnt that the matter had been looked at by a number of different 
people within Halifax but that these people had claimed theyd reviewed this matter in 
detail when it seemed clear they hadnt. He felt this showed Halifaxs responses had 
been deliberately untruthful and this hadnt been addressed.
It was the data compliance officers role to make sure that all relevant information 
was provided to Mr. J, including the CRA reports. He hadnt done so and when Mr. J 
queried this, hed then said it couldnt release bank sensitive information. This was 
misleading as there was no relevant credit data. Mr. J felt this should have been 
made clear before hed had to complain to the ICO with all the additional 
inconvenience, stress  and additional time this had involved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that theres limited information on some points so I should explain that where theres 
no information on any particular point, or the information available was incomplete or 
disputed, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities , in other words whats more 
likely than not to have happened taking into account the information available and the wider 
circumstances of the case.
Its not in dispute that the letter Halifax sent to Mr J in October 2019 was based on a mistake 
as to the credit information Halifax had received. Halifax has acknowledged it had in fact 
received no data rather than adverse data but , for some reason this had been taken as a 
negative finding against Mr Js credit status rather than either a neutral point or an indicator 
to carry out further checks. As a result, Mr Js credit limit on his Halifax card was reduced 
significantly. Halifax has acknowledged its error on this point and the ICO has also made 
recommendations as to its future approach in such cases so I dont propose to go into it in 
more detail.
I dont underestimate the impact this has had on Mr J. He had to make repeated contact with 
Halifax to try to get answers to his query about why his credit limit had been reduced and 
when he didnt get a detailed response, he had in turn to refer the matter to both the ICO and 
to this service.
However, many of Mr Js concerns relate to the way Halifax dealt with his complaint. He 
explains very clearly that he doesnt feel his concerns were adequately investigated. In 
particular, that it wasnt until the ICO became involved that Halifax accepted that it hadnt 
received adverse credit data and that its decision, and responses, had been based on a 
misunderstanding of the correct position.I have every sympathy for Mr J and Id agree that if Halifax had looked into this matter more 
closely when Mr J first complained, the issue might have been resolved much sooner.  
However, in deciding what complaints we can accept and what issues we can consider, we 
have to comply with the rules as set out in the FCA handbook. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1 only allows this service to consider complaints about certain regulated 
activities as set out in the handbook. Complaint handling isnt one of the listed activities and 
so Mr Js complaint about the way Halifax handled his complaint is not something I can 
consider.
I have however looked at the issues that lead to the Mr Js original complaint to Halifax and 
to the way Halifax dealt with Mr Js DSAR request.  
As has been said, the decision to reduce Mr Js credit was based on a misunderstanding as 
to the credit information received. I note Halifax has said that if Mr J had agreed, it would 
have carried out a manual review that would have identified the problem sooner but it didnt 
do so as he decided to close his card instead. Ive taken this into account but I havent seen 
any good reason to explain why it couldnt have done this when Mr J first raised his concerns 
about the missing documents provided under his DSAR request.  If it had, it seems 
probable it would have identified that it hadnt received any adverse credit reports and this, in 
turn, would have enable it to offer a more accurate explanation as to the documents 
provided to Mr J. 
Unfortunately, it didnt do so and it wasnt until Mr J took his complaint to the ICO that it 
appears the more detailed investigation was undertaken that explained the mistake. For that 
reason, I would agree with Mr J that the way Halifax dealt with this request wasnt as 
detailed as it should have been and that this prolonged the time it took to resolve his 
concerns.
I note what Mr J has said about the banks responses at this time but while I appreciate how 
strongly Mr J feels about this, I havent seen information to show that the bank was being 
deliberately misleading rather than it had simply misunderstood the information it held. 
  
Putting things right
I can see that Halifax has now offered Mr J an apology and £300 compensation but that Mr J 
feels this isnt enough to reflect the impact on him or the time he has spent trying to resolve 
his query.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr J has suffered an actual financial loss so what Im 
looking at is the distress and inconvenience hed had as a result of whats happened.  
Theres no precise of calculating such awards and each case will depend on its own facts 
but Ive given very careful consideration to the impact this mistake has had on Mr J and the 
time that it lasted. 
Mr J has said the decision, and the letter of 29 October, was defamatory. Defamation is a 
legal issue that is better resolved by the courts but Ive looked at the impact of the letter on 
Mr J. I can understand why Mr J felt so upset at the implications of this letter but as it was a 
private letter sent only to Mr J I dont consider there was any actual impact other than the 
upset and worry that it will have caused. 
Nevertheless, I dont underestimate the upset and inconvenience this caused Mr J. Ive also 
taken into account that Halifax didnt initially accept it had made a mistake and that Mr J had to pursue this matter with some determination. But following the ICO investigation, Halifax 
accepted its mistake and indicated it was willing to compensate Mr J for what had happened.
Mr J may not agree but taking all of the information into account I consider that £300 is a 
reasonable amount for the upset and inconvenience hes had as a result of Halifaxs 
handling of his DSAR request. For that reason, I consider that the steps taken by Halifax to 
resolve this are reasonable wont be asking Halifax to do anything more with regard to this 
complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to apologise and to pay Mr J £300 compensation for the trouble and upset hes had 
as a result of poor handling of his DSAR request.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman