DRN-4075727
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) gave her an assumed pension age of 
65 in her two personal pension policies held with it, when shed applied for a pension age of 
60. She also complains that, as a Market Value Reduction (MVR) potentially applies to one 
of her policies until she reaches age 65, she cant retire at her chosen age of 60 without 
accepting a large reduction to the value of her policy. 
What happened
In January 1990, after taking financial advice through another business, Mrs T started a 
personal pension policy with a business which went on to become part of Phoenix. Later that 
year, she transferred the value of the benefits shed built up in an employers scheme into a 
further policy with Phoenix. This had both Protected Rights (PR) and Non-Protected Rights 
(NPR) elements. Both the PR and NPR parts were invested in a unit-linked managed fund.
The original policy also had PR and NPR elements. The NPR element was also invested in a 
until-linked managed fund. But the PR element was invested in the With-Profits (WP) fund. 
This meant that this part of the policy could be subject to an MVR.
Phoenix sent Mrs T annual statements for the two policies. It said that before 2010, it based 
the projections included in these on a pension age of 60. But that at the end of 2010, it used 
a pension age of 65 for everyone unless a policyholder was already over age 65, when it 
used age 70.
Mrs T said that the Normal Retirement Age (NRA) of the transferred plan had been 60. And, 
as shed always intended to retire by age 60, she believed that shed chosen a pension age 
of 60 in both of the policies.
Phoenix sent Mrs T retirement benefit illustrations for both policies in April 2022. These 
showed an estimated pension savings value of £41,305.16 for the original policy. After an 
MVR of £8,024.43 and an Early Claim Charge of £49.35 were deducted, the reduced 
estimated pension savings value shown was £33,231.38.
The illustration said the following about the MVR: 
The purpose of an MVR is to maintain fairness between plan holders exiting the fund and 
those remaining in it. An MVR is usually applied when the current value of your investment is 
lower than the value of the guaranteed benefits available when you access your pension 
savings. An MVR will reduce the value of your pension savings.
It also said: 
A Market Value Reduction (MVR) may be applied to any investments in the with-profit 
accounts. An MVR is used to reduce the claim value of the pension savings, where the 
current value is greater than the fair share of the underlying investments. Please see your 
copy of the guide to how we manage our with-profit fund.
The pension plan has at least one date when we guarantee that no MVR will be applied, 
known as an MVR free date. The table also shows the next MVR free date following the 
pension date.
The illustration stated that the next MVR free date was the date Mrs T would turn 65.
Phoenixs retirement benefit illustrations for the transferred in policy showed that no MVR 
applied to that policy.
In April 2022, Mrs T complained to Phoenix. She said that she was considering her 
retirement options. She said shed always wanted to retire by age 60. But her annual 
statements stated she had an assumed pension age of 65. She asked Phoenix to explain 
why she had an assumed pension age of 65 and why her policy would have an MVR until 
age 65. She didnt want to wait until age 65 to be able to access her pension without the 
MVR. Mrs T said shed been previously told that she could take her pension any time from 
age 55. 
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 14 May 2022. It said it felt Mrs Ts 
complaint was that she had been mis-sold her two pension policies. And didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said Mrs Ts policies had been arranged by her financial adviser at the 
time. And that as it wasnt involved in any advice it couldnt say whether the policies were 
suitable for her needs, or if shed been properly advised.
Phoenix also said that all complaints against Mrs Ts financial adviser were now being 
handled by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Mrs T was unhappy with Phoenixs reply. So she brought her complaint to this service. In 
addition to the points shed made to Phoenix, she also felt that the change to her pension 
age would mean that the 4% guarantee she had on her policy wouldnt apply as it had before 
the change. And that this was a financial disadvantage. She wanted Phoenix to change her 
pension age back to 60, so that she wasnt financially disadvantaged by the MVR and still 
had the option of the 4% guarantee at age 60.
Our investigator asked Phoenix for further information about the complaint. He felt Mrs Ts 
main complaint wasnt about the sale of the policies, which Phoenix had covered in its final 
response letter. Instead, he said it was about the change of her assumed retirement age 
from 60 to age 65 without her consent. He asked it to provide its comments on the matter.
Our investigator said that it was possible that Mrs Ts complaint was out of this services 
jurisdiction. So asked Phoenix if it consented to this service looking into the complaint. 
Phoenix gave its consent.
Phoenix said that when Mrs Ts policies had started, there was no selected intended 
retirement age on that type of policy. It said although it was possible to take benefits at any 
time from age 55, the full fund value would only be available from age 65.
Phoenix also said that before 2010, any annual statement or projections issued were based 
on a retirement age of 60 for policyholders under 60. But that following changes to its 
systems at the end of 2010, all annual statements or projections would be based on a 
retirement age of 65, unless a policyholder had already gone past this age, when it would be 
70. 
Phoenix said that an MVR could be applied to the PR element that was invested in the WP 
fund. But that Mrs T could take the benefits separately from her two policies. And this meant 
that she could take all of the second policys benefits, and the NPR part of her original policy without an MVR being applied.
Phoenix said it had acknowledged that Mrs T wanted to take her benefits at age 60. It said 
she could do this. And that it had explained what benefits would be lost. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mrs T could still 
take her pension benefits whenever she wanted. And he didnt consider that Phoenix had 
unfairly changed Mrs Ts assumed retirement age, as it had been done for all their 
consumers in the WP fund. 
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator. She made some points about what shed been told 
about the policies during the sale. She also said: 
- Shed never asked Phoenix to waive the MVR.
- She didnt think Phoenix had dealt with her complaint.
- She felt that the fact find would show that her intended NRA when shed taken the 
policies out had always been 60. So she felt that Phoenix had incorrectly assumed it 
to be 65 with no evidence. And that this had financially disadvantaged her. She also 
said that if Phoenix hadnt provided an option to select an NRA, it couldnt be fair. 
She felt that would mean that Phoenix could decide for each policyholder invested in 
the WP fund when their NRA should be and that it could then apply MVRs at will. 
- She said our investigator had failed to deal with the fact that she would lose out on 
the 4% guarantee she had on her WP fund that wouldnt now apply until age 65.
- She didnt agree that the change from age 60 to 65 was fair just because Phoenix 
had treated everyone in the same way. She said shed have never taken the policy 
out if shed known she wouldnt be able to take some of the benefits unreduced until 
age 65. And that she had never been told that her NRA had been changed from 60 to 
age 65, or how it would affect her. She felt that Phoenix must have a duty of care to 
inform policyholders, and to give them alternative options, if the terms and conditions 
of the policy changed. 
- Mrs T also said that she hadnt taken the policy out with Phoenix, but with a different 
business. She said it wasnt her fault that the policy was subsequently taken over by 
Phoenix who changed their processes at the end of 2010. 
Our investigator asked Phoenix for further information, including the original fact find, so that 
he could consider Mrs Ts points.
Phoenix provided a copy of the original application forms for the policies, but said it didnt 
have a copy of the fact find that was completed as it had only acted as product provider. It 
also said that although the State Pension Age (SPA) had been 60 for Mrs T when the policy 
started, that changed to 65 in 2010. It said that Section 16 of the policy terms and conditions 
explained that for a PR policy like Mrs Ts, the pension age would be the SPA. 
Phoenix said that although the illustrations and projections that were issued before 2010 did 
show a pension age of 60, the later annual statements showed a pension age of 65.
Our investigator replied to the points Mrs T had raised after hed issued his view. He made 
the following points: 
- The selected retirement date for the PR policy was decided by the policy terms and conditions as the SPA. And that was why it changed from 60 to 65. So it was in line 
with UK legislation and wasnt unfair. 
- He acknowledged that Mrs T may not be able to take all of her pension at age 60 
without an MVR applying. But still didnt think that Phoenix was unfairly stopping her 
from accessing her pension benefits at age 60.
- He acknowledged Mrs Ts points about the 4% guarantee. And said it tied in with his 
finding that as her WP fund was operated with a target age of retirement of 65, then 
taking her benefits earlier would result in an MVR. And that this would mean the 
potential loss of the associated benefits such as the 4% guaranteed growth. But that 
didnt mean that Phoenix had done anything wrong.
Mrs T didnt think either Phoenix or our investigator had accurately documented her 
complaint. So she sent a summary of her issues for me to consider. This included the 
following points that Ive not noted earlier:
- Mrs T said her complaint was that Phoenix had changed her selected retirement age 
from 60 to 65. She felt this meant that the MVR would be applied for five more years 
than expected. And that she wouldnt benefit from the 4% increase for another five 
years. She also said that shed been told at the point of sale that if she took her 
benefits at age 60 that an MVR wouldnt be applied.
- She didnt think that it was reasonable to expect her to know at outset that there was 
a risk that her selected retirement age could be changed by Phoenix. And that any 
MVR applied at the time could also be extended to the new retirement age.
- She said that in her April 2022 retirement pack from Phoenix, it hadnt been made 
clear that the MVR only applied to the PR part of the policy. Instead, it simply showed 
an MVR of £8,024.43 being deducted. She felt Phoenix hadnt been transparent by 
making the figures look as if the MVR would be deducted from the whole fund. She 
also felt that, given how high the MVR was, our investigator had been incorrect to say 
that Phoenix hadnt prevented her from taking the total fund. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs T. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Mrs T has provided a number of comments for me to consider. While Ive carefully 
considered all of the points she made, I havent directly addressed any of the points relating 
to the sale of the policy. This is because this was the responsibility of Mrs Ts financial 
adviser, not Phoenix, so its not directly relevant here.
Ive been provided with a number of annual plan updates. These show that the pension age 
was initially shown as age 60. But that it was shown as age 65 after 2010. Ive also been 
provided with the original application forms for both policies. And while I can see no 
reference to a selected retirement date on these forms, I can see that the benefits were 
projected to age 60. This complaint mainly focuses on Mrs Ts belief that she was able to choose her intended 
retirement age on application, and that she chose age 60. She felt this meant that no MVR 
could be applied to her policy values as long as she took her retirement benefits at age 60. 
I first considered if Mrs T was able to choose an NRA of 60 when she started the policies. 
And if such an NRA meant that no MVR would be payable from age 60. 
Was it possible to choose an NRA of 60 without an MVR?
I acknowledge that Mrs T felt shed actively chosen an intended NRA of 60 when shed taken 
the policies out. And therefore Phoenix had been wrong to assume her intended NRA was 
65. She also said shed have never taken the policy out if shed known she wouldnt be able 
to take some of the benefits unreduced until age 65. 
But Ive not found any place on either of the application forms where Mrs T could select her 
intended retirement age. Therefore Im satisfied that although her assumed retirement age 
was listed as 60 initially  as it wouldve been for any other policyholder at the time in 
documentation sent to her before 2010 - that it was fairly changed to 65 when Phoenix 
changed its systems at the end of 2010. 
This doesnt mean I dont believe Mrs Ts testimony that she was clear at the time she 
started the policies that she intended to retire at age 60. And that shed been told at the point 
of sale that if she took her benefits at age 60 an MVR wouldnt be applied. It simply means 
that Ive found no documentary evidence that Phoenix was informed of the intended 
retirement age. And Im satisfied that, under the terms and conditions of the policy, an MVR 
wouldve always applied at age 60.
Mrs T also said that Phoenix never told her that her NRA had been changed from 60 to age 
65, or how it would affect her. She felt Phoenix should have a duty of care to both inform 
policyholders, and to give them alternative options, in such situations.
I understand why Mrs T has made these points. But, as Ill explain in more detail in this 
decision, I dont agree that Phoenix did make a change to the policy terms and conditions. 
I say this because Phoenix has confirmed to this service that there were no changes to the 
terms and conditions when it took over from the business that Mrs T originally started her 
policies with. And because the change of pension age from 60 to 65 came about after a 
change to UK pensions legislation, not because Phoenix decided to change the terms and 
conditions. Ill explain this in more detail below.
Mrs T also said that if Phoenix hadnt provided an option when she started the policies to 
select an NRA, it couldnt be fair. She felt that if Phoenix could decide when a customer's 
selected retirement should be for the WP fund, there was nothing to stop it from changing it 
again so that an MVR could be applied for longer. She also didnt understand why, as her 
SPA was now 67, her assumed pension age hadnt changed again.
Phoenix said that Section 16 of the terms and conditions explained that in the case of a PR 
policy, the pension date would be the date specified by the Secretary of State as the SPA. 
This was increased from 60 to 65 for females in 2010, after Mrs T had taken out the plans. 
Phoenix also told us the following about the change from 60 to 65:
when the plan commenced, there was no selected Intended Retirement Date on these 
types of policy. Benefits can be taken any time from age 55, though the full fund value would 
only be available from age 65. Prior to 2010, any annual statement or projections issued were based on a retirement age of 60 for policyholders under 60. following changes made 
to our systems at the end of 2010, the new basis meant that all annual statements or 
projections would be based on a retirement age of 65, unless she over 65, when it would 
have been based on age 70. 
Section 13 of the terms and conditions in force at the time of the sale covered switching. It 
said that if the policyholder hadnt attained age 65 at the time of the switch, the value of any 
cancelled units in the WP fund would be determined by the Actuary  that is, an adjustment 
could be made. Section 15, on transfer values, also stated that a policyholder had to have 
attained age 65 or a deduction to be determined by the Actuary would be made. Section 17, 
covering the policy value at the pension date, also said that adjustments would be made, at 
the discretion of the Actuary, to a policy value if the policyholder hadnt attained the age of 
65 at the date of cancellation of the units. 
Having carefully reviewed the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that they indicated that, at 
the time Mrs T took out her Protected Rights policy, her pension date would be 60, as this 
was the SPA at the time. However, when the SPA was changed in 2010 to 65 for women, 
Phoenix changed its systems to reflect the updated pension date of 65. 
I can see that Mrs T doesnt understand why Phoenix assumed her retirement age was 65. 
But I consider that the rest of the policy terms and conditions already specified that until a 
policyholder  whether male or female  reached age 65, an adjustment could be made to 
the value of any cancelled WP fund units  that is, an MVR could be applied. 
Therefore, although I know this will be disappointing to Mrs T, Im satisfied that Phoenix has 
acted fairly in using an assumed intended retirement age of 65 for the policy. And that it 
didnt cause her a financial loss. I appreciate that Mrs T is unhappy that she now has to wait 
until age 65, instead of 60, to receive unreduced pension benefits from her policy. But that 
was always the case. Even if Mrs T had reached age 60 before 2010, an MVR would still 
have applied if shed wanted to take her benefits at that point. 
I say this because the terms and conditions stated that adjustments to the value of the WP 
fund could be made if the policyholder hadnt reached age 65. This was always the case, 
regardless of the assumed intended retirement age shown on Mrs Ts statements. 
I also note that the application forms Mrs T completed in 1990, contained the following 
statement in the declaration she signed on 29 June 1990:
d) For Protected Rights benefits, the pension date will be state pension age, although I 
understand that these benefits may be taken at any time after these ages, but not later than 
the day before my 75th birthday.
I consider that this statement made it clear that Mrs Ts pension date wasnt one of her 
choosing, but was her SPA. Mrs T indicated she was comfortable with these statements 
when she signed the declaration.
I understand why Mrs T is still concerned that Phoenix could change her intended retirement 
age again, as her own SPA is now 67. However, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions 
state that 65 is the age which must be reached before no adjustment to the policy value 
would be made. As such, and given theres no longer a universal SPA for all policyholders, I 
dont think it would be helpful for Phoenix to amend the assumed intended retirement date to 
an age higher than 65. But even if it did, it wouldnt mean that Mrs T would lose out 
financially. An MVR would only apply if she accessed the funds in her WP investment before 
age 65, in line with the policys terms and conditions. Therefore Im also satisfied that an MVR couldve applied to the value of Mrs Ts WP funds 
at age 60, even when her assumed retirement age was listed on her annual statements as 
age 60, as it was before 2010. In effect, when the SPA change led to the change in policy 
age, this didnt change anything in respect of the MVR. It would still apply up to age 65, as it 
always had. It simply wasnt possible to choose an NRA of 60 without an MVR.
I also acknowledge that Mrs T said shed understood when she started the policies that she 
could always take her benefits from any time after age 55. I can confirm that this is correct 
under current pensions legislation. But that an MVR would apply if she took the benefits from 
her WP fund before age 65. 
I know Mrs T considers that, as the current MVR is quite large, it wouldnt be sensible for her 
to take the benefits from her WP fund at this point. I cant comment on this. All I can say is 
that although an MVR would apply to the WP fund until Mrs T reaches age 65, she could still 
choose to take her benefits at any time. So Phoenix hasnt done anything wrong in this case.
I went on to consider the other complaint points Mrs T has raised. 
The impact of the pension age change on the 4% per year WP fund guarantee
Mrs T said that our investigator had failed to deal with the fact that she would lose out on the 
4% guarantee she had on her WP fund that wouldnt now apply until age 65. She felt the 
change of pension age from 60 to 65 meant that the MVR would now be applied for five 
more years than expected. And that she wouldnt benefit from the 4% increase for another 
five years. 
As our investigator noted, Phoenix manage Mrs Ts WP fund with a target retirement age of 
65. So if the benefits from that fund are taken before this age is reached, an MVR is applied. 
Therefore, although Mrs T does currently have a 4% guarantee on the annual growth of her 
WP fund, if the MVR were to apply, this would effectively be lost. This WP fund has been 
operated on the basis of a target retirement age of 65 for the whole time Mrs T has had her 
two policies. The target retirement age didnt change to 65 when Phoenix changed Mrs Ts 
pension age from 60 to 65.
So Phoenix hasnt acted incorrectly, or done anything wrong. Instead, it has operated the 
WP fund and the MVRs in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, with the aim of 
ensuring that all policyholders are treated fairly. 
I can see that Mrs T has always considered the 4% to be a full guarantee. But I consider that 
the information Phoenix sent Mrs T about this benefit was clear. For example, the April 2022 
retirement benefit illustration for the policy invested in the WP fund said:
An MVR is usually applied when the current value of your investment is lower than the 
value of the guaranteed benefits available when you access your pension savings.
I consider that this effectively states that, even if there are guaranteed benefits, an MVR can 
still be applied in certain circumstances.
The April 2022 illustration also stated that the next MVR free date was the date Mrs T would 
turn 65. I consider that this indicates that an MVR would be applicable up to Mrs Ts 65th 
birthday, regardless of the 4% guarantee.
Overall, Im satisfied that there was no impact on the 4% per year WP fund guarantee when 
the pension age changed from 60 to 65.The clarity of the April 2022 retirement pack
Mrs T said that the April 2022 retirement pack from Phoenix didnt make it clear that the 
MVR only applied to the PR part of the policy. She felt Phoenix hadnt been transparent. She 
said after receiving this letter, she didnt know she could take the NPR part of her pension 
without an MVR. 
I can understand why Mrs T feels this way, as I consider it wouldve been better if the figures 
shown in the retirement pack had clearly shown that the MVR only applied to the PR part of 
the policy. However, I consider that there was enough information available to Mrs T for her 
to have known that only that part of her pension invested in the WP fund was subject to the 
MVR. And if shed wanted to know exactly what the values of the PR and NPR elements of 
her policy were before and after the MVR had been applied, she couldve asked for this 
information. 
I also note that Mrs T received a second retirement pack for her transferred policy at the 
same time. This showed that no MVR applied to her benefits in that policy. Despite that, Mrs 
T didnt take those retirement benefits at that time. Therefore Im not persuaded she 
wouldve taken all the benefits from her second policy, and just the NPR benefits from her 
initial policy, if shed known at the time she received the illustrations that this was possible. 
So I dont think shes been financially disadvantaged here.
In summary, I acknowledge that Mrs T feels like she was better off before she realised her 
pension age had been changed from 60 to 65. But I dont agree.  
The evidence shows that the age at which the MVR wouldnt apply was always 65. So the 
fact that the pension age has been changed from 60 to 65 has made no financial difference 
to Mrs T. 
Mrs T also feels that she has a 4% per year guarantee on her WP investment until she 
disinvests from that fund. But if she disinvests before she reaches age 65, there is still the 
potential for an MVR to be applied. This was always the case. And hasnt changed because 
Mrs Ts pension age changed from 60 to 65 on her annual policy statements.
Therefore I havent found evidence that Phoenix did anything wrong here. So I cant uphold 
the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman