DRN-2375987
The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold a personal pension plan to him in 1986.
What happened
The sale that Mr C is complaining about was made by Abbey Life. But that firm is now the 
responsibility of Phoenix. So for ease it is Phoenix that I will refer to as the selling business 
throughout this decision.
Mr C held a Retirement Annuity Contract with Phoenix that he had opened in 1984. Two 
years later Phoenix advised Mr C to open an additional personal pension plan. The notes 
from the time suggest that this advice was given to allow Mr C the possibility of taking some 
of his pension savings from age 50, rather than age 60 as per the terms of the retirement 
annuity.
Mr C has previously complained to Phoenix about the investment performance of his 
pension savings. Another ombudsman has decided that complaint shouldnt be upheld. So 
this decision will only deal with the advice Mr C received to take out the additional personal 
pension in 1986.
When Mr C complained to Phoenix about the sale in 1986 it decided that the increased fees 
on that plan meant that it could not justify the advice it had given to him. So it upheld his 
complaint about that sale and offered to pay him compensation for the additional charges 
hed paid as a result. And alongside that conclusion Phoenix also noted that in relation to his 
previous complaint it had said that it was unable to justify the change it had recommended to 
the investment approach on the Retirement Annuity Contract. Whilst that change hadnt 
resulted in Mr C losing any money, it now offered him an opportunity to revise his investment 
approach without charge.
Mr C didnt think Phoenixs offer of compensation sufficiently recompensed the additional 
charges he had paid. In particular he thought that making contributions to the new personal 
pension had meant hed paid higher charges on his retirement annuity contract, and that his 
contributions to that plan had been reduced. So he brought his complaint to this Service.
During our investigation of the complaint Phoenix identified that it had made an error in the 
calculation of the additional charges Mr C had paid. So it increased the offer he had been 
made. The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that 
the offer Phoenix had made was fair. He didnt agree that Mr C had also paid additional 
charges on his retirement annuity contract that should be refunded. So he didnt think 
Phoenix needed to do anything more than it had already offered.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Phoenix has accepted that it cannot justify the sale of the personal pension plan to Mr C in 
1986. So I dont need to decide here whether that advice was appropriate. Instead I need to 
think about what it would be reasonable to expect Phoenix to do, in order to put things right.
As I said earlier Phoenix has made Mr C an offer of compensation that is effectively equal to 
the additional charges he paid as a result of holding the personal pension. Ive looked at how 
Phoenix says it has calculated that compensation, and although the calculations are 
complex, and rightly need to be performed by an actuary, I havent seen anything that makes 
me think those calculations are incorrect.
But, as Mr C points out, those charges shouldnt form the end of my considerations of the 
fair compensation he is due. By taking out the personal pension he diverted some pension 
contributions that he would most likely have added to his retirement annuity contract. So 
I also need to think about whether increased contributions to that plan might have made a 
financial difference.
That is a complicated assessment, most notably because Phoenix has also accepted that it 
incorrectly advised Mr C to change the way those pension savings were invested. As I said 
earlier, that incorrect advice hasnt actually resulted in Mr C being worse off  his pension 
savings in the retirement annuity plan are actually slightly higher than they would have been 
if the investment approach hadnt been changed. But for the purposes of this decision  
looking to put Mr C back into the position he would have been if nothing had gone wrong  
I dont think it would be right to take that additional investment return into account.
So that means that the two pension plans that Mr C held would have been invested in the 
same way. So splitting the contributions across the two plans hasnt resulted in a lower rate 
of investment growth.
Ive also looked at the charges that Mr C paid on the retirement annuity contract, and 
whether they would have been lower if his contributions were higher. It is certainly true that a 
cap applied to charges on that plan. But that wouldnt have meant the contributions Mr C 
actually paid would have attracted a lower level of charges  the charges would only have 
been reduced on the contributions hed have made above that limit. And I understand that 
those savings have been taken into account in the analysis that Phoenixs actuary performed 
to determine the compensation that should be paid to Mr C.
There are also other issues that might have arisen from the new plan being taken. 
I understand that Mr C stopped contributing to the personal pension some years ago, but thinks that had the contributions been made to the retirement annuity contract instead its 
unlikely hed have changed them. I think that is too remote for me to consider here. As far as 
I understand there was nothing to stop Mr C increasing his contributions to the annuity plan 
when he stopped making them to the personal pension plan.
Mr C has also taken his benefits from the personal pension in the form of a cash lump sum 
and so has had to pay some additional income tax. I appreciate that he wanted to transfer 
those savings into his retirement annuity plan, but Phoenix told him that wasnt possible. 
That is a commercial decision for Phoenix to take and not something it would normally be 
appropriate for me to interfere with. But in saying that I havent seen anything that required 
Mr C to take his benefits in the form of a lump sum with the corresponding income tax 
implications. And for the avoidance of doubt, the fund switch in relation to the retirement 
annuity plan that Phoenix offered to Mr C in its final response letter didnt relate to 
transferring funds into that plan, but rather a change to the investment approach for the 
pension savings already there.
On balance I think that the offer Phoenix has made to Mr C represents fair compensation for 
the advice it gave him to open an additional personal pension in 1986. If he hasnt already 
been paid that compensation he should get in touch with Phoenix to request it to be paid. 
And since I dont think Phoenix needs to do anything further I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or require Phoenix Life Limited to 
do more than it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman