DRN-1247924
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI when she applied for a credit card in 
1996. Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs M didn't agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me so I can make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mrs M ticked a box on the credit card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. So, I think 
Lloyds made it clear that Mrs M did not have to take out the PPI, and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Lloyds did not recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it did not have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because Lloyds got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, including what shes said about having sick 
pay through her work. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI wouldve paid out 
for longer than her sick pay and wouldve paid out if shed been made redundant.My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman