DRN-2451267
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to refund the  
premium in relation to their single trip travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes 
includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr K and Mrs G took out a single trip, travel insurance policy with          
Great Lakes. The policy provided cover for a trip with intended departure and return dates of 
21 April 2020 and 28 April 2020 respectively. Mr K and Mrs G paid a premium of £186.27,  
which included medical premiums in relation to declared medical conditions.   
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr K and Mrs Gs intended destination. Mr K and Mrs Gs planned trip was 
cancelled by the trip provider. I understand that Mr K and Mrs G received a refund of the trip 
costs from the trip provider. 
In March 2020, Mrs G contacted Great Lakes and asked for a refund of the premium.    
Great Lakes didnt agree to refund the premium, but it has offered a pro rata credit voucher 
amounting to £33.35. It says thats for the portion of the cover thats unused. Great Lakes 
says that the credit voucher can be used towards the purchase of a single trip or annual 
policy, that its valid for 36 months and that it can be transferred to a relative or a friend. Mr K 
and Mrs G werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract 
of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in October 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that Great Lakes offer of a credit voucher was a fair and reasonable outcome in 
all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs G said that the investigator hadnt 
considered that the government cancelled their trip. She said that the circumstances which 
led to their complaint are unique and that this isnt a normal complaint. Mrs G feels that there 
were announcements and news reports which said that they wouldnt lose out and that the 
investigator hadnt taken that into account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period, Great Lakes isnt obliged to give a refund of 
the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional circumstances. Looking at 
how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask Great Lakes to consider     
Covid-19 to be exceptional circumstances. Thats because I dont think this type of 
situation is one which the discretion in the policy is designed to cover. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a credit 
voucher is fair. Thats because Mr K and Mrs G had the benefit of the policy from 
when they purchased the policy in October 2019 up to the cancellation date in    
March 2020, but Great Lakes risk ended when the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate that Mr K and Mrs G would prefer a cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. I think a credit voucher is a fair alternative to a cash refund in the 
circumstances of this case. Thats because Mr K and Mrs G entered into a contract 
with Great Lakes then, for reasons I quite understand, chose to cancel the policy. I 
note what Mrs G says but its not the case that the government cancelled their trip: 
the FCO gave advice which led to their trip provider cancelling the trip: Mr K and   
Mrs G cancelled their policy.The offer Great Lakes has made is more than its obliged to make, and it means that 
the risk it agreed to take on at the outset of Mr K and Mrs Gs policy is potentially 
moved to a future date, should Mr K and Mrs G take up the offer. I think that the offer 
of a pro rata credit voucher is fair. Ive noted that the credit voucher is valid for 36 
months, can be used for a single trip or annual policy and is transferrable to a friend 
or relative. 
In correspondence with Great Lakes, Mr K and Mrs G say that they dont know if 
theyll be fit and able to travel again, but Ive seen no evidence that they wont be 
able to travel in the future, so I dont think that I can fairly conclude that the credit 
voucher has no value to them. 
The value of the credit voucher has been calculated based on the unused cover of 
the 29 days from the date the policy was cancelled until the original end date of the 
trip, which I think is fair. Wed usually say that there was no risk to Great Lakes from 
the date the trip was cancelled, but Mr K and Mrs G havent been able to tell us when 
that was, so I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to calculate the relevant period 
from the date the policy was cancelled. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Great Lakes made an error in calculating the 
value of the credit voucher, as it proceeded on the basis that Mr K and Mrs G paid a 
premium of £219.62, but the validation certificate says that they paid £186.27. The 
error is in Mr K and Mrs Gs favour. I dont think it would be fair for Great Lakes to 
recalculate and reduce the value of the credit voucher.
In all the circumstances, there are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to give 
Mr K and Mrs G a cash refund and the credit voucher it has offered is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Gs complaint because the credit 
voucher Great Lakes Insurance SE has already offered is fair and reasonable.  
If Mr K and Mrs G wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman