DRN-4118767
The complaint
Mr B complains that First Response Finance Ltd (First Response ) didnt refund his deposit 
when it unwound his finance agreement on rejection of his car. He would like money owing  
refunded with interest, a refund of court fees and an apology
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both  parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate the difficult personal circumstances Mr B has shared with us and the fact 
a total deposit of £5490 is a significant sum to lose. There doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that Mr B should have got his deposit back. The issue for me to decide is if 
there is evidence this payment hasnt been made as Mr B says.
I have seen a letter First Response sent Mr B in June 2016 saying the dealership 
would return Mr Bs deposit when he collected his part exchanged car. First 
Response  asked Mr B to contact the dealer or itself to draw this matter to a close. 
The only other information I have seen is some correspondence with the dealership 
in 2016 which Mr B provided. I am unclear why, given the sum in question, Mr B 
didnt continue correspondence with the dealership over this. Or why it took him 
nearly six years to go back to First Response. I think its unlikely he couldnt have 
realised he hadnt got the money back, if that was the case. If so I would expect to 
have seen evidence of ongoing correspondence with First Response, but Mr B hasnt 
provided any such information
Mr B has told us we could evidence he didnt get his part exchange car back. He may 
well not have done so as its clear Mr B didnt want it back. And I understand this led 
to some delay as he  initially refused to  collect it. I think the dispute over the part 
exchange car however would have been a further reason to contact First Response 
sooner rather than nearly six years later. And not getting the car back doesnt prove 
Mr B didnt get his deposit back.
I appreciate the dealership is now  under a new ownership, so its been difficult to 
evidence details from the time in question. But even if , as Mr B says, the owners 
themselves havent changed, businesses dont have to keep records forever so its 
possible there still wouldnt have been any information to refer to.  
Mr B has provided us with bank statements which, I accept, dont show a sum of 
money equal to his deposit paid in. However, that doesnt conclusively show the 
deposit wasnt returned. It could, for example, have been paid into a different 
account.
Unfortunately, as I have no evidence to show the deposit wasnt returned to Mr B I 
cant reasonably ask First Response to refund this sum with interest along with other 
costs as Mr B would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman