DRN-2789064
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with MetLife Europe d.a.cs decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr D had a private medical insurance policy with MetLife. He had an accident in August 
2019 and again in January 2020 and so claimed on his policy. MetLife made a partial 
payment for the first accident, where Mr D fractured the middle, ring and little fingers on one 
hand. But it declined his second claim in January 2020. This claim was for hospital benefit as 
he had to stay in hospital from January  February 2020 for treatment following a fall. 
Mr D would like MetLife to pay both claims in full. Mr D also said hed broken two bones in 
his wrist in August 2019 and that hed not received a payment for that injury. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She said there was no medical evidence that 
showed hed broken his wrist. So, she didnt think MetLife should pay anything more on the 
first claim. She agreed that Mr D had hospitalisation benefit and recognised hed spent 
almost a month in hospital. However, she didnt think MetLife should pay his claim as Mr Ds 
alcohol dependency was a contributory factor to the injuries he sustained, and treatment he 
needed. 
MetLife said it would not pay any claim that was caused or associated with alcohol abuse. 
And that in these particular circumstances, it felt it fair to rely on this term to decline his 
claim.
Mr D accepted our investigators position about his alleged broken wrist, however, he 
wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint about the second claim. And so, its for me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
MetLifes terms say;
This policy does not cover any claim caused or resulting directly or indirectly in whole or in part by or 
from any of the following:
Alcoholism, the excessive consumption of alcohol over a prolonged period or periods, solvent abuse, 
or drug taking (unless taken as prescribed by a registered medical practitioner and not for the 
treatment of drug addiction)
Ive highlighted this term because I think its relevant in these particular circumstances. The medical 
reports say that Mr D received treatment for alcohol abuse during his hospital stay. Its noted that he 
regularly consumed high volumes of alcohol over a prolonged period of time and that the hospitals 
alcoholism team were involved in his treatment. Im aware he received treatment for other problems, 
but because the exclusion MetLife has referred is clear, in that it wont consider a claim caused or 
resulting, directly or indirectly from alcoholism, I think its declined Mr Ds claim fairly. 
Mr Ds explained that he used to be alcohol dependent, and has since recovered, and so he doesnt 
agree with MetLifes reasons for the declination. However, the hospital notes say differently. The 
notes say there were known alcohol problems when he was admitted and that some of the conditions 
he suffered were caused by, or affiliated with, excessive drinking. They also say that Mr D was 
advised of the importance to stop drinking alcohol. Its because of this Im more persuaded that 
alcohol was a factor that caused, or contributed, to Mr Ds admission to hospital in January 2020 and 
therefore MetLife has applied the term fairly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman