DRN-3201590
The complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited declined his claim and cancelled his caravan 
insurance policy following the theft of his caravan.
What happened
Mr S said he moved his caravan to a friends farm from its usual storage site in order to 
clean it. But it was stolen that night. Amtrust instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the 
claim. He recommended that Amtrust pay Mr S the caravans market value. But Amtrust 
declined the claim as it said the caravan was stored at a different location to that stated on 
the policy. It also cancelled the policy, but it didnt tell Mr S this. It offered Mr S £100 
compensation for this error and delays in the claim.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
unfair for Amtrust to decline the claim as she thought it wasnt being stored at the location it 
had been stolen from. She thought Amtrust should pay Mr S the market value for the 
caravan and his accessories, as set out in the assessors report. And she also thought it 
should pay Mr S £100 compensation for its delays and communication errors, as promised.
Amtrust replied that the policy didnt cover the theft as the caravan wasnt stored at the 
agreed location. It also said it wouldnt have agreed to offer cover at the temporary location 
due to security issues.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Amtrust on 18 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Amtrust said it declined the claim and cancelled the policy because Mr S moved his caravan 
from the storage address stated on the policy to an unacceptable location without its 
authorisation. 
Mr S variously said the caravan had been taken to a farm to have it cleaned, to have the 
tyres changed and the contents sorted prior to a trip. He said he intended to leave it there for 
no longer than two days. The loss adjusted established that the caravan had been locked. 
Photographs of the site showed that the farm didnt have a full perimeter fence. The thieves 
had stolen the caravan through open fields at the back. 
Our investigator thought that it was unfair for Amtrust to decline the claim as she thought the 
caravan wasnt being stored at the farm. But I disagreed. This was because I could see 
from the policy terms and conditions that the caravan is either in use, unattended, or its 
being stored. Looking at the policy definitions, In Use is defined as
When You or Your Immediate Family are using or visiting Your Caravan for holiday 
purposes or when the Caravan is attached to a towing vehicle. This includes a 24 hour 
period immediately prior to and returning from You or Your Immediate Family using or 
visiting Your Caravan for holiday purposes provided the Caravan is kept at Your Home 
during this 24 hour period. Please note the policy definition of Home excludes communal 
parking areas and public roads or highways.
Mr S said he intended to leave the caravan at the farm for two days. So I thought this didnt 
meet the definition of in use. And it follows that he hadnt moved away from the caravan 
whilst it was in use, so it wasnt unattended. 
Storage Address is defined as
Your Home or an address You have given Us and which We have accepted.
The storage location was stated in the policy documents. I could see that the Statement of 
Fact stated in bold that Mr S must notify Amtrust if the declared storage location changed. 
And I could see that the policy excluded,
Theft of or loss or damage to the Caravan while the Caravan is not In Use unless it is kept 
at Your Home or at a Storage Address You have written and told Us about and which We 
have accepted;
Mr S didnt write to Amtrust to tell it about the change. And Amtrust explained that it wouldnt 
have authorised storage at the farm as it didnt meet the policys security requirements, as 
established by the loss adjuster. I could see that the Statement of Fact set out the security 
requirements for farms. And Amtrusts underwriter stated that this farm would have been 
unacceptable to it as a storage location. 
So I thought that it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to decline the claim because Mr S 
had moved the caravan to a different storage location without its approval. This was a clearly 
stated exclusion under the policy terms and conditions. And I thought it was fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust to rely on it to decline the claim
Amtrust also cancelled the policy from the date the caravan was moved. I thought that was 
fair and reasonable as there was no longer an insurable asset to cover. Mr S said that 
Amtrust offered to refund the remainder of his premium. I thought that was fair as he hadnt 
made a claim and cover had ended. I couldnt see that Amtrust had done this. So I thought it 
should honour this offer. 
I could see that there were significant delays in the claim and Amtrust didnt tell Mr S it had 
cancelled his policy. Itd offered Mr S £100 compensation for this. And I thought that was fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or Amtrust, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require Amtrust Europe Limited to 
refund Mr S the remainder of his premium following the cancellation and to pay Mr S £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as it had 
already offered to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust said it had nothing further to add following my provisional decision. 
Mr S replied that he was disappointed by the change in outcome, and I can understand that. 
But my task is to provide an impartial decision about his complaint based on the available 
evidence. Mr S submitted emails hed sent to Amtrust, but I can assure him that they had 
already been added to his file and I did review them. 
Mr S said he didnt think he was storing the caravan at the farm. But, as Ive explained 
above, the caravan wasnt in use and so it was in storage, according to the policys terms 
and conditions. And Mr S hadnt notified Amtrust about the change in location. And, if he 
had, it wouldnt have approved it because of the security concerns. Mr S was also unhappy with the delays in the claim and the service he received. I agree with 
Mr S but, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Amtrusts offer of £100 compensation for 
this was fair and reasonable. 
Im satisfied that I considered these points raised by Mr S in coming to my provisional 
decision, and no new evidence has been provided for me to consider. So I can see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to refund Mr S the remainder of his premium following the 
cancellation and to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its level of service, as it has already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
intended to require Amtrust Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. as it has 
already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman