DRN-3490875
The complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim 
to an authorised push payment cryptocurrency investment scam. He says Barclays should 
reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties.
In summary, in early 2021, Mr N fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. Mr N was 
cold called by what he thought was a legitimate company. Unfortunately Mr N had in fact 
been duped by fraudsters. Mr N set up a cryptocurrency account in his name and over the 
course of approximately four weeks made seven transfers from his Barclays account to his 
cryptocurrency account and then from there, on to what he thought was a company that 
would invest for him. Later on, Mr N wasnt able to withdraw his funds and any profits and 
was then asked to pay additional money to obtain his funds. At this point Mr N uncovered 
that he had fallen victim to a scam. Mr N, over the seven transfers, sent funds totalling 
around £9,000.
Mr N reported the matter to Barclays. Ultimately Barclays didnt consider it was liable for the 
losses Mr N incurred.
Unhappy, Mr N brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
First, the Investigator explained to Mr N that as the funds were sent by bank transfer a 
chargeback couldnt be raised  as chargebacks are in relation to card payments  not 
bank transfers. 
Second, they also explained why the Contingent Reimbursement Model (often referred to as 
the CRM code) wasnt relevant in Mr Ns case as the CRM Code requires consumers to pay 
another person  which meant the transfers Mr N made to the account in his own name at 
the cryptocurrency exchange provider wasnt covered.
They then explained that banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that its 
customer authorises it to make. And in this case, they were satisfied Mr N had authorised 
the transfers as he had made the bank transfers from his Barclays account.
But they also explained that there are some situations where banks, taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice standards, shouldnt have taken their customers 
authorisation instruction at face value  or it should have looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding the transaction before making the payment. This is, among other things, to try 
and establish if the consumer is at risk of financial harm or has fallen victim to a scam. 
In this case, given the value of the transfers over the course of the approximate four weeks, 
the Investigator didnt think Barclays ought to have done more to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And they didnt consider Barclays ought to have 
had a cause for concern that Mr N was potentially at risk of financial harm or was falling 
victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned him about the 
transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as the cryptocurrency had been moved on from 
Mr Ns cryptocurrency account the Investigator considered there wasnt anything further that 
Barclays could do to recover the funds.
Mr N ultimately disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have been 
done by Barclays to prevent his losses. 
Our Investigator reviewed Mr Ns response, but it didnt change their opinion essentially for 
the same reasons they had provided initially. 
As Mr N disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr Ns losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Barclays actions, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr N was a victim of a sophisticated 
scam and has lost a significant sum which is now clearly having a significant impact on his 
life. But in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays should reimburse 
him. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Mr Ns benefit why the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the CRM Code) and the chargeback process 
arent applicable in his case and what the relevant law and regulations were at the time.Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud. But 
the CRM Code is explicit in that it only covers a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer between GBP-denominated, UK-domiciled 
accounts. 
And the CRM Code also sets out under DS1(2) (a) the scope of what the CRM Code covers 
in relation to authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And that is instances where: 
(i)The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
As the transfers Mr N made from his Barclays account to the cryptocurrency exchange 
provider were to an account in his own name, they arent covered by or within the scope of 
the CRM Code. And this is because Mr N wasnt paying another person. 
Why the Chargeback process isnt applicable
Mr N thought Barclays may have been able to carry out a chargeback. I appreciate Mr N 
wanted to explore every possibility in trying to get his funds back, but chargeback schemes 
offer protection to consumers for payments that are made by card. In this case, Mr N made 
bank transfers  and transfers arent eligible to be looked at under the chargeback process.
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Mr N made the bank transfers himself from his Barclays account. So it is the case that Mr N 
authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And under the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr N is responsible for 
them. That remains the case even though Mr N was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Barclays have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Mr N?
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr N when he made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. For each of the transfers Mr N made he transferred the 
required amount of funds in from another of his accounts. So there were always enough 
funds available for each of the transfers he made. 
Mr N initially made a transfer of £2,000 on 20 January 2021. I dont consider there is 
anything unusual or remarkable about the transfer or the amount that ought to have alerted 
Barclays to the possibility Mr N was being scammed or was at risk of financial harm. Banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a bank has to 
strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up 
or delaying its customers requests.
The next transfer Mr N made was for £3,500 on 27 January 2021. Again I dont think there 
was anything remarkable about the transfer that would have warranted intervention from 
Barclays. Mr N made this transfer around a week after the first transfer and Im mindful that it 
was going to the same account destination. Given the time between the two transfers, and 
that it was going to an account that Mr N had transferred to previously, I cant say Barclays 
acted unfairly in not intervening and questioning Mr N about the payment.
Mr N went on to make several smaller transfers of £10.00 and £75.00 on the 
1 February 2021 and £800.00 on 4 February 2021. And then, on 25 February 2021, Mr N 
made two further transfers of £2,100 and £500. For much of the same reasoning Ive given 
above, I dont think the transfers required any intervention or questioning from Barclays. I 
dont think the amounts, or the frequency of the transfers, were remarkable enough for 
Barclays to have a concern and step in. Also by this point it was an established destination 
account that Mr N was paying. 
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Barclays to be suspicious Mr N may be a victim 
of fraud when he made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to 
intervene and question him about the transfers. All things considered, I think the fact that 
Barclays didnt flag the transfers as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Recovery of the funds
Given Mr N sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in his own name  with his money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Barclays 
could do to help Mr N recover his funds. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mr Ns been the unfortunate victim of a sophisticated and 
cruel scam, I think Barclays decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because Barclays followed Mr Ns instructions to 
make the transfers and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. 
Unfortunately, given the funds Mr N transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and 
moved on, there wasnt anything further Barclays could do to help Mr N recover his funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman