DRN-1823966
The complaint
 Ms M has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably 
refused to pay her claim under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
 Ms M held a Prime Plus time limited cover policy for her dog since 9 June 2015. This meant 
that any condition claimed would only be covered for 365 days and thereafter cover for that 
condition would cease. Her dog developed congestive heart failure in March 2019, which 
required investigation, diagnosis and medical treatment. Very sadly her dog died in 
September 2019.
Ms M consequently made a claim to Red Sands in May 2019 for these costs amounting to 
£3,234.80 plus ongoing medication costs. 
Red Sands requested her dogs vet history to assess Ms Ms claim. It said in that vet history 
it showed that her dog had developed a heart murmur from 9 June 2016. Therefore in line 
with its terms and conditions it imposed a retrospective exclusion for any heart condition 
from this date. That meant her claim was excluded under her policy. 
Ms M complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So she brought her complaint 
to us. The investigator was of the view her complaint ought to be upheld. She didnt think 
Red Sands had correctly calculated the time from which Ms Ms dog had this condition for 
which Ms M could have claimed. She felt the time should only start running from the time 
there was any possibility of Ms M actually making a claim for the condition. The investigator 
calculated this to be from 14 July 2018. This would have meant Ms Ms claim wasnt 
excluded or outside the 365-day limit and ought to be paid in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions.
Red Sands disagreed so Ms Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Its clear the cover provided by Red Sands under this policy is limited by both time and by 
amount. Here Ms Ms policy provides cover for any condition, illness or accident for 365 
days, each condition being limited to £4,000 per year, with an overall annual policy limit of 
£10,000 for all conditions claimed.
Her policy says the following:
Vet Fees we will provide cover for; All reasonable costs for treatment of your pet 
by a vet due to accident, illness or disease up to the maximum benefit limit as 
specified in your schedule. (Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the day 
the condition is first noted by you or your vet, up to the amount specified in your 
policy limit.)
The policy details at various times that a condition is covered for 365 days from the time 
the condition was first noted by yourself or your vet. 
The vet history for Ms Ms dog shows that her vet discovered her dog had a heart murmur 
on 18 February 2016 when Ms M brought her dog to her vet because he was coughing. 
There was no treatment or investigations discussed for the heart murmur and her dogs 
cough appeared to be treated as a chest infection.
Ms Ms dog went back to the vet on 8 March 2016. This time the vet queried if her dog had 
a chest infection or something concerning his heart and theres no conclusion on the 
matter. But her dog was treated again for a chest infection. 
Ms Ms dog obviously sufficiently recovered as the next time Ms M brought her dog to the 
vet was on 10 May 2017. It was for his yearly check-up and booster vaccinations. The 
heart murmur was noted but its clear there was no advice for Ms M to investigate it or 
treat it. 
Over a year later, on 14 July 2018, Ms M takes her dog back to vet because of a cough. 
Whilst the vet noted her dogs heart sounded ok, he does make a recommendation for 
investigations or a referral to a specialist vet concerning her dogs heart. 
And then in April 2019, Ms Ms dog was referred and only then diagnosed with congestive 
heart failure from which he sadly died in September 2019. 
The cover provided in this policy is the cover for vet fees for a condition for a time limit of 
365 days. It follows therefore, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, as the 
investigator explained, that that cover should start when a customer can first reasonably 
make a claim on their policy. Otherwise, the likelihood of a customer having a worthless 
policy as the pet gets older is too high and consequently is also unfairly weighted in favour 
of the insurer. I dont consider that is fair or reasonable here. I agree the first point in time 
Ms M could have reasonably made a claim is for the investigations discussed in the vet 
appointment on 14 July 2018. Therefore I consider this is when the time limit of 365 days 
runs for her dogs heart issues.  
This is borne out by the subsequent evidence of Ms Ms treating vet. He confirms no heart 
murmur treatment was given to Ms Ms dog. And in a call with Red Sands on 16 July 2019 
Ms Ms vet said that despite the heart murmur, there was no signs of congestive heart 
failure. He also confirmed in 2016, the coughing was due to a chest infection instead of the 
heart murmur causing heart failure. This shows me it was clear at this time Ms M couldnt 
have made any claim for this heart murmur and therefore the cover limit of 365 days 
couldnt be applied at that time. 
I note the referral vet is of a different view but Im more persuaded by Ms Ms treating vet 
who actually treated and examined her dog at the relevant times, rather than the referral 
vet who merely saw Ms Ms dog in April 2019. The referral vet isnt tasked with the 
question as to when Ms M could have reasonably made a claim to start the 365-day cover 
limit for the heart murmur at all.
I think its important to note that here theres no issue of this being a pre-existing 
condition where no cover would be available. Ms Ms dog was properly covered by this 
policy for any condition he might suffer from since 9 June 2015, and therefore it is reasonable and moreover fair, to pay particular attention as to when Ms M could have 
claimed for the condition in order to ensure the 365-day cover limit is applied fairly. 
Given the evidence from Ms Ms vet I consider this should be from 14 July 2018 which 
makes her claim of May 2019 to be within the 365-day cover limit. Therefore I consider 
Read Sands should pay Ms Ms claim to include the ongoing medication costs subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and up to the date the policy was 
cancelled. If Ms M has already paid her vet which I believe she has, interest should be 
added from the date she paid her vet. 
I appreciate Ms M was also upset that Red Sands didnt appear to keep her updated about 
the progress of her claim. Red Sands has shown us it did send her letters which Ms M said 
she didnt receive. However since Red Sands can show it sent them to her, I cant hold it 
responsible for the failure of Ms M not receiving them. 
 
My final decision
  So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms Ms claim to include the ongoing medication costs subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, up to the date the policy was cancelled.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Ms M paid any sums to her vets to 
the date of its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Ms M for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman