DRN-4356429
The complaint
Ms F has made a complaint through a third-party professional representative. Ms Fs 
complaint is that Black Horse Limited (BH) entered into a car finance agreement she 
couldnt afford in 2018. Ms F also complains that BH paid commission to the broker and that 
commission payment wasnt disclosed to her.
Ms F has said to put her back in the position shed have been but for BHs actions/inactions, 
she wants a refund of the fees and charges paid on the car finance loan agreement with 
statutory interest of 8%. She also wants a refund of commission paid to the broker plus 
statutory interest.
What happened
BH considered Ms Fs complaint but initially didnt uphold the complaint. When Ms F referred 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, BH reviewed its original decision and 
accepted the car finance loan wasnt affordable for Ms F and it shouldnt have lent. So, it 
offered to refund her deposit, interest payments plus statutory interest at 8% per annum. It 
also offered to amend her credit file entry.
Our investigator thought BHs offer was fair in the circumstances. He explained to Ms F that 
the offer put her back in the position shed have been had the agreement never been 
entered into. He also explained the offer unwound the effect of the any commission payment 
received by the broker. Overall, our investigator thought the offer addressed the unfairness 
in both elements of Ms Fs complaint.
In response, Ms Fs representative said Ms F accepted the offer on the affordability element 
of Ms Fs complaint but has insisted the commission element needs to be considered further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen Ms F has fully repaid the car finance loan. BH has 
acknowledged it shouldnt have lent to her and the redress it has offered is in line with what 
the Financial Ombudsman Service will direct in circumstances similar to Ms Fs. BHs offer is 
to refund;
Interest Ms F paid on the loan plus 8% interest per annum.
Remove the loan entry from Ms Fs credit file.
I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ms Fs representatives has said the commission the broker received should also be 
investigated as a separate element of her complaint, but I dont think this is something that 
needs to be done in this case.
The effect of the redress offered by BH is that Ms F is put back in the position shed have 
been had she not entered into this car finance loan agreement. If that was the case, Ms F 
wouldnt have paid the £500 deposit, any interest on the loan and there wouldnt have been 
an entry about this loan on her credit file.
The sum total of these outweighs the commission amount that was paid to the broker in this 
case and in my opinion, the redress offered by BH fairly and reasonably puts Ms F back in 
the position shed have been but for the car finance loan. It also makes the commission 
payment of no effect in this case and as such Miss F isnt disadvantaged by any commission 
payment.
This redress offer unwinds the car finance agreement and the effects of the commission paid 
to the broker. On that basis, there isnt a reason to investigate the commission issue 
separately as Ms F has been offered a redress that puts her back in the position shed have 
been.
So I wont be asking BH to do anymore than it has already offered to do.
Putting things right
BH should pay Ms F compensation in line with its offer. It should;
Refund Ms Fs deposit of £500.
Refund the interest she paid on the loan.
Add 8% interest per annum on both the above payments from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement.
Remove the car finance loan entry from Ms Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse Limited to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Black Horse Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman