DRN-2939982
The complaint
Ms M complains about the level of service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
trying to transfer funds externally to another bank. 
What happened
Ms M holds a current account and a savings account with HSBC. In April 2020 she called 
HSBC to transfer £20,000 from her savings account to an ISA (Individual Savings Account) 
with another bank. HSBC agreed to process the transfer as requested, but said there would 
be a £17 charge for doing so. They said alternatively she could transfer £10,000 from her 
savings account, and £10,000 from her current account, to avoid the charge being applied. 
Ms M explained she has a brain injury and finds it difficult to take in information. She said 
she also suffers with short-term memory loss. She said shed made a simple request, but 
HSBC had made it stressful and confusing by offering to move her money around different 
accounts. She feels theyve not taken her condition into account. She said following this, she 
sent a cheque for £20,000 from the wrong account, and feels HSBC are responsible for 
charges she accrued. Shes also unhappy that shes continually asked to sign up to online 
banking, when she says shes made it clear this isnt an option for her due to her disability. 
So, unhappy with the service received, she complained.
HSBC considered Ms Ms complaint. They said they felt their advisor had showed a lot of 
empathy and tried to assist Ms M. But they acknowledged they hadnt updated their systems 
to reflect Ms Ms condition, which meant she had to tell staff about it each time she called. 
So, they paid her £50 in compensation to reflect this. They also noted Ms M sent a cheque 
following the call that put her into her overdraft at a cost of £0.78. So, they refunded this. 
But Ms M was unhappy with HSBCs response. She says she feels they were bullying her 
into accepting £50 to make the problem go away, as they paid this to her without any 
discussion. So, unhappy with HSBCs response, she brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Ms Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
felt the information provided during the call with Ms M was a lot to take in, but said the 
advisor spoke slowly and tried to make things clear for Ms M, and felt they acted in Ms Ms 
best interests. He accepted the service couldve been better had they updated Ms Ms 
account record to reflect her disability. But he was satisfied HSBC had now done this in 
response to her complaint, and that the £50 they paid was fair compensation in that regard. 
He also said that he could see HSBC had made attempts to contact Ms M before making 
that payment. So in the circumstances, he thought the amount, and the way in which it was 
paid, was fair. So he didnt ask HSBC to do anything further. 
But Ms M remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between HSBC and Ms M. And I can see from the outset that HSBC 
was trying to look at a way to save Ms M some money. Equally, it became clear following 
those suggestions, that Ms M was struggling to take in the information HSBC was providing, 
and that she simply wanted the money to leave her savings account directly and was happy 
to pay the associated £17 fee. But it seems the advisor picked up on Ms Ms concerns and 
tried to empathise with Ms M. And proceeded to process the transfer in the way Ms M 
wanted it to go through. 
While I appreciate the call was frustrating for Ms M, I think HSBC were acting with Ms Ms 
best interests in mind, and were soon to react once they realised the call was becoming 
stressful for her. I think they way in which HSBC handled the matter was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ms M says she made it clear on several occasions that she struggles taking in lots of 
information, and that she doesnt like to be continually asked about internet banking. So I 
can see why this wouldve been frustrating for her, given shed put HSBC on notice of this 
prior to the call. I think had HSBC updated their systems earlier, its less likely she wouldve 
been continually asked about online banking, and the above call may have been more 
straight forward for Ms M. 
However, HSBC have recognised their failings and paid Ms M £50 by way of an apology. 
Theyve also provided our service with system notes that show that they have update Ms Ms 
record to prevent further re-occurrences. So, on the whole, I think this is a reasonable 
resolution to the issues shes raised. 
Ms M says that she felt bullied into accepting the £50, as it was sent to her with no up-front 
discussion. While I can see HSBC did send the payment to Ms M prior to speaking with her, 
I can see that an attempt to call her was made before the money was sent. But it seems they 
were unable to reach Ms M or leave a voicemail. So following this, they chose to process the 
payment and write to Ms M regarding her complaint. I think this was reasonable. 
Following the call regarding the transfer. Ms M also sent a cheque for a further £20,000 from 
her HSBC account to fund her ISA. But she sent this from her current account, when the 
money should have been sent from her savings account. As a result, her account was 
overdrawn for a day, and she was charged £0.78 in debit interest. As Ms M sent a cheque 
for this amount, I dont think HSBC are responsible for the money leaving the account the 
cheque was issued from. But I can see HSBC agreed as a gesture of good will to recredit 
that interest to Ms Ms account, in addition to the compensation they paid her. I think this is 
fair in the circumstances. 
In summary, I appreciate Ms M found the call in question difficult, and I think more couldve 
been done by HSBC to update their records. Had they done so, I think its likely the call may 
have been more straight forward for Ms M. But equally, I think HSBC have taken adequate 
steps to put things right, and have paid fair compensation to Ms M to recognise their failings. 
So, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Ms M, I dont think HSBC 
needs to do anything further. And for the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding Ms Ms 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman