DRN-3627931
The complaint
Mr S complains that CMC Markets UK Plc closed his positions before he had a chance to 
fund his account. Hed like CMC Markets to reinstate a position he held in cryptocurrency.
What happened
Mr S has an account with CMC Markets in which he makes Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
trades. He held two open positions, one of which was on cryptocurrency. Mr S said hed 
heard that bitcoin had gone down on 4 December 2021 and wanted to ensure his positions 
stayed open by adding more funds. He explained CMC Markets platform was closed for 
maintenance over the weekend of 4 and 5 December 2021 and so he logged on at 2:30am 
on 6 December to add funds, however he saw his positions had already been closed.
Mr S called CMC Markets and explained that he couldnt fund his account due to the system 
maintenance and asked it to reinstate his position on cryptocurrency as opening a new 
position on cryptocurrency CFDs was restricted. CMC Markets explained it couldnt reverse 
the closure of the trades, especially since it was now prohibited by the regulator to execute 
trades on cryptocurrency derivatives for retail clients  such as Mr S.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He felt that reinstating a trade 
wouldnt be outside of the current regulations, and he felt this should be done as he wasnt 
able to access the platform prior to his position being closed.
Our Investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She explained that CMC 
Markets wasnt a 24/7 platform and trading hours for CFDs were made accessible to Mr S. 
She said that Mr S had logged on to his account on 5 December 2021 before his positions 
were closed and couldve funded his account. The Investigator felt CMC Markets hadnt 
acted unfairly in closing Mr Ss positions, so there was no reason to ask it to reinstate them. 
Our Investigator made reference to the gesture of goodwill CMC Markets offered Mr S 
directly, but explained that she wouldnt be asking it to pay compensation as it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said he was aware CMC 
Markets could close the positions, but believes that it can reinstate his position on 
cryptocurrency without it being classed as a new trade which would therefore be permitted 
under the regulations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Its 
worth noting that Mr S has accepted his margin fell below the 50% callout level and the 
positions were closed correctly. So, it follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
tell CMC Markets to do anything differently here. However, for clarity, Ill explain why this is.
Firstly, CMC Markets doesnt offer trading seven days a week and its clear this is the case. 
Its Order Execution Policy explains it will only carry out trades during Trading Hours. These 
are defined in the terms of business and are accessible on the CMC Markets website. I can 
see that for Mr Ss cryptocurrency CFD the trading hours for the time Mr S is complaining 
about were 23:00 to 0:00 on Sunday 5 December 2021 and then 24 hours Monday to 
Thursday. Mr Ss positions were closed at 23:00 Sunday 5 December when the trading 
hours commenced.
Mr S has said that the website was down for maintenance so he couldnt fund his account 
when hed found out on Saturday 4 December that cryptocurrency was decreasing in value. 
Its clear that CMC Markets doesnt offer trading for CFDs on a Saturday, and it has said it 
routinely does maintenance on those days. In any event, Mr S was able to log into his 
account on Sunday 5 December prior to the trading hours and wouldve been able to fund 
his account. CMC Markets provided records to show that Mr S logged in twice prior to his 
positions being closed on that day and didnt fund his accounts. Its not clear why he didnt 
do this given he says he was intending to do so.
Ive seen evidence which shows Mr Ss margin was below the 50% close out level at 23:00 
on Sunday 5 December 2021, which is when trading hours for his positions started. In line 
with regulations, and the terms of Mr Ss account, CMC Markets closed Mr Ss positions. It 
hasnt done anything wrong in doing this.
I appreciate Mr S was keen to keep his position on cryptocurrency open, particularly as 
regulations no longer allow him to open a new one, but as CMC Markets hasnt done 
anything wrong in closing his positions, I wont be asking it to reinstate them. I appreciate 
Mr S has explained his interpretation of the regulations around executing new CFDs on 
cryptocurrency but the interpretation is irrelevant here  as CMC Markets didnt make an 
error in closing his positions so it doesnt need to do anything further.
I can see that CMC Markets offered Mr S £103.70 as a gesture of goodwill  which 
represents the difference had his positions been closed on Saturday 4 December - outside 
of its trading hours. As this is something that wouldnt have happened on CMC Markets 
platform, and I dont think its done anything wrong, I wont be asking it to pay any 
compensation. CMC Markets has said its gesture of goodwill remains open to Mr S if he 
wishes to accept. Hed have to contact CMC Markets directly about that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman