DRN-2830038
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she received poor service from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) and that her vehicle was unsafe when it was returned to her after accident repairs. 
She also complains that the courtesy car provided was unsuitable for her needs. 
What happened
Mrs Ls car was provided under a Motability scheme and insured through RSA. 
In August 2019 Mrs Ls husband was involved in an accident in her vehicle. RSA arranged 
for it to be repaired. The repairs were carried out by RSAs authorised repairer. Mrs L got her 
vehicle back in October 2019. But she wasnt happy with its condition.
Mrs L said there was a burning smell coming from the vehicle, damage on the sill and 
damage to the interior. After several inspections by a number of different organisations the 
problems hadnt been resolved to Mrs Ls satisfaction. RSAs engineer authorised a review 
of the repair work. He advised that the vehicle should go to the dealer to have the burning 
smell investigated. The dealer would also check if the electrical issues were accident related.  
Mrs L agreed not to have the internal damage repaired as her vehicles lease was about to 
end. The dealer checked and found no issues with the speedometer. But Mrs L still thought 
there were electrical issues with the vehicle which she believed were accident related. So 
RSA agreed to have an independent inspection of the vehicle to check if the damaged wiring 
thatd been noted was related to the accident or not. 
The garage working on Mrs Ls vehicle went into administration. So the vehicle had to be 
taken to another garage for the independent inspection. This was completed on 24 
September 2020. The inspection hadnt been able to find a burning smell. It also noted no 
damage to the electrical items Mrs L had reported. But it did confirm that some further 
accident related repairs were needed. 
The inspection also noted that there was other damage to the vehicle not related to the 
original accident. So RSA decided to follow the inspection recommendations and declared 
the vehicle a total loss.
Mrs L complained to RSA about the service shed received. It said itd done everything it 
could to find a suitable courtesy car for Mrs L while her vehicle was at the garage. But as 
some work was outstanding from the reported incident, RSA upheld her complaint and 
offered her compensation of £500 for the level of inconvenience shed been put through.
Unhappy with its response, Mrs L brought her complaint to this service. She wanted RSA to 
refund the lease charges shed paid since the accident. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and felt that RSA had acted fairly, given their offer of £500 compensation. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said her vehicle had no issues before the accident. She said that her 
main concern was that the vehicle had been returned to her when it hadnt been fixed 
properly. She felt it was unsafe. She was less concerned about the time itd taken for the 
vehicle to be written off. 
As no agreement could be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its clearly been frustrating and worrying for Mrs L that her vehicle has had problems after 
coming back from repair. RSA has acknowledged that the original repair work wasnt perfect. 
Its offered £500 for the inconvenience that caused. But Mrs L doesnt think thats enough 
under the circumstances. 
She feels that RSA should refund her the cost of the lease during the time she was without 
her vehicle. RSA doesnt agree. It says that she had the use of a courtesy car during the 
time her own vehicle was in for repair/diagnostics. But Mrs L says the courtesy car she was 
provided with didnt meet her needs.
So I need to decide whats fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint. Ill 
cover the different parts of the complaint separately, starting with the repair work. 
Repair work 
From what Ive seen, RSA took Mrs Ls problems seriously and tried to get them fixed. When 
both the dealer and another organisation hadnt been able find the source of the burning 
smell Mrs L had noted, it arranged an independent inspection of the vehicle. 
I acknowledge that Mrs L feels that RSA didnt take reasonable steps to resolve her 
problems. She thinks RSA should've analysed the electrics to see what was wrong with the 
vehicle. But I note that in the independent inspection report the inspector said: I could not 
see any of the damage to the electrical items the owner refers to. So Im satisfied that the 
when the electrics were checked no problems could be identified.
That inspection found a number of issues that the inspector didnt think were related to the 
original accident. He couldnt be certain which issues were accident related and which 
werent. He also couldnt identify a burning smell or electrical issues. Given all of the issues 
with the vehicle, he recommended that it was written off. Mrs L got a new lease agreement 
at this point.
I can see that it took a long time to decide that the vehicle should be written off. I understand 
why Mrs L was unhappy with how long itd taken. But I can see why it took as long as it did. 
And I cant blame RSA for this. 
Looking at Mrs Ls main concern  that the vehicle was unsafe when it was returned to her  
Ive not seen any evidence of this. So Im not persuaded that RSA did anything wrong in the 
way it handled Mrs Ls issues after the initial accident repairs were carried out. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything more about this aspect of the complaint. 
Ill now consider the courtesy car that was provided.
Courtesy carMrs L says that the replacement vehicle she was provided with wasnt suitable for her needs. 
But RSA said that her policy entitled her to a standard five-door vehicle. It said that Mrs L 
didnt accept the vehicle it provided. But that it couldnt provide a vehicle she would be 
satisfied with. 
RSA said: every effort was made to supply you with a suitable hire vehicle in accordance 
with the terms of the Policy. It also said: We do not offer a like for like service in terms of 
vehicle provision. 
I appreciate it mustve been very difficult for Mrs L to manage without a replacement vehicle 
that fully met her needs. But I can see that RSA took reasonable steps to try to find a 
suitable replacement. But unfortunately its supplier didnt have a vehicle large enough. RSA 
tried other methods of getting a more suitable vehicle but werent successful. But the vehicle 
it provided did meet the policy terms. And RSA did everything it could to get a more suitable 
vehicle for Mrs L. So Im not persuaded that it did anything wrong.
Compensation offered
Looking at the complaint as a whole, RSA offered Mrs L £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience shed been put through. 
But Mrs L would like RSA to refund the lease fees shes paid for her vehicle since the 
accident. She feels she shouldnt have to pay for something shes not been able to use. But 
she was provided with a courtesy car while her vehicle was being repaired or investigated. 
So always had the use of a replacement vehicle. 
I agree that Mrs L has been inconvenienced by having further repairs on her car. But 
courtesy cars meeting the policy terms have been provided throughout. Although Mrs L was 
unhappy with the replacement vehicles she was given, I can see that RSA took reasonable 
steps to meet her needs. 
So, although I appreciate this will be disappointing, I wont be asking RSA to do anything 
more than its already offered to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman