DRN-2743272
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to refund their premium 
in relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference 
to its agents. 
What happened
On 13 February 2020, Ms M and Mr S took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy 
with Great Lakes. The policy started on 1 March 2020 and was due to end on 28 February 
2021. The policy provided cover for up to a total of 183 days of travel with a maximum of 50 
days in one trip for Mr S and 35 days in one trip for Ms M. Ms M and Mr S paid a total 
premium of £327.65, which included a medical premium in relation to Mr S declared medical 
condition.     
Ms M and Mr S say that they were due to travel in May 2020. On 17 March 2020, the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
Their trip planned for May 2020 was cancelled. The travel provider refunded the trip costs 
and the airline refunded the flight costs.  
In May 2020, Mr S contacted Great Lakes and asked it to cancel the policy and provide a 
refund of the premium. Great Lakes didnt agree to refund the premium, but it has offered a  
pro rata credit  - amounting to £260.32 - for one of the following options: 
a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at current market rates;
a 12 month, deferred annual policy, at current market rates, so cover could start  
within 12 months of purchasing the policy;
a  UK only, annual, multi trip policy - the destination area may be upgraded later, 
subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes said initially that the first two options were available until 30 June 2020. It has 
since said that the first two options remain available but may be withdrawn at any time.     
Ms M and Mr S werent happy with Great Lakes offer and pursued their complaint. They say 
that theyve received refunds from the trip provider and airline and that a relative who was 
also on their trip received a refund from his insurer. They want a refund of their premium.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on                    
1 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks before it was cancelled.  
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that Great Lakes offer of a pro rata credit for one of the three options it offered 
was a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M and Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
They havent received a voucher.
The offer can only be deferred by 12 months, which isnt of any use to them.
The policy was in force from 1 March 2020 and whilst they could have travelled until 
15 May 2020, they didnt do so and from 23 March 2020 the lockdown was in place.
They have been loyal customers since 2015.
They have received renewal correspondence. 
They want a refund of £259.43, which takes into account that the policy was in force 
from 1 March 2020 to 15 May 2020. 
Covid-19 has irreversibly changed their way of life and they will no longer be able to 
consider foreign travel.
They wont be able to use any form of voucher. 
Their travel provider, airline and another insurer have provided refunds.
Great Lakes refusal to provide a refund compounds their disappointment. 
They are not suggesting Great Lakes has done anything wrong but as Covid-19 is 
unprecedented they expected a more flexible approach for loyal customers. 
Ms M and Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel this policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period, no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after the cooling off period  as it was here - Great Lakes isnt obliged 
to give a refund of the premium but has a discretion to do so in exceptional 
circumstances. Looking at how the policy is worded, I dont think its fair to ask    
Great Lakes to consider exercising its discretion in this case. Thats because I dont 
think this type of situation is one which the discretion in the policy terms is designed 
to cover  it specifically mentions bereavement or a change in its willingness to cover 
medical conditions and thats not what happened here. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro rata 
credit towards one of the three options Ive set out above is fair. Thats because      
Ms M and Mr S had the benefit of the policy up to the cancellation date, but Great 
Lakes risk ended when the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate that Ms M and Mr S would prefer a cash refund, but Great Lakes isnt 
obliged to offer that. I think the pro rata credit Great Lakes has offered is a fair 
alternative to a cash refund in the circumstances of this case because                     
Ms M and Mr S entered into an annual contract with Great Lakes then, for reasons I 
quite understand, wish to cancel the policy. The offer Great Lakes has made is more 
than its obliged to make, and it means that the risk it agreed to take on at the outset 
of Ms M and Mr S policy is potentially moved to a future date, should Ms M and Mr S 
take up the offer. I think that the offer of a pro rata credit is fair. 
 
I appreciate that future travel plans are uncertain for everyone. Ms M and Mr S say 
that they dont plan foreign travel again. The pro rata credit can also be used towards 
the purchase of a UK only, annual, multi trip policy.
Ms M and Mr S say that they havent received a voucher. They may not have 
received a physical voucher but its clear that Great Lakes has made the offer Ive 
referred to above and that its open to Ms M and Mr S, so I dont think that the 
absence of a physical voucher is a barrier here. 
Ms M and Mr S have referred to refunds given by the trip provider, the airline and the 
insurer of another family member who also planned to go on the trip. Other providers 
and insurers have varied approaches but Im looking whether Great Lakes acted 
within the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably here. The 
relationship between Great Lakes and Ms M and Mr S is determined by the terms 
and conditions of the policy in the first instance. 
In all the circumstances and bearing in mind that Great Lakes isnt obliged to offer a 
refund in this case, there are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to give Ms M 
and Mr S a cash refund.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Ms M and Mr S complaint. 
If Ms M and Mr S wish to take up Great Lakes offer, they should contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman