DRN-3246432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited have turned down their claim 
under their home insurance policy for damage to their wall. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had previously claimed for damage to a section of wall at the end of their 
garden. Ageas turned down their claim originally, but agreed to settle it after Mr and Mrs M 
complained to us. Mr and Mrs M subsequently claimed for damage to another section of 
wall, also at the end of their garden. Theyve explained this section was built for them in 
2011 and they only realised it was damaged after the other section of wall had been 
repaired. The wall has moved and cracked. The builder who rebuilt the other section of wall 
has said that after hed done this, the section of wall concerned was successfully retaining 
the soil and it put more pressure on the adjoining section, causing it to crack. 
Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damaged section of wall. Having got his report, 
they turned the claim down on the basis the damage hadnt been caused by a one-off 
insured event and had happened gradually. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to us. Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided and 
concluded that Ageas were entitled to turn Mr and Mrs Ms claim down for two of the reasons 
theyd given. 
Mr and Mrs M dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Ageas were entitled to turn Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover for damage caused to the buildings at their home, 
including garden walls, by any of the insured events listed. There is an option to have 
additional cover for damage caused to the buildings by accidental damage, but Mr and Mrs 
M dont have this extension under their policy. I understand the explanation given by Mr and 
Mrs Ms builder as to the cause of the damage. This ties in with what Ageass loss adjuster 
said. That is, that the wall failed due to the pressure of the soil behind it, which was made 
worse because the soil got very wet in the period before the damage to the wall became 
evident. And, I have no doubt the rebuilding of the adjacent section of wall made the 
pressure of the soil even more severe. But pressure of soil causing damage over a period of 
time is not a one-off insured event covered by Mr and Mrs Ms policy. It is something that 
happened gradually. 
I note there is also a general exclusion in the policy, just to make it clear that damage that 
happens gradually isnt covered. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M have linked it to the damage to 
the other section of wall that was rebuilt, but the damage did not occur at the same time. So, 
I dont think it was caused by the insured event that damaged the other section, i.e. a flood. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Ageas were entitled to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. For me, 
the problem they have with the wall is, what Id describe, as a general maintenance issue, as 
opposed to damaged caused by a one-off insured event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman