DRN-3813095
The complaint
Miss R has complained about her home insurer Highway Insurance Company Limited 
regarding a claim she made when she found water damage at her home.
What happened
Miss R noticed that the carpet at her home was wet in July 2021. Highway sent out a leak 
detection team. It was felt the leak was coming through failed grout and sealant in the 
shower. But Highway accepted the claim and began drying the property. Miss R wasnt 
happy with how that progressed and made a complaint. That complaint was brought to our 
service and was considered by a colleague. Part of Highways response to that complaint 
was to appoint a loss adjuster for the remainder of the claim. Highways response to that first 
complaint, including assurance that the loss adjuster would manage the claim from that point 
forwards, including reviewing Miss Rs living conditions and any need for her to move out of 
her home, was dated 17 September 2021.
In September 2021, the house was still being dried  the drying equipment in place hadnt 
been working. The leak detection company were re-appointed and they still found no leak. 
Miss R appointed her own contractor and they found a leak on a supply pipe. The leak was 
fixed and the house was dry by mid-November 2021. Miss R was also in contact with her 
water authority. The water authority having reviewed Miss Rs meter readings, accepted that 
there had been a leak. The loss adjuster wouldnt agree to Miss R moving out of her home 
because she still had a functioning kitchen and bathroom. 
Miss R complained to Highway  she felt the leak should have been found before and that 
the previous attempts to dry the property had been futile, causing her upset and disruption 
for no good purpose. She said the house was damp and mouldy and making her ill. Highway 
accepted that a leak had now been found. But not that it had been present and missed 
before. Miss R also told Highway she was unhappy with the loss adjuster. She said he had 
been rude and unprofessional. Highway accepted that there had been some poor 
communication from its loss adjuster. In a final response dated 16 December 2021, it offered 
£200 compensation. Miss R made a further complaint to our service.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded that a leak had been ongoing in July 2021, which 
Highways detection company had missed. He didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R felt that 
part of her concerns, about the loss adjuster, had been overlooked. And she didnt accept 
our Investigators assessment that there had likely not been a leak which had been missed. 
Her complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans review. 
I felt Highway should pay Miss S £500 compensation. But I wasnt persuaded it was most 
likely that a leak had been in progress in July and September 2021, which Highways 
detection company negligently failed to find. My provisional findings were:
Ill explain at the start that I cant look at how the claim was handled between July and 
September 2021. That is because that has already been the subject of a previous complaint. 
But I can review the key facts as they were known at that time to see if I think anything 
different should have happened.
Ill also explain here that I think its by no means clear that there was a leak on-going, on the 
supply pipe to the ensuite toilet, in July 2021. Certainly the water authority has accepted that 
this was the case. And there is definitely an increase of usage between 4 March 2020 and 
10 March 2021, compared to the year before. But there is nowhere near as much usage 
between 11 March and 8 October 2021  the readings show (when averaged out) that for 
that seven-month period, less was being used each month than each month the year before. 
I know the ensuite wasnt in use after July 2021, but Miss R still had use of the main 
bathroom. So I dont think that would have affected her water usage that much  such that 
her lower usage masked the extra water wasted by an on-going leak. I cant account for the 
readings showing what they do  but that means I also cant be satisfied that there was 
mostly likely a leak in play in July 2021 which Highways detection company failed to 
diagnose.
Further to that I note that Highways detection company did carry out checks and tests at 
each visit. These were documented in its report, accompanied by photos to evidence what 
was done and found. They show thermal imaging stills which dont seem to show any leak, 
and also photos of the screen of the acoustic testing machinery, which also dont seem to be 
flagging any issue for concern. I note that it was another month after the second round of 
testing when Miss Rs detection company ran their tests which resulted in it reporting three 
leaks on the supply pipe. I also bear in mind that Highways detection company has shared 
its view on the materials surrounding the area of one of the leaks (the rest further along the 
pipe werent uncovered and the pipe was by-passed). The company said the area didnt look 
wet enough to account for a long-term leak. I further bear in mind that the tests completed by 
Highways detection company showed pooling of water under the shower and that the home 
was significantly water damaged, necessitating the removal of low-level plaster in three 
rooms. So whilst I understand Miss Rs concern, the available evidence doesnt satisfy me 
that Highway most likely failed her in the early months of this claim by mis-diagnosing the 
cause of the damage and missing an on-going leak. 
I think Highway did fail Miss R after this though. By then, after its final response was issued 
in September 2021, Highway knew that Miss Rs home was significantly damaged, had been 
stripped out and required still more drying. Highway also knew Miss Rs health was being 
affected and that shed taken to sleeping in the kitchen, it being one of the only rooms not 
affected by the damp still present in the house. Miss R has said the loss adjuster wouldnt 
agree to her moving out of the home because she still had a working kitchen and bathroom. 
But he did give her one nights stay in a hotel. Highway has said that it paid Miss R to stay in 
a hotel for five nights. 
Highway hasnt shown me that it paid Miss R to stay in a hotel for five nights during the 
periods September 2021 to 16 December 2021. But, in any event, I dont think that 
sufficiently makes up for the upset and discomfort she experienced living in her home, in the 
condition that it was in, between September and 16 December 2021. It is fair to say that it is 
only usually when a home loses its basic functions such as cooking, bathing and, 
sometimes, heating facilities that insurers view a property as uninhabitable, meaning theyll 
take action to move their policyholder into alternative accommodation. But, given the report 
of Miss Rs health (shes asthmatic), a damp and mouldy property, an on-going extensive 
drying regime and Miss R having had to sleep in her kitchen, I think Highway should have 
taken a pragmatic approach and looked to re-house Miss R, at least for the remainder of the 
drying period. Which I understand completed around mid-November 2021. So Ill take that 
into account when considering compensation.I know Miss R has also complained about the conduct of the loss adjuster. I understand that 
Highway accepts that he could have communicated better. But I think Miss Rs concern goes 
beyond that  she thinks he was rude to her and unprofessional. I havent seen anything 
though that makes me think that is the case. I know there was a particular exchange of 
emails where Miss R felt the adjuster had dismissed her concerns unfairly as he hadnt paid 
attention to what shed said. Ive seen an internal response from the adjuster about that to 
Highway. I understand that the adjuster had simply been mistaken whilst trying to answer 
emails whilst working out of the office. The adjuster should have taken more care when 
responding to Miss R, but I dont think that his conduct amounts to rudeness or a lack of 
professionalism. There were other occasions though where Miss R had to chase for replies 
and that was clearly frustrating for her when her claim had been ongoing for several months, 
with an extended drying programme having been necessary. Ill bear that in mind when 
considering compensation. 
Overall I think Highway did fail Miss R. As I said above, I think it should have looked to move 
her out of her home in September 2021, at least until the drying programme was completed. 
And I think the loss adjuster should have taken more care when responding to her, as well 
as to do so in a timely manner. I think for the distress and inconvenience Miss R was caused 
during September 2021 to 16 December 2021, Highway should pay her £500 
compensation. 
Miss R said she accepted my decision and had nothing further to add. Highway also said it 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R has accepted my decision, and neither party has made any additional comments, 
there is nothing more for me to review or comment on. Other than to confirm that my 
provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Highway to pay Miss R £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman