DRN-3744409
The complaint
Mr C complains that Facet Investment Management Ltd changed the way his pension was 
invested, meaning he was exposed to a higher level of risk than was suitable for his 
circumstances.
What happened
Mr C has been a client of Facet since 2010. His wife has a similar relationship, and receives 
the same services from the firm. Mr Cs wife has also made a complaint about the way Facet 
managed her pension investments that I am dealing with separately. Given that the advice 
they received was the same, I make no apologies for the similarity in my two decisions.
When Mr C was initially advised by Facet he held pension savings in two pension plans that 
were administered by separate providers. Facet provided Mr C with a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) service across his pension savings. In November 2015 Facet advised 
Mr C that he should consolidate his pension savings into a new self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). Mr C accepted that advice, and hasnt made any complaint about the 
recommendation he received. At that time the information given to Mr C indicated that he 
would pay a platform charge of up to 0.35% of his invested funds, average fund charges of 
0.49%, and an advice charge to Facet of 0.94%.
In November 2016, Facet wrote to Mr C explaining that it had launched its own funds, and 
that it proposed his pension investments would be transferred to these. The letter stated 
that, very little will change other than access to institutional, rather than retail, class 
investments and the mechanics in which we update our investment models. It stated that in 
future Facet wouldnt be charging its DFM fee for any holdings within the funds as the fund 
itself would pay those charges. Facet told Mr C that the change would be more cost efficient 
in terms of overall charges, with better potential returns and easier access to performance 
statistics and comparisons. It stated that if Mr C did not wish the fund to be moved that he 
should make contact with the firm. This letter did not outline the cost of the proposed new 
investment nor give an indication of the fund Mr C would be invested in or the types of 
holdings within the fund.
Mr Cs pension investments were transferred into what are now called the EF Facet 
Cautious Discretionary Portfolio Fund and the EF Facet Balanced Discretionary Portfolio 
Fund.
In October 2019, an investment held in each of the portfolios was suspended and ultimately 
defaulted, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of Mr Cs funds. Mr C complained 
to Facet about the level of risk associated with the recommendation. Facet told Mr C that the 
investments into which it had placed his pension savings were in line with the level of risk he 
had always been willing to take and that he had always been invested under a discretionary 
mandate. Unhappy with that response, Mr C referred his complaint to us.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Facet 
didnt hold Mr Cs authority to make investment decisions on his SIPP via its DFM service. 
And he thought that the investments held within the chosen funds were unsuitable for the 
risk profile that applied to Mr C. Later the investigator also noted that the charges Mr C 
needed to pay following the transfer were much higher than he had been paying before. So 
he didnt think Facet had treated Mr C fairly and asked the firm to pay Mr C some 
compensation.
Facet didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Facet. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Our investigator looked at whether Facet held the appropriate authority from Mr C to provide 
its DFM service on his SIPP. I share the investigators view that it appears the required 
authority is missing. But I think it was clear to Mr C that this was the service that Facet was 
offering to him and he was content to both receive it, and pay the appropriate charges. 
I accept Facets conclusion that the missing paperwork was merely an administrative 
oversight. And on balance I think that, had Facet asked Mr C to complete the normal 
authority documents for its DFM service in relation to his SIPP, he would have done so. 
I dont therefore intend to make any further findings in relation to that part of the complaint.
I am not satisfied that Facet made Mr C sufficiently aware of the changes that were made to 
his SIPP investments in November 2016. The letter he was sent informing him about the 
launch of the new funds failed to outline the impact of the changes either from a risk or 
charges perspective. I think that both those matters, had they been more clearly explained, 
would have led Mr C to make a different decision. But at that time, Mr C appears to have 
relied on the trust he had developed from his past relationship with the firm to accept Facets 
recommendation, and the change of his investments via its DFM service.
Prior to the change, Mr Cs SIPP monies had been held in mainstream regulated 
investments. The new funds, in part, made use of investments of a non-standard nature, 
including those that might have less liquidity than would be appropriate for someone in 
Mr Cs position  a consumer who was already making use of his pension savings to support 
his day to day living costs. Whilst it is true that there is nothing preventing a DFM portfolio or 
fund using investments such as these, I think Mr Cs circumstances suggest they should only form a very small part of the portfolio due to the level of risk involved, particularly as they 
also included overseas investments and therefore included an element of currency risk. 
Generally the FCA would consider that unregulated or high-risk investments, should only 
form extremely small proportions of a clients investments. I agree with this statement. And 
given that Mr C was categorised as a cautious to moderate investor I dont think the levels of 
the investments of this nature found within the Facet funds would reasonably be thought 
appropriate for him particularly in view of the liquidity risks and the fact he was already 
making use of his retirement savings.
In the letter Facet sent to Mr C about the change in investment approach in November 2016, 
it stated that one of the advantages to Mr C would be lower charges, although it did not 
provide an indication of what the investment charges would be, or how they compared to the 
existing funds.
The fund fact sheets, from December 2016, for what are now called the EF Facet Cautious 
Discretionary Portfolio Fund and the EF Facet Balanced Discretionary Portfolio Fund that 
have been provided to us show the Total Expense Ratios (TER) to be 2.05% and 2.19% 
respectively. This is noted to include a 0.75% Annual Management Charge (AMC), that 
includes a 0.75% rebate. These charges are significantly higher than the charges noted for 
the investments recommended in November 2015.
I have considered whether it was beneficial to Mr C to incur these additional costs and am 
not persuaded that it was. There is nothing to indicate that his circumstances had changed 
since November 2015, or that he was unhappy with the investments he held. Facet has not 
provided any real advantages to the additional cost, and in fact it misrepresented the 
position in relation to the charges by suggesting that the change would reduce Mr Cs 
charges. The information sent to Mr C in 2016 when the funds were changed did not outline 
the charges, the fact the charges were higher than the existing investments, or provide any 
sort of comparison. And I believe that if Mr C had been aware of the increase in charges, he 
would not have agreed to go ahead with the switch to the new investments.
So I dont think the switch to Facets own investment funds was suitable for Mr C. Im 
therefore upholding his complaint and will direct Facet to put things right.
There is no doubt that the failure of some of the underlying investments, and the resulting 
suspension of the investment funds, has caused a great deal of inconvenience to Mr C. For 
an extended period of time he was unable to access the normal income that he took from his 
pension savings. And he will have been distressed at the performance of the unsuitable 
investments. So I am directing Facet to additionally pay Mr C £600 for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Facet do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Facet must:Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Facet should add interest as set out below:
Facet should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Facet is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr C £600 for the considerable distress, upset and worry caused to him by the 
significant fall in value of his investment over a sustained period of time, and the 
changes he needed to make to his income sources during the fund suspension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Facet deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Facet should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
IndexDate of 
transfer to 
Facet 
investment 
fundsDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving Mr Cs 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Facet 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Facet pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Facet is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Facet may require that Mr C provides an undertaking 
to pay Facet any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Facet will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Facet 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
 
Mr C wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a 
financial business to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that 
I consider appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may 
recommend the business to pay the balance.
Facet Investment Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Facet Investment Management Ltd 
should pay Mr C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set 
out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Facet Investment Management Ltd pays Mr C the balance plus 
any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Facet 
Investment Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Facet Investment Management Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that he 
may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Facet Investment 
Management Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out 
above.
Facet Investment Management Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr C that either he 
repays to Facet Investment Management Ltd any amount Mr C may receive from the 
portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Facet at that point.
Mr C should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman