DRN-3338697
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited (MAFS) recommended 
she transfer benefits held in an occupational defined-benefit (DB) pension scheme and 
three defined-contribution (DC) schemes to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The 
funds were subsequently invested in high-risk investments which Mrs G says werent 
suitable for her.
What happened
Mrs G was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2016. Mrs G 
was interested in accessing her pensions so she could take the maximum tax-free cash 
(TFC) to help fund a year abroad.
In April 2016, MAFSs adviser, Mr M, produced a pension transfer report in which he 
recommended Mrs G transfer the cash equivalent transfer value of all of her pensions to a 
SIPP with a business Ill refer to as L. Mr M set out what he thought a suitable asset 
allocation for Mrs G would be, based on her medium attitude to risk. He then recommended 
that the funds should be invested with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) who Ill refer to 
as B, using their model portfolio service. Mr M said B would be responsible for 
recommending a suitable investment portfolio.
Mrs G accepted the recommendations. On 2 June 2016, £2,492.09 was transferred to the 
SIPP, followed by £10,937.19 on 22 August 2016. Mrs G took TFC of £3,357.32 on 
30 August 2016. The transfer value of her DB scheme, £157,621.18 was paid into the SIPP 
on 26 October 2016. Mrs G took TFC of £39,405.30 on 1 November 2016. After a significant 
delay, the final pension, with a value of £8,588.80, was transferred to the SIPP on 
8 June 2017. MAFS took a fee of 3% of the transfer values and would take 0.5% of the 
pension value in return for ongoing advice.
Although MAFS had recommended that Mrs G should invest her funds with B, an account 
with another DFM, which Ill refer to as S, was set up. On 31 October 2016, £117,449.52 
was transferred to S and S started trading on 7 November 2016. On 1 December 2016, 
£60,000 was invested in Optima bonds, with the remainder invested in a conservative 
Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) fund.
In late 2016 MAFS started looking into pension advice provided where Mr B had acted as 
the introducer. And Mr M was dismissed as a result of regulatory breaches MAFS uncovered 
through its investigation. Soon after, S went into administration, meaning Mrs Gs 
investments were inaccessible and were potentially worthless.
A complaint was also submitted to L on the grounds that it had failed to carry out sufficient 
due diligence checks on S, which had led to unsuitable investments being made for Mrs G. L 
turned this complaint down so it has been referred to our service and is ongoing.
Mrs G lodged a claim with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about S 
but this claim was rejected on the grounds that her complaint against L hadnt yet been 
resolved and it was possible she could recover her losses from it instead.
Mrs G then complained to MAFS about the suitability of the advice to transfer her pensions 
and the investments made on her behalf. She didnt think MAFS had assessed her attitude 
to risk correctly, which she said was low.
MAFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension advice was suitable and it could not 
have prevented the investments being made through S as it appeared Mrs G had authorised 
these, most likely at the direction of Mr B. Mrs G referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think MAFSs advice was suitable for 
Mrs G. She wasnt persuaded that Mrs G actually required access to her TFC to fund her 
year abroad as she already had access to at least £40,000, and there wasnt any evidence 
to support that shed need more than this. The investigator also thought that MAFS couldve 
prevented Mrs Gs loss through S as it had been made aware an account had been opened 
with S, which was contrary to its recommendation. The investigator thought that with 
appropriate enquiries and oversight from MAFS the investments wouldnt have been made, 
so it was reasonable to hold MAFS fully responsible for Mrs Gs loss. She recommended 
Mrs G should be put back into the position she wouldve been in if she hadnt been advised 
to transfer any of her pensions. She also awarded compensation of £300 for the upset 
caused.
Mrs G accepted the investigators opinion but MAFS didnt agree and asked for a final 
decision. It said Mrs G had a clear need for TFC to fund her year abroad and maintained it 
couldnt have prevented the investments made through S. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MAFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of these and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The advice to transfer Mrs Gs DB scheme
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, MAFS 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Gs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability of the transfer
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was provided.
Mrs G was 55 at the time the advice was given to her. Her DB scheme had a normal 
retirement age of 62. Mrs G had left her employment to embark on a year abroad. She then 
intended to return to look for employment - she told MAFS she wanted to retire between age 
60 and 62.
 
Mrs Gs DB scheme provided an annual pension of £7,011 at age 62. The investment return 
(critical yield) required to match the DB scheme at age 62 was 14.15% per year if she took a 
full pension. The critical yield required if Mrs G took TFC and a reduced pension wasnt 
provided. This compares with the discount rate of 3.7% per year for 6 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. No analysis was carried out 
based on Mrs G taking her benefits from the DB scheme at age 55.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mrs Gs medium attitude to risk  although I think her attitude to risk was actually lower than 
this  and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs G giving up the 
guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 14.5%, which was 
substantially more than the discount rate and the regulators upper projection rate, I think 
Mrs G was likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower overall value than her DB scheme 
provided at retirement, as a result of transferring her pension and investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. By transferring, Mrs G wouldve also been taking on significant investment 
risk, and as this pension formed the majority of her retirement provisions, I dont think she 
had any real capacity for loss.
The adviser seemed to acknowledge that the critical yield was too high, stating that MAFS 
wouldnt usually recommend a transfer where the critical yield was over 7%. However, he 
said that other considerations, such as TFC, death benefits or the funding position of the 
scheme, would outweigh the critical yield. The adviser set out the advantages and 
disadvantages of the DB scheme, noting Mrs G would be entitled to a higher TFC sum and a 
higher lump sum death benefit. However, at no point did he explain to Mrs G that she was 
very likely to be worse off in retirement if she transferred out of her DB scheme. All the 
adviser said was that Mrs G could potentially be giving up higher benefits by transferring. 
And I dont think Mrs G wouldve understood this to mean that she was very likely to receive 
a lower income at retirement by transferring out of her DB scheme. 
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mrs Gs best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as MAFS has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and TFC
MAFS said that Mrs G wanted to maximise her TFC and take this immediately to fund her 
year abroad. MAFS said Mrs G didnt want to take any income, so accessing benefits from 
her DB scheme didnt meet her needs. 
Ive considered this carefully, and while I appreciate that Mrs G approached MAFS with 
taking TFC for this purpose in mind, I dont think advising her to transfer her pension just to 
access TFC, was suitable advice or was in her best interest.
I say this because Mrs G already had substantial savings available to her following the sale 
of her home. MAFS recorded in the pension transfer report that Mrs G had sold her home 
and after redeeming her mortgage she would be left with around £39,000 before the 
deduction of expenses (Mrs G provided us with evidence showing she received just over 
£36,000 after fees). It also noted in the fact-find that she had £4,000 in savings. So, I think it 
is fair to say that at the point the advice was given, Mrs G had access to around £40,000. 
However, it doesnt appear that any consideration was given to whether this sum was 
sufficient to meet Mrs Gs needs whilst she was living abroad. In fact, as far as the evidence 
provided shows, there was no discussion about the level of income Mrs G would need whilst 
abroad at all. And I think that ought to have been the starting point in determining whether 
Mrs G accessing her DB pension to fund her year abroad was in her best interest.
Mrs G was intending to spend the majority of her time in Thailand, where the cost of living 
was substantially lower. Mrs G has told us that she thought shed need up to £20,000 to fund 
this. And in the absence of any analysis to demonstrate that Mrs G needed more than this, 
I think having £40,000 available to her  the equivalent of over £3,300 per month  was 
enough to meet her needs. By contrast, if Mrs G instead transferred her pension and took 
her TFC, she wouldve most likely had funds far in excess of what was needed, whilst 
simultaneously reducing the pension available to her at retirement. And given this was her 
main pension, and she intended to retire before her state pension age of 66, I think she 
wouldve been reliant on this pension to meet her needs in retirement.
Although Ive seen no evidence to support this, if Mrs G did require funds in excess of what 
she already had, I think she couldve also used the funds she had available to her in her 
three personal pensions. These had a combined value of around £22,000, meaning Mrs G 
couldve taken around £5,000 as TFC. While I dont think there was an immediate need to do 
this, if whilst Mrs G was abroad she thought she needed further funds, I think MAFS ought to 
have advised her to consider accessing these pensions instead. I note however, that MAFS 
wouldve needed to arrange to switch these pensions to a product offering flexible 
drawdown, such as a stakeholder pension plan. And I note that if Mrs G needed more than 
£5,000 she wouldve needed to pay income tax. However, I still think this wouldve been 
preferable to her transferring her DB scheme, which meant giving up guaranteed retirement 
income that I think she was relying on. That said, I still dont think Mrs G had any need for 
funds above that which she already had following the sale of her home.
MAFS suggests that Mrs G may have needed her savings to fund a property purchase when 
she returned from her travels. However, if this were her plan, I wouldve expected MAFS to 
have established this at the time. It doesnt appear that this was a priority for Mrs G at the 
point of the advice. And Im satisfied that if this was what Mrs G had planned to use her savings for, she wouldve said so. Furthermore, Mrs G has told us she received a 
redundancy payment of £14,000 when she left her job and sold some shares for £3,000. So, 
in total, she had around £57,000 available to her at the time of the advice. If Mrs G spent 
£20,000 funding her year abroad, that wouldve still left a substantial fund to put towards 
purchasing another home if she so desired. But as Ive said, theres no evidence to support 
this at the time of the advice, so Im not persuaded Mrs G had any specific plans for her 
savings such that they couldnt have been used to fund her year abroad.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs G didnt need to transfer her DB scheme in order to have 
sufficient money to fund her year abroad. And it follows that I dont think it was suitable 
advice to recommend Mrs G transfer her pension for this reason.
Death benefits
It appears that MAFS also argued that Mrs G would be entitled to higher death benefits by 
transferring, and that this meant her funds could be passed on to her non-dependent son. 
But I dont think that was a genuine objective for Mrs G as she completed a pension transfer 
questionnaire stating that a lump sum on her death wasnt important to her. And ultimately, a 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement and the priority here was for 
MAFS to advise Mrs G about what was best for her retirement. Overall, I dont think different 
death benefits available by transferring the pension to a SIPP justified the likely decrease of 
retirement benefits for Mrs G.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and control a SIPP offered Mrs G if she transferred her DB 
scheme would have sounded attractive to her. But MAFS wasnt there to just transact what 
Mrs G might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mrs G needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs G to transfer out of her DB scheme was 
suitable. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, 
Mrs G was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And in my view, there were no 
other particular reasons that would justify a transfer and outweigh this, particularly when 
Mrs G already had sufficient savings to fund her year living abroad, which was her only 
genuine objective at the time.
So, I think MAFS shouldve advised Mrs G to remain in her DB scheme. And Im satisfied 
that Mrs G would have listened to that advice, despite the involvement of Mr B. I say this 
because Mrs G was not an experienced investor and she wasnt going to be earning a wage 
for at least a year  this pension formed the majority of her retirement provision. So, if MAFS 
had provided Mrs G with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
The advice to transfer Mrs Gs personal pensions
I think when Mrs G approached MAFS for advice, her main reason for doing so was to talk 
about the possibility of transferring out of her DB scheme. I say this because it was her 
largest pension, offering the most to her in terms of TFC. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that Mrs G had an interest otherwise in switching her personal pensions. The 
management charges were low, and Mrs G hadnt expressed any concerns with 
performance. So, I dont think Mrs G wouldve had any interest in switching these plans if 
she wasnt going to be transferring out of her DB scheme. And as Ive said above, I dont 
think Mrs G shouldve been advised to transfer out of her DB scheme. So, it follows that I dont think Mrs G wouldve switched these pensions to the SIPP if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Investments made through S / Mr B
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mrs G and Ive decided that she wouldnt have switched her personal pensions 
but for the unsuitable advice. So, it follows that I dont necessarily need to consider the 
suitability of the investments that went on to be made. This is because Mrs G should have 
been advised to remain in her DB scheme and I think she wouldve accepted that advice. So 
the unsuitable investments made through S would never have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given to her at the outset.
Nevertheless, MAFS has argued that Mrs G didn't suffer any loss until her funds were 
invested in an account with S, through which the Optima bonds were purchased. MAFS says 
its adviser had no involvement in this  it recommended Mrs G should invest her funds with 
B in its model portfolio service in line with her attitude to risk. MAFS says the investments 
made via S were instead arranged by Mr B, the unregulated introducer. And MAFS feels that 
it couldnt have prevented these investments or Mrs Gs loss. So, it says it should not be 
held responsible for any of the loss associated with the investments through S.
 
However, Ive seen clear evidence demonstrating that MAFS was aware that an account 
with S had been set up before any investments were made. Ive seen two emails relating to 
the account with S being set up and money being transferred to it. The first email, dated 
26 October 2016, was sent from L to MAFSs adviser, Mr M, confirming the DB scheme 
funds had been received and said:
Would you please confirm if you wish for these funds to be sent to [S] once the account has 
been set up and benefits have been paid to the client.
An email dated 31 October 2016 was then sent from L to S, confirming the funds had been 
sent to the account with S  MAFS was copied into this exchange.
Although I havent seen any correspondence from the parties between these emails, on 
balance, I think the account was opened and money sent to this account on MAFSs 
instruction. MAFS was the adviser responsible for servicing the SIPP and L required MAFSs 
confirmation to send Mrs Gs funds to the account with S. Even if I could accept the 
instruction was given by another party, perhaps Mr B, MAFS was aware that the account 
with S had been set up and funds sent to it. This was a significant deviation from the advice 
given to Mrs G by MAFS, as per the suitability report, which recommended the entirety of the 
funds should be invested with B. However, MAFSs adviser didnt question this, which leads 
me to believe he was aware that Mrs Gs funds were going to be invested with S, contrary to 
his original advice.
I know that letters were sent to S and L, signed by Mrs G, which gave instructions to 
purchase the Optima bonds and to open an account with S in May 2016 and 
September 2016, and that this was mostly likely orchestrated by Mr B. But the only way this 
couldve actually happened was by MAFS facilitating it. Its evident that the letters 
purportedly sent by Mrs G were not acted upon, as L instead asked MAFS to confirm it 
should proceed with sending money to the account with S in late October 2016, after the 
letters had been sent.
Given the Optima bonds werent purchased until December 2016, I think MAFS was in a 
position to have prevented the investment, and indeed it should have. It should have 
questioned why Mrs G was suddenly interested in investing through a different DFM and as her ongoing adviser, it ought to have advised her on whether the intended investments 
through S were suitable for her. It seems MAFS already accepts that these investments 
werent suitable for Mrs G and I agree. The Optima bonds were illiquid and highly 
speculative. Although I dont think Mrs G had a medium attitude to risk  I think she was a 
cautious investor given her investment experience, capacity for loss and term to retirement  
Im persuaded that MAFS shouldve advised her against investing in this way. I think this 
wouldve carried significant weight and would, I believe, have dissuaded Mrs G from 
proceeding with the investment despite the influence of Mr B.
In any event, as Ive set out in detail above, MAFS should not have advised Mrs G to 
transfer her DB scheme to a SIPP, so but for that advice she wouldnt have been exposed to 
the unsuitable investment made through S on her behalf. However, I think it is fair to hold 
MAFS fully responsible for Mrs Gs loss arising from this investment because I think it could 
have, and should have, prevented it.
Im aware Mrs G has made a claim about S to the FSCS. But as a scheme of last resort, its 
possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be held liable  and it appears 
that is the approach the FSCS has already taken here. So this means an apportionment of 
only part of the loss to MAFS could risk leaving Mrs G out of pocket. But I think its important 
to point out that Im not saying MAFS is wholly responsible for the losses simply because S 
is now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that MAFS gave unsuitable advice 
and it is responsible for the losses Mrs G suffered in transferring her DB scheme and 
personal pensions to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law 
or irrational, but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable 
position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mrs G wouldnt have lost out at all but for 
MAFSs failings and that MAFS benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  
I think MAFS being responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this 
case.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs G as far as possible in the position she would be in 
now if MAFS had given her suitable advice. I think Mrs G would have remained in her DB 
scheme. I also think she would have retained her existing personal pension arrangements.
What should MAFS do?
To compensate Mrs G fairly, MAFS must determine the combined fair value of her 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mrs G had been given suitable advice, I think she would have remained in the DB scheme. 
MAFS must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mrs G lost as a result of transferring 
out of her DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs G whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. Mrs G has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs G.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Gs acceptance of the decision.
MAFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect MAFS to carry out the calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
MAFS must compare the value of Mrs Gs personal pensions transferred to her SIPP with 
that of the notional values from the previous providers to determine the fair value of Mrs Gs 
personal pensions if suitable advice had been given. Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Value of 
the three 
personal 
pensions 
transferred 
to the SIPPStill 
exists 
and 
liquidNotional 
values from 
previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs G's pensions had they remained with the previous providers until 
the end date. MAFS should request that the previous providers calculate these values.
However, if any or all of the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, 
MAFS will need to determine a fair value for Mrs G's pensions instead, using this 
benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also 
apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of 
the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if MAFS totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. My aim 
is to return Mrs G to the position she would have been in but for the actions of MAFS. This is 
complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, MAFS should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investments. If MAFS is unable to buy the investments, it should give them a nil value 
for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything MAFS has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be 
applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, MAFS may ask Mrs G to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the illiquid investments. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. MAFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If MAFS asks Mrs G to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs G within 90 days of the date 
MAFS receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MAFS 
to pay Mrs G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
MAFS should also pay Mrs G £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has impacted her retirement planning.
SIPP Fees
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by MAFS taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs G can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. 
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If MAFS is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs G into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs G would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs G could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. 
My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited should pay Mrs G the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited pays Mrs G the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs G. This is until any future benefit that 
she may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mrs G that either 
she repays to Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited any amount she may receive from the 
portfolio thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to MAFS at that point.
Mrs G should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman