DRN-1676764
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
What happened
Mrs G took out an URCA in February 2010 with Bank of Scotland.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including mobile phone insurance, travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and a fee free overdraft of up 
to
£300, for a monthly fee of £12.50.
Our adjudicator looked at Mrs Gs complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Mrs G 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs G was aware the URCA was optional and 
whether she was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was.
Mrs G has told us shed had a fee free account before she took out the URCA, so she 
knew she didnt have to pay a fee for an account.
Mrs G says she didnt know shed taken out the URCA. Whilst I dont doubt Mrs Gs 
honest recollections, I think after the years that have elapsed, her memory is mistaken.
I say this because Bank of Scotland had provided the request to change account to an 
URCA form for the account which she has signed. Bank of Scotland also has a record of 
issuing a welcome pack to her. And the fees would have appeared each month on her 
statement. So, Im not able to say its more likely than not that Mrs G had no idea shed 
taken out the account and was paying for benefits as I would have to if I were to uphold 
her complaint on this point.
So, I think Mrs G was aware she had a choice and chose to take out an URCA. 
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mrs G to take it, but 
Mrs G says it did. Ive not seen any evidence such as a record of a discussion about her 
personal circumstances to show that Bank of Scotland did advise Mrs G. And based on this 
services knowledge of Bank of Scotlands business practices at the time, I think its more 
likely than not that Bank of Scotland didnt advise Mrs G to take out the URCA.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Mrs G with enough information about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think Bank of Scotland did tell Mrs 
G about the URCA is some detail as it was trying to sell the account to her. And I think it 
was of interest to her.
I say this because shes told us that at the time she travelled; she had a car and a mobile 
phone; and she had an overdraft facility on her account so she would have expected to 
benefit from the better overdraft arrangements, in particular, avoiding the £1 a day overdraft 
charge that Bank of Scotland made on its fee free accounts. And she could have taken 
advantage of the purchase protection and other benefits the URCA offered.
From what Mrs G has said about her personal circumstances at the time she took out 
the account, there was nothing that would stop her taking advantage of the URCAs 
benefits.
Mrs G says she had alternative arrangements for some of these things. But it wouldve 
been for her to end those and use her account when she wished to. While the account 
was open, she did have the benefits including the travel, car and home cover without 
needing to take any further action, even if she didnt make a claim. And it was for her to 
close the account if she no longer wanted it at any time.
So, in my view, Mrs G knew she had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it; 
and there was no information that she wasnt given that would have put her off buying 
it.
So, I dont think Mrs G lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman