DRN-4017969
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the advice he received from Sesame Limited (via their appointed 
representative, Regal Partners Financial Planning Limited) to transfer his occupational 
defined benefits (DB) pension into two individual pensions plans, one of which was a section 
32 individual pension plan.
Mr L is currently represented by a claims management company, but for brevity I will refer 
directly to Mr L throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr L left his employers DB pension scheme on 29 February 2000. At this point his salary 
was just over £15,000 and he had 24 years and 2 months pensionable service.
In September 2000, after seeing an advertisement about releasing Tax-Free Cash (TFC) for 
consumers over 50, it appears Mr L contacted Sesame Limited (Sesame) to enquire about 
the amount of TFC he might be able to withdraw from his pension. 
Mr L signed a letter of authority dated 11 September 2000 allowing Sesame to request 
relevant information about his DB pension from the scheme trustees. A transfer value 
statement was provided on 28 September 2000 that noted the DB pension had an equivalent 
transfer value of just under £73,280. This included a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
of just over £32,000. 
The information provided by the scheme trustees also explained that the schemes normal 
retirement age (NRA) was 65. If Mr L had stayed in the deferred scheme, his pension on 
leaving at this age was forecast to have been £6,052 each year, including the GMP. The 
GMP element wouldve been subject to a final revaluation at his retirement date, as would 
the non-protected rights (from the point of his ceasing to be an active member of the scheme 
until the date of retirement). 
Sesame also gathered information about Mr Ls circumstances. At the time he was 49 years 
old, single, and employed in sales.  He had a monthly income of £920 with a monthly 
expenditure of £515, including loan payments of £215. His debts totalled £11,900. 
The paperwork from the time records Mr L as having a balanced attitude to risk. It also 
records that Mr L wanted to retire at age 60, needed an income of £240 each month, and 
considered the preserved pension as a major proportion of his pension funding. In addition, it 
was noted that Mr L wanted to have investment control of his pension, to maximise his TFC 
in order to clear his personal debts, and to reduce his working hours so he could look after 
his mother, who was unwell.
Sesame obtained a pension transfer value analysis report (TVAS), setting out Mr Ls pension 
benefits at NRA under his employer scheme, and what growth - or critical yield  the fund 
would need to achieve to match these benefits. The investment return required each year to 
match Mr Ls DB scheme benefits was 5.3%.
 
On 24 October 2000 Sesame wrote to Mr L setting out his options, as follows:
1. To take benefits from his existing scheme, which wouldnt be payable until age 65. 
(In Mr Ls case, his DB pension didnt allow for early retirement at age 50, as the 
value of the fund didnt cover the GMP at state retirement age at that point. However, 
based on the projections, TFC of £13,690 wouldve been available to Mr L at NRA.)
2. To transfer his benefits to a pension providing £1,339 per year (on a single life, level 
basis only), thus releasing a maximum TFC of £14,436 and leaving the GMP element 
invested until age 65.
3. To transfer his benefits into an income drawdown plan providing TFC of £9,791 and 
taking an income of £1,938 in the first year, to provide initial cash totalling £11,729. 
The remaining fund would then be invested, allowing him to take further income 
immediately or later.
On 30 October 2000 Sesame provided a Formal Recommendation report advising Mr L to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits in order to access his TFC. Specifically, Sesame 
recommended the third option set out above, and advised that Mr Ls pension benefits be 
split and transferred into two separate plans. Sesame advised transferring the GMP benefits 
into a section 32 protected rights pension, and any benefits in excess of the GMP into a 
personal pension plan (PPP). The TFC would then be taken from the PPP.
Sesame said this was the only practical way Mr L could meet his objectives  including his 
main objective to release immediate cash, and recommended Scottish Life as the provider 
for both plans. Sesame also recommended that both funds should be invested in a balanced 
investment strategy. Mr L accepted Sesames advice and the funds were transferred into the 
two separate pension plans. 
Mr L complained to Sesame on 17 March 2021, stating he had been given unsuitable advice 
to transfer his DB pension scheme into two personal pensions. Specifically, Mr L said that he 
had lost all his accrued and future guaranteed benefits, and that this was due to being put 
into personal pensions with funds that were too high risk. Mr L also said that he was an 
inexperienced investor who didnt understand the implications of Sesames 
recommendations or the risks involved and that, had he been made aware of the full 
implications of the transfer of his occupational scheme, he would not have transferred.
Sesame didnt consider the merits of the complaint as they said it had been brought out of 
time. Mr L was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this Service. The complaint 
was passed to me and I issued a jurisdiction decision finding that it had been brought in time 
and that this Service could consider it. In summary, I said that Mr Ls complaint of 17 March 
2021 did not cover the same issues as his 2014 complaint, and that therefore the 2021 
complaint was a new complaint. I also said that I hadnt seen sufficient evidence to persuade 
me that Mr L knew or ought reasonably to have known that he had cause for complaint prior 
to March 2018, meaning his complaint had been brought in time.
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Ls complaint and said that the DB scheme 
would have been of great value to Mr L and that the transfer had not been in his best 
interests. When considering Mr Ls goal of accessing TFC to repay debts, the investigator 
noted Mr Ls monthly repayments were comfortably servicing his debt prior to the transfer.
Sesame didnt agree and reiterated Mr Ls main objectives at the time the advice was given. 
Sesame said that Mr L had no other capital or savings to pay his existing debts, and that  
had he pursued his goal of reducing his working hours to care for his mother  he wouldve 
had less income, thus reducing his ability to service his debts. In addition, Sesame pointed 
out that, as Mr L was unable to take his benefits from his DB scheme at age 50, he had no other way of accessing TFC. As the TVAS showed the yield required to match the DB 
pension was achievable, and within the tolerance of the rates set down at the time of advice, 
Sesame said the advice to transfer had been suitable.
Sesame went on to claim it was made clear to Mr L that the recommendation was to stay 
where he was and to leave his occupational scheme alone, but that Mr L had chosen to go 
ahead anyway. Sesame also said options were provided to Mr L with the pros and cons 
clearly set out. In addition, Sesame said on balance had Mr L been told not to transfer he 
wouldve opted to proceed anyway as it was the only way to clear his debts and care for this 
mother, thus creating an immediate and justifiable need that Sesame claimed could not be 
addressed in any other way.
A second investigator responded to Sesames points, and gave the opinion that Mr L had a 
healthy surplus of income which couldve been used to clear his debts, and that  in any 
case - the debts were being serviced at the time. As regards Mr Ls hopes to reduce his 
working hours to care for his mother, our investigator pointed out that it didnt appear this 
issue had been properly explored or documented at the time the advice was given, or that 
possible alternatives to meet this need had been considered.
In addition, our investigator said that, although Mr L couldnt access his scheme benefits at 
age 50, there had been no immediate need for him to access TFC in any case. Furthermore, 
the investigator explained the TVAS report was based on Mr L taking benefits at age 65 - a 
different scenario from the one the recommendation was based on. Lastly, the investigator 
refuted Sesames claim that a recommendation had been made to leave Mr Ls pension 
where it was, and clarified that the recommendation had been to transfer. 
Sesame didnt accept our investigators view. As the parties couldnt reach an agreement, 
the complaint has been referred back to me to make a finding on the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
As set out in my previous jurisdiction decision on this case, Mr Ls complaint of March 2021 
raises new and different concerns from those raised in his 2014 complaint, and Ive not seen 
anything to make me think Mr L ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for 
complaint about these new issues prior to March 2018. As Mr L brought his complaint within 
3 years of this date, Im satisfied Mr L brought this complaint in time and that its one I can 
consider. So, I will go on to discuss the merits of this complaint below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, standards, 
and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive reached my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The advice Mr L has complained about was provided by Sesame (via their appointed 
representative, Regal Partners Financial Planning Limited) in October 2000. At the time of 
the advice, Regal Partners was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Prior 
to this, Regal Partners had been a member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and 
Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). When the PIA took responsibility for FIMBRA 
businesses in 1994, they adopted the FIMBRA rules. And these adopted rules applied at the 
time of the advice in this case.The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. The key 
rules applying from April 1998 were as follows:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
An amendment to the guidelines on best advice also required members to ensure their 
recommendations were made on the basis of the clients best interests rather than the 
income generated for the member. 
Guidance by FIMBRA to members, specifically regarding recommendations to transfer 
benefits from a DB scheme, was also relevant here. Amongst other things, this noted that 
many customers would be best advised to remain in the DB scheme. When giving advice 
about whether to transfer, other options  such as doing nothing  should be given equal 
consideration. And the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) should be carried out and discussed 
in a simple clear language. 
So, in summary, this meant Sesame had to ensure the recommendation was in Mr Ls best 
interests, considering his circumstances at the time and the alternative options available. 
The records Sesame completed at the time indicate that Mr Ls DB pension was his main, 
and possibly only, pension. The paperwork does suggest that Mr L had access to his new 
employers scheme, but it doesnt appear that Sesame recorded the type of scheme or 
whether Mr L was a member of it. In any case, even if Mr L was a member of his new 
employers scheme, this would have given him a maximum of 15 years service until he 
reached his retirement age of 65, compared with already having over 24 years service in the 
DB pension at the heart of this complaint.  
Furthermore, on the Financial Questionnaire, in response to the question How do you 
consider the pension benefits we are investigating?, Mr L selected the answer A major 
proportion of my pension funding. In summary, it seems clear that Mr Ls DB pension 
wouldve provided a significant part of his pension provision in retirement, and was therefore 
both valuable and important to him. 
I accept that when Mr L sought advice from Sesame about accessing his TFC at age 50, it 
wasnt possible to achieve this without transferring out of his DB pension. However, given 
the importance to Mr L of his DB pension, the question Sesame shouldve considered was 
whether it was really in Mr Ls best interests to access his pension at age 50 at all, and 
whether he had a genuine need to do so.
Sesame have said Mr Ls main objectives were to take TFC to repay his debt and to reduce 
his working hours in order to care for his mother, who was in poor health. Ive considered 
this in the light of what is known about Mr Ls circumstances at the time.
Mr L had a net disposable income of £405 each month and was comfortably servicing his 
debts, so debt repayment doesnt appear to have been a strong need for him. In fact, Mr L 
couldve paid down his debts even quicker using his disposable income, had he wished to do 
so. There is nothing to show that this option was considered, and instead Sesames 
recommendation was that Mr L take TFC from his pension to pay off the debts. I cant agree that obtaining TFC to repay well-serviced, non-urgent debt was sufficient justification for 
transferring out of a valuable DB pension scheme 15 years early. 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ls recorded objective that he wanted to reduce his working 
hours to care for his mother, and I accept this might well have been an important goal for Mr 
L. However, I would expect Sesame to have considered and recorded a number of details 
about this, as well as clarifying whether such an arrangement would be approved by Mr Ls 
employer, and  if so then undertaking an income and expenditure analysis based on Mr L 
proposed part-time hours. However, Ive not seen any evidence to show the adviser 
discussed this objective in any detail with Mr L.
Furthermore, neither the fact-find nor the recommendation report comment on the prognosis 
for Mr Ls mothers health, so it doesnt appear Sesame took into consideration whether Mr 
Ls caring responsibilities wouldve been temporary or permanent. In my view, this was an 
important question, the answer to which shouldve been factored into the formulation of any 
advice.
In short, the adviser shouldve considered Mr Ls overall financial position, taking into 
account his proposed new working hours, his caring responsibilities, and any other factors 
that might then have become relevant. As an example, the adviser couldve asked Mr L to 
find out from the Department of Social Security if there were any potential benefits to which 
he might be entitled due to becoming a carer for his mother, which couldve potentially made 
up any shortfall in his income. Its also possible that, given Mr Ls disposable income, his 
debt may have still been affordable, even had he reduced his working hours to care for his 
mother. However, again, there is no indication that any of this was discussed or quantified. 
As Sesame has cited a reduction in working hours as one of the main reasons for 
recommending the transfer to Mr L, this objective shouldve been underpinned by clear and 
robust reasoning, demonstrating a genuine need for TFC and/or additional income, and a 
sound basis for not pursuing any alternative options. For the reasons Ive given above, I 
cannot agree this was the case.
Turning to the age at which Mr L hoped to retire, it doesnt appear that Sesame sufficiently 
explored or pinned down the answer to this question. The fact find records his wish to retire 
at age 60, but there is no evidence that reasons for or implications of this wish were explored 
further, or that Mr L ever confirmed this as a strong objective he wanted to pursue rather 
than a general aspiration. Furthermore, the recommendation report simultaneously suggests 
that Mr L should maximise his pension by leaving the GMP element invested until he was 
65, but also that he should take his TFC and an initial income from age 50, thus only leaving 
the balance of the fund to accumulate to provide a pension income at the recommended age 
of 65. (Although, in the end, we know Mr L was subsequently recommended to purchase an 
annuity giving him an income from age 50.)  In summary, it doesnt appear that a definitive 
retirement age was ever fixed on, but  in any case  it seems that at the time the advice 
was given, Mr L wasnt ready to retire. 
Sesame shouldve also taken into account Mr Ls capacity for loss. Mr L had accrued 24 
years and 2 months of pensionable service, but it appears he had no other assets. He also 
had very little or no ability to be able to afford any losses, as he was highly unlikely to be 
able to replace any losses he did incur. So, it shouldve been apparent that taking monies 
from Mr Ls pension would have affected him negatively in retirement.
Along with his capacity for loss, Mr Ls investment experience shouldve been considered. 
Mr L wasnt an experienced investor, and yet the fact-find recorded that it was important to 
him to have investment control of his pension fund. However, Mr L didnt have the relevant 
investment knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. I also note Mr Ls appetite for investment risk was categorised as balanced. However, it 
doesnt appear that Sesame completed a risk assessment, and no details have been 
provided as to why Mr L was categorised in this way. Given Mr Ls lack of investment 
experience and his low capacity for loss, it seems likely to me that he wouldve been more 
appropriately categorised as a cautious investor than a balanced investor. 
Sesames recommendation to split the non-protected rights element from the protected 
rights element (GMP) of Mr Ls DB pension led to the creation of two separate pension 
plans, both of which were then subject to investment risk  rather than the DB scheme which 
had no investment risk at all. Only the GMP element remained protected, but there was little 
opportunity to exceed the guarantee. Having a DB pension presented no investment risk to 
Mr L and, in the light of his lack of experience and low capacity for loss, was more suitable 
for him. 
Part of Sesames recommendation was for Mr L to top up his TFC with a one-off taxable 
income payment, with the remaining fund staying invested so that Mr L could take an 
income, immediately or later. At this point Mr L was still 15 years away from retirement, or 
possibly only 10 years if he was able to realise his wish of retiring at age 60. Taking the TFC 
wouldve removed the main potential for growth from his plan, and the recommended 
flexibility and accessibility wouldve increased the risk of Mr L depleting the remaining limited 
funds in the PPP, potentially leaving very little or nothing for him in retirement - whether this 
was at age 60 or 65. (I also note that shortly afterwards Sesame recommended that Mr L 
purchase an annuity, meaning there was no further opportunity for growth on those funds in 
any case). 
As explained earlier, Im not persuaded that TFC and access to funds was necessary for Mr 
L at age 50, and so it follows that I also dont think Mr L had a need to be able to access his 
pension flexibly at the time. (As mentioned above, Mr Ls subsequent purchase of an annuity 
removed this flexibility anyway.) So again, I dont think aspect of the advice was suitable for 
Mr L.
Ive also considered the financial viability of the recommendation. The pension transfer 
report indicated an annual return of at least 5.3% was required just to match the DB scheme 
benefits.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing what they termed 
as discount rates for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions 
Review. Whilst businesses werent required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provided a useful indication of what growth rates were considered 
reasonably achievable at the time. 
When the advice was given to Mr L, the discount rate with 15 years until retirement was 
6.7%, and with 10 years until retirement 6.4%. The regulators upper projection rate at the 
time was 9%, the middle projection 7% and lower projection rate 5% each year. So, its 
reasonable to say - on face value - the critical yield of 5.3% couldve been achievable, were 
we to agree that Mr L had a medium attitude to risk. However, as Ive already said above, I 
think its more likely that Mr L shouldve been term a cautious investor  so, even on these 
figures, it seems the critical yield of 5.3% was too high. 
More importantly, the transfer report didnt accurately reflect the advice given. Mr Ls DB 
pension was transferred into two separate plans. One of which he could access immediately 
and the other (the section 32 plan) which could not be accessed at the time due to the GMP 
requirement. The TVAS report was completed on the basis the full transfer value would 
remain in the fund until age 65 or age 60. However, the advice Sesame gave was for only the GMP element to remain, with Mr L having immediate access to the other fund, which 
was valued at just under £41,230. As such, it was not a like-for-like comparison. 
In addition to the above, the report didnt take into account any escalation rates the DB 
pension wouldve received. So, in summary, I cant agree that Sesame demonstrated the 
recommendation was financially viable.
I accept Mr Ls initial request to Sesame was around taking TFC, and it seems probable that 
he did use these funds to pay his debts. However, as I said earlier, the primary purpose of 
his pension was to provide an income in his retirement, and Sesame shouldve advised Mr L 
accordingly. Ive looked at the advice process and, quite simply, it was inadequate. 
Under the guidance at the time, it was the responsibility of the adviser to take reasonable 
steps to obtain relevant information concerning a clients personal and financial 
circumstances. Yet, the fact find and recommendation report only records very limited 
information. It notes that Mr L would only need an income of £240 each month in retirement, 
but gives no explanation as to how he could live on such a small amount. It states Mr Ls 
employer offered a pension scheme which he was able to join, but doesnt say whether or 
not he had joined it. It notes Mr L had a rent or mortgage payment of £180 each month, but 
fails to clarify whether his main residence was rented or owned. 
Furthermore, it was Sesames responsibility to decide whether the objectives expressed by 
Mr L were needs or wants, to challenge and analyse these objectives, and to consider 
alternative solutions. It doesnt appear that Sesame did any of this in any detail  and, in 
fact, it wouldve been almost impossible to do so effectively as the information gathered 
around Mr Ls circumstances was so limited. I think this led to an unsafe recommendation to 
transfer, resulting in Mr L losing a valuable benefit. 
To conclude, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. In transferring out of the DB 
scheme, Mr L gave up a guaranteed, risk-free income at retirement and, as a result, was 
likely to have been worse off. Regardless of what Mr L mightve wanted, Sesames role was 
to make a recommendation in his best interests, and so Sesame shouldve advised Mr L to 
remain in his DB scheme.
Sesame has argued that  had he been advised to remain in his DB scheme  Mr L 
wouldve rejected this advice and insisted on proceeding with the transfer in any case. 
However, I note that Sesame has simultaneously argued that Mr L was in fact advised to 
remain in the scheme. These two arguments seem somewhat at odds with each other and, 
in any case, Ive seen no evidence to support either assertion. So, I think that if Mr L had 
been given a suitable recommendation to remain in the DB scheme, he wouldve most likely 
followed this advice. Therefore, I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. As Ive said above, if suitably 
advised, I think Mr L would have remained in the occupational scheme. 
Mr L has previously asked that the calculations be completed in line with FG17/9 guidance. 
However, given the new methodology will come into effect on 1 April 2023, we think it's 
reasonable for Sesame Limited to use the new guidance and rules. 
Sesame Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance under the new rules which come into effect on 1 April 2023. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and guidance: 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. 
The calculations should be completed after 1 April 2023, based on the most recent financial 
assumptions. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of the decision. Compensation should be based on Mr L taking benefits at age 
65, his scheme normal retirement age, as - had he been given suitable advice - I think its 
most likely he wouldve have taken his DB benefits no earlier than this age. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should (if possible) be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible, or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date 
Sesame Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sesame Limited to pay Mr L.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sesame Limited deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Sesame Limited should give Mr 
L a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr L asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Sesame Limited to pay Mr L the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Sesame 
Limited to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Sesame Limited 
to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Sesame Limited pays Mr L the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Sesame Ltd. My 
recommendation would not be binding on if Mr L doesnt accept. Furthermore, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sesame Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. Sesame Limited should also provide details of its calculation to 
Mr L in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
