DRN-2807539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by 
URV. The policy covered them from 8 January 2020 until 7 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs R travelled to Australia. Their planned return journey involved a flight from 
Australia to Dubai, and then a further flight from Dubai to the UK. The return flights were 
cancelled by the airline due to the Covid-19 global pandemic. Mr and Mrs R made a claim to 
URV for disruption allowance up to the policy limit of £350.
URV declined the claim. It said the relevant section of the policy only covers delays in the 
outbound flight, which here was the flight from the UK. As Mr and Mrs Rs claim related to 
the return flight (inbound flight), URV said this wasnt covered under the terms of the policy.
URV also said that even if this section did cover inbound flights, the terms only covered the 
final part of the journey  and in Mr and Mrs Rs situation this wouldve been the final flight 
from Dubai to the UK.
Mr and Mrs R say that the terms for disruption allowance dont specify that the outbound 
departure point has to be in the UK. They also say the flight from Dubai was a connecting 
flight, so the final part of the journey started from Australia.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that under the policy terms, Mr and 
Mrs Rs claim for disruption allowance would only be covered if it related to the outbound 
flight and not the inbound one  which it didnt. He also said that the final part of Mr and 
Mrs Rs journey wouldve been from Dubai, rather than Australia. Overall, he didnt think 
URV had done anything wrong in declining Mr and Mrs Rs claim for disruption allowance.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with out investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
The relevant section in the policy is called If your travel plans are disrupted (Policy B 
Section 1). This outlines that the insurer will pay for trip disruption allowance if:
the departure of your international flight, international train or sailing is delayed on your 
outbound journey for more than 12 hours from its scheduled departure time from your 
international departure point.
Mr and Mrs R say that this doesnt specify that the outbound journey has to be the one 
from the UK, whereas the terms do specify this under other sections of the policy. So, if the 
insurer meant the disruption allowance to only apply on the part of the trip originating from 
the UK, Mr and Mrs R say this shouldve been explained in the terms.
Firstly, I think the term above is clear enough to say that the insurer will pay for disruption 
allowance for delay on the outbound journey. But the issue here is the meaning of 
outbound when this isnt defined in the policy. And I accept that other sections of the policy 
specifically do refer to outbound journey from the UK whereas this one doesnt. 
Its our services approach that where words arent defined, well apply the words every day 
and commonly used meaning. I think the commonly used meaning for outbound is the 
journey out of the original country of departure, and inbound is the return journey back to 
the original country of departure. I think thats particularly the case when considering how the 
words are usually used in the context of travelling abroad. 
In the circumstances of this complaint I think its reasonable to conclude that the outbound 
journey was Mr and Mrs Rs flights from UK to Australia, and the inbound journey was the 
flight from Australia to the UK.
With the above in mind, I think URV has acted fairly in considering Mr and Mrs Rs claim to 
relate to an inbound flight, which isnt covered under the disruption allowance section of the 
policy.
Our investigator also referred to the definition of international departure point which 
includes both the departure point (UK) as well as from where you depart to begin the final 
part of your journey home at the end of your trip. But I dont think this definition is relevant 
here, as the term for disruption allowance specifically refers to outbound journey. And for 
the reasons Ive explained above, Mr and Mrs Rs claim relates to the inbound journey.
Taking everything into account, I dont think URV has done anything wrong by declining 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
URV accepted my provisional decision but Mr and Mrs R didnt. In short, they said they didnt 
understand how I hadnt found in their favour when the word outbound wasnt used in the 
relevant clause, and that their return journey included a transit through Dubai, rather than 
entering the country.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Ill now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points Mr and Mrs R have raised. But I had already considered these 
when I reached my provisional decision. Firstly, the word outbound is included in the 
relevant clause  I quoted this in my provisional decision. And I also explained what our 
services approach was when a word wasnt defined in the policy terms, and what I thought 
the commonly used meaning of outbound was.For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I still think its reasonable to conclude 
that the outbound journey was Mr and Mrs Rs flights from UK to Australia.
And as I explained in my provisional decision, that means I dont think the exact details of 
Mr and Mrs Rs return (inbound) journey are relevant. This is because the relevant policy 
section only covered claims for the outbound journey, ie Mr and Mrs Rs flights from UK to 
Australia.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. That means I dont think URV has done 
anything wrong by declining Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman