DRN-3233107
The complaint
Mr H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax dealt with Mrs Hs accounts following her passing away.
What happened
Mr H says Mrs H passed away in March 2020 without a will being in place and it was 
intended that he would inherit the money she would leave. He says he attended a Halifax 
branch and provided the death certificate and identification which meant the funeral bill could 
be paid. Mr H says he was then told he would need to attend a different branch to make an 
application to withdraw the rest of any money. He says before that appointment his sister 
attended a different Halifax branch and took the money from Mrs Hs account. Mr H says he 
has health problems and has been caused distress for which he should be paid 
compensation. He says Halifax ought to have established what was going on as he had the 
original death certificate.
Halifax says it hasnt made a mistake and has followed its bereavement process. It says it 
was given a death certificate and identification from Mrs Hs next of kin and correctly 
transferred the money. Halifax says Mr H didnt provide a letter of administration and it 
couldnt have known about any family dispute.
Mr H brought the complaint to us and our investigator explained this was a complaint by the 
estate of Mrs H and not a complaint by Mr H. So, the investigator explained she couldnt 
investigate any impact on Mr H himself. The investigator thought Halifax had followed its 
bereavement policy and that Mr H didnt have exclusive rights to deal with the estate. The 
investigator also thought Halifax had been provided with identification documents and 
wouldnt be aware of any dispute.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and maintains that he is entitled to know what documents 
were provided. He also maintains he should be entitled to compensation in his personal 
capacity and questions if anyone could obtain the money from an account in these 
circumstances. Mr H says it ought to have been clear to Halifax that there was a family 
dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I make clear that this is a complaint brought by the estate of Mrs H and not by Mr H. So, I 
can only consider the impact there may have been on the estate and not on Mr H as he 
would like. It follows that even if I thought Halifax had made a mistake, I could only order it to 
pay compensation to the estate. I also make clear that we are not Halifaxs regulator and its 
not our role to comment on its bereavement policy or to tell it what type of documents it 
accepts in this sort of case.
Im satisfied that this is a dispute between Mr H and his family. I dont think Halifax was told 
about any issues between Mr H and his family by Mr H and I dont think it could reasonably 
have known that unless Mr H told it. It follows that I dont think Halifax should have been 
alerted to a potential dispute as Mr H suggests.
I have looked carefully at Halifaxs bereavement policy. And having done so Im satisfied that 
it followed it in these circumstances. I can see that it was provided with identification 
evidence and a death certificate. So, I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
allowing the withdrawal of money from Mrs Hs account. Im satisfied that Mrs H didnt leave 
a will and at that stage Mr H didnt have a letter of administration. Im also satisfied that 
meant that Mr H and his sister were in exactly the same position as next of kin with neither 
having exclusive rights to deal with the estate. I have made clear that Halifax couldnt have 
known about any possible dispute or what Mrs Hs intentions were.
I dont think it matters what took place in branch when Mr H later attended for the 
bereavement appointment as by that stage the money had been withdrawn. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has acted fairly and in good faith. I find this brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and no doubt Mr H will consider 
alternative action if he believes the estate has suffered a financial loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman