DRN-2812441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly refused to meet a claim they 
made on their commercial insurance policy. They are being helped by a relative, Mr G.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P own an empty commercial property which used to be a store. They say that 
the sign along the front of the store was damaged by strong winds in May 2019. They made 
a claim under the storm damage section of their policy. Aviva considered the claim, but said 
there hadnt been storm conditions at the time as measured from a nearby weather station. It 
sent a contractor to look at the damage, who said there was also evidence of underlying 
damage that had probably built up over time, and this had likely contributed to the collapse 
of the signage.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and pointed out that no-one looked closely at the damage  so 
couldnt say if it had been a contributory factor. They believe the majority of the woodwork 
was in good condition and a neighbour had seen the signage fall when there were strong 
winds.
They believe the wind speed measurements are from a station too far away to accurately 
reflect the precise conditions at the building  and that the local geography, including a 
nearby river, could have meant local speeds were high enough to cause damage.
Mr and Mrs P have raised these points with Aviva, but it hasnt changed its stance.
They asked us to review their complaint. Our investigator said he couldnt find evidence of 
storm conditions at the property address. He thought Aviva had done as much as it needed 
to by inspecting the damage  and he thought it reasonable for Aviva to rely on the 
conclusions reached by its contractors about the condition of the property.
Mr and Mrs P dont agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer makes a claim for storm damage, the onus is on them to show that there 
were storm conditions at the time. Thats because, to make any successful claim, a 
customer needs to show that whats called an insured event has occurred. Looking at Mr 
and Mrs Ps policy I cant see that a claim could be made under any heading other than 
storm, so I think it was reasonable for Aviva to consider this a storm damage claim.
As our investigator noted, theres no definition of what constitutes a storm in the policy. But 
he explained this service thinks wind speeds over 47mph would be enough to qualify.
He didnt think there had been strong enough winds at the time as the maximum recorded at 
a weather station about ten miles away was about 35mph. So he didnt think it unfair for 
Aviva to say it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr G has explained the local geography and why he and the Ps think that means there 
might have been higher local gusts of wind. And theyve pointed to a neighbour who saw the 
damage occur and reported strong winds. I dont doubt there were strong winds  but that 
doesnt mean they were storm force. Whilst I understand the wind speeds were measured 
from some distance away, the maximum speed recorded was well below what this service 
usually thinks is strong enough to damage a building in good condition. Im afraid neither of 
Mr Gs points persuade me that there were storm conditions at the time. 
Aviva went on to say that there was another reason why it need not meet the claim  which 
was that it was relying on a clause in the policy that said it need not meet a claim caused 
over time by general wear and tear. If Aviva wants to do that then its up to Aviva to show 
this is the likely main cause of the damage. 
Its not for this service to stand in the place of the insurer  so I cant decide exactly what 
caused the signage to fall. But I can say that, as Aviva has sent at least two contractors  
one a specialist  to look at the damage, then I think its reasonable for it to rely on their 
opinions when deciding if it will meet the claim. Mr G has argued extensively about why he 
and the Ps disagree with the reports  but they havent produced any new evidence to 
disprove what Avivas contractors said. So I cant say Aviva relied on the reports unfairly.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Aviva need do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman