DRN-3975557
The complaint
Mrs Ms complained  on behalf of her late husband, Mr Ms, estate  that Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined the claim made on Mr Ms life policy.
What happened
In early 2018, Mr M bought a life policy from L&G, which provided £100,000 worth of life 
cover.  The policy also provided a claim could be made in the event he was diagnosed with a 
terminal illness.
In early 2021, Mr M was sadly diagnosed with cancer.  So he submitted a claim for the 
terminal illness benefit on his policy.  Unfortunately, the claim was still under consideration 
when Mr M died in autumn 2021.  Mrs M continued the claim for the life benefit to be paid to 
his estate. 
L&G declined the claim.  They also cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums Mr M 
had paid.  L&G said Mr M should have disclosed hed been advised to cut down on his 
alcohol consumption when he applied for the policy.  Because he hadnt, L&G said hed 
made a careless misrepresentation, which entitled them to take the action they had.
Mrs M complained on behalf of the estate.  She said there was no evidence Mr M had been 
advised to reduce his alcohol consumption and the records L&G had relied on were made in 
the context of other issues about which Mr M had sought advice through his surgerys well 
person clinic.  
L&G didnt change their decision.  So Mrs M brought the estates complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded L&G didnt need to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.  She was satisfied that theyd dealt with Mr Ms misrepresentation in 
line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
which she said was fair.
Mrs M confirmed the estate didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the estates complaint.  I know my decision will be very 
upsetting for Mrs M and Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain my reasons.
Firstly, I note Mrs Ms comments on the investigators view include a complaint about the 
length of time L&G took to consider Mr Ms (and later his estates) claim.  Ive considered the 
correspondence carefully, but I cant see this complaint has been raised with L&G.  
Our service can only investigate complaints where the business complained about has had 
the opportunity to respond to it first.  So, if Mrs M wants to pursue this complaint on behalf of 
the estate, she will have to do so as a separate matter.
As our investigator said, where an insurer thinks a customer has made a misrepresentation, 
they need to deal with that in line with CIDRA.  CIDRA requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.  For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G say Mr M made a misrepresentation in his policy application, because he answered 
no to the question:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
When L&G received Mr Ms medical records, they noted his doctor had recorded that, in 
2008 and early 2009, he was consuming 50 units of alcohol per week, when the 
recommended maximum is 21 units.  A later record for the end of 2009 confirms he had 
reduced his alcohol intake to 25 units per week.
Mrs M doesnt accept Mr M answered the question inaccurately.  She says the notes were 
made in the context of advice her late husband sought for other medical issues and there is 
no evidence that advice included reducing his alcohol consumption.  She says the notes 
show hed reduced his consumption by the end of 2009  and that, by the time he applied for 
the policy, he drank very little.  And shes pointed out that the appointments at which Mr Ms 
consumption was recorded to be 50 units per week were nine and ten years before his 
application.
Ive thought very carefully about this.  Ive studied the notes.  They support Mrs Ms position 
that they were made in relation to a well person appointment for other issues.  But they do 
clearly show there was discussion about Mr Ms alcohol consumption, which (in the first two 
entries) was more than twice the recommended maximum amount.  
I find it very unlikely that no recommendation to reduce his consumption was made, either on 
the basis of consumption alone, or because alcohol intake can also impact the issue Mr M 
was seeking advice for.  And, while I agree with Mrs M that the notes confirm a substantial 
reduction in consumption by the end of 2009, I think its likely that followed the advice he 
received in the earlier appointments to cut down.  
And, while I accept the advice was given nine or ten years before the application was made, 
Im not satisfied its something that would have been quickly forgotten.  The notes show 
conversations with Mr M on three occasions in two years.  And they were in the context of an 
issue which had a significant impact on him and his family.  So, on balance, Im satisfied Mr 
M didnt answer the question accurately and made a misrepresentation in his application.
And Im satisfied that Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.  L&G have provided 
their underwriting criteria which Ive considered, although I cant share it with Mrs M.  The 
criteria show that, had the question been answered yes, they would have declined to cover 
Mr M.L&G have categorised the misrepresentation as careless.  I think thats fair.  Mrs M has said 
that Mr M took care with answering the questions and his answers were an accurate picture 
of his habits of the time.
I understand what Mrs M has said.  But the question didnt just ask about the position when 
Mr M bought the policy  it asked if hed ever been advised to reduce his alcohol intake.  I 
accept memories fade over time.  Ive explained above why I think Mr M made a 
misrepresentation.  I think the passage of time means its fair to say the misrepresentation 
was careless.  But its not enough for me to say no misrepresentation has been made.  
I note L&G have cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums paid, which is in line with 
CIDRA.  I dont think they need to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs Ms made about Legal 
and General Assurance Society Limited on behalf of the late Mr Ms estate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman