DRN-2672746
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled 
their claim and settlement offer following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P had buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs P.
Mrs P made a claim after water leaked from a burst waste pipe, damaging her bathroom and 
kitchen. Fairmead accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster (LA). However, Mrs P 
was dissatisfied with the time the LA was taking to progress her claim and she complained to 
Fairmead.
Fairmead appointed a second LA which took over two months after Mrs P first made her 
claim. Because some of the work to the kitchen wasnt covered in full, Mrs P obtained quotes 
for replacement of the kitchen and bathroom and Fairmead offered a cash settlement. Mrs P 
didnt agree with the amount offered and from here there was a lengthy exchange of 
information before reaching an agreed amount.
During this time, and due to personal circumstances, Mrs P stayed in her home rather than 
accepting an offer of alternative accommodation. She says Fairmead offered to pay a 
disturbance allowance (DA) at a set rate but failed to make payment. 
Mrs P complained to Fairmead about the delays; non-payment of the DA, and damage a 
skip caused to her driveway during the time it had been left there.
Mrs P decided to bring her complaint to our service. During our investigation, Fairmead 
offered Mrs P £135 for the damage to her driveway, and a little under £17,000 to settle her 
claim for the kitchen and bathroom repairs, which she accepted. It also offered £4000 DA, 
but Mrs P didnt think it was enough because it was less than the rate it offered originally.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint. She thought that while there had been 
unavoidable delays, Fairmead shouldve dealt with Mrs Ps claim promptly right from the 
start. For the delays, our investigator thought that Fairmead should pay £150 compensation 
to Mrs P. She didnt make any findings on the damage to the driveway or the settlement offer 
because Mrs P had already accepted both. But our investigator thought that Fairmead hadnt 
offered Mrs P enough for DA. Mrs P was without her kitchen for almost a year and our 
investigator agreed with Mrs P that Fairmead should pay at the rate it had offered. 
Fairmead didnt agree. It hadnt received any receipts or evidence from Mrs P for additional 
costs incurred while it was dealing with her claim. And it didnt think the amount proposed 
was a fair reflection of those costs for the time Mrs P was without her kitchen and bathroom.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint, but Ive reached a different decision to that of our 
investigator. I dont think DA is warranted for the full duration of the claim handling process. I 
realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, but Ill explain.
Firstly, I can see that Mrs P accepted Fairmeads offer to settle the claim for damage to her 
kitchen and bathroom. As that matter is resolved I wont be making a finding on it. Instead, 
Ill focus on the remaining issues which are still in dispute. 
Disturbance allowance (DA)
Mrs P says Fairmead offered her £10 per day, per adult while her claim was ongoing. 
Fairmead says DA isnt a requirement under the policy, but it offered £100 per week anyway, 
giving a total offer of £4000. 
Ive looked at the policy and DA isnt mentioned at all. The policy does provide for alternative 
accommodation if the property is deemed uninhabitable, but I can see that Mrs P declined 
that option, preferring to remain in her home. So its for me to decide whether the amount 
Fairmead offered is fair in the circumstances.
To begin with, its important to understand what DA is. While it isnt necessarily provided for 
in a policy, insurers recognise that sometimes the policyholder incurs additional costs for 
everyday living which they wouldnt have incurred if the insured event hadnt happened. It 
isnt a payment for the inconvenience of living at home while the claim is being dealt with, or 
while work is being done. Its a payment to cover costs over and above those that the 
policyholder usually incurs, and it is considered a short-term payment while the policyholder 
adjusts. It is not instead of alternative accommodation and sometimes insurers pay DA as 
well as alternative accommodation. Thats because a policyholder might be paying more 
than usual for travel if their temporary home is further from work, or meals if they are in a 
hotel.
Insurers can reasonably ask for evidence of the additional costs, although the policyholder 
wouldnt necessarily be expected to provide a receipt for every single additional cost. For 
that reason, an industry standard of £10 per day per adult is considered fair.
Here, Mrs P says Fairmead told her it would pay the industry standard rate but then only 
offered her £100 per week. She thinks Fairmead should pay what it originally offered. Ive 
considered the evidence carefully, but I havent seen anything to show that Fairmead offered 
DA at the industry standard rate. That said, it is the standard so Id expect it to pay that rate. 
But, I dont think its reasonable to expect Fairmead to pay DA at that rate for almost a year. 
As I said earlier, its a short-term allowance for costs over and above Mrs Ps usual costs. 
Looking again at the evidence, I see that Mrs P chose not to move into alternative 
accommodation, and I understand why. The second LA logged notes of a conversation with 
Mrs P, when she declined accommodation, during which it checked whether she had 
cooking and washing facilities. She said she did, and Ive seen similar evidence in her 
conversations with our investigator. There will undoubtedly have been some additional costs 
while she adjusted to working around the damage, but I dont think its fair to say that 
adjustment wouldve continued for 51 weeks.
Fairmead offered £4000 which equates to £100 per week for 40 weeks. This is the length of 
time from the second LA taking over the claim to the date Mrs Ps kitchen claim was 
completed. The notes Ive seen from much earlier in the claim show that Fairmead agreed 
DA was warranted for one week while the kitchen was replaced. At the industry standard rate, its payment wouldve been £210 (£10 x 3 adults x 7 days). So, while Fairmeads offer 
isnt based on the industry standard, its significantly more than Id expect. I should point out 
that it offered that amount without requiring Mrs P to provide any evidence of additional 
costs.
Mrs P is asking for DA for the full claim period at the standard rate, which comes to £10,710 
(£10 x 3 adults x 7 days x 51 weeks). She thinks Fairmead should pay that amount because 
its the rate it offered her. That may be the case, but I havent seen any evidence that it 
offered to pay for more than one week, so its possible there was a misunderstanding. While 
I realise it wont have been pleasant living with the after effects of the waste water leak, in 
the absence of any evidence to persuade me that Mrs P incurred additional costs in excess 
of £10,000 over and above her usual costs, I wont be asking Fairmead to increase its offer 
from £4000.
Delays
Theres no dispute that Fairmeads first LA didnt progress Mrs Ps claim as quickly as it 
shouldve done. It was after the second LA took over, and four months had passed, before 
her home was dried out. Because of the delay and the fact that waste water had leaked into 
Mrs Ps home, additional repairs were necessary. For example, Ive seen in the LA notes 
that the flooring couldve been sanitised if it hadnt been left so long. Because of the delay, 
the contamination had penetrated the flooring to the extent that it needed replacing. 
Fairmeads delay moving the skip from Mrs Ps driveway caused damaged. I accept that it 
paid £135 for the damage, which covers Mrs P for her loss, but its damage which shouldnt 
have happened. 
Mrs P asked Fairmead to pay vet bills for her dogs which became ill after the leak. Again, if 
Fairmead had handled the claim promptly, Mrs Ps dogs might not have become ill, and 
thats another cost it might not have needed to cover. 
These examples show the type of inconvenience and upset Fairmeads delays caused Mrs 
P, and I dont think it was acceptable to delay responding to a claim for waste water which 
had contaminated her kitchen and bathroom. I realise that she chose to remain at home, but 
had she known there would be delays, she may have made a different decision.
Our investigator thought Fairmead should pay Mrs P £150 for the delay in handling her 
claim, but I dont think that goes far enough. In light of the additional trouble and upset the 
delays caused, I think compensation of £500 is more appropriate. 
In summary, Im sorry to hear about the situation Mrs P found herself in following the waste 
water leak. But I think Fairmead handled the claim itself fairly once it had been passed to the 
second LA and started progressing. I dont think it would be fair to ask Fairmead to pay over 
£10,000 for DA without any evidence that Mrs P incurred additional costs not already paid by 
Fairmead.
I said I was intending to:
uphold the complaint and I am minded to require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
pay a total disturbance allowance of £4000 to Mrs P, and
pay her £500 compensation by way of apology for the trouble and upset caused by 
its delays handling her claim.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision and Mrs P said she understood why Id reached 
my decision, although she just wanted to reiterate some of her key points. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs P wanted to bring those particular points to my attention. She 
explained how her specific circumstances led to the decision to remain at home, despite the 
disruption caused by the escape of water. 
But, as Mrs P hasnt provided anything further for me to consider, or asked for any changes 
to the outcome, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
pay a total disturbance allowance of £4000 to Mrs P, and
pay her £500 compensation by way of apology for the trouble and upset caused by 
its delays handling her claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman