DRN-3221972
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Lynden Ltd trading as FindYourPPI (LL) and the settlement fees 
shes been charged following two successful claims for mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs W instructed LL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against lender B on her behalf. Mrs W 
signed several letters of authority (LOA) which confirmed her agreement for LL to act as her 
representative in these claims. And by signing these LOAs, Mrs W also agreed to be bound 
by the terms and conditions of the agreement she was entering into.
LL submitted a claim to lender B on Mrs Ws behalf. And this submission eventually led to 
two successful PPI claims in August and September for £4,691.12 and £4,347.12. So, after 
being made aware of these offers, LL invoiced Mrs W for their settlement fees. But Mrs W 
was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint. Mrs Ws husband Mr W has also been 
liaising with LL through the complaint process. Ive referred to them both as Mrs W 
throughout the decision for ease of reference. This is because the successful claims were 
made in the sole name of Mrs W, so she is LLs customer for this complaint, not Mr W.
Mrs W wasnt happy with the refunds shed been provided by lender B. She noted the refund 
were based on averages, rather than the actual PPI premiums she paid. So, she didnt think 
LL had acted fairly by accepting these offers and not challenging them further. Mrs W also 
didnt think the settlement fees LL invoiced her for were reasonable for the amount of work 
LL had completed. So, Mrs W didnt think she should pay the full fee LL were invoicing her 
for.
LL responded and didnt agree. They explained Mrs W hadnt provided any evidence of her 
PPI payments when she returned her PPI questionnaires. So, they assumed she had no 
evidence to provide. And as lender B confirmed they didnt have any record of the accounts 
she held either, they thought it was fair to accept lender Bs offer as it was calculated in line 
with the industry regulators guidelines. So, they thought their decision to invoice Mrs W was 
fair. And they thought the way theyd calculated the settlement fee was reasonable as it fell 
in line with the terms and conditions Mrs W had agreed to. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs W didnt agree. She disputed the fairness of the 20%+VAT fee and made several 
comments about LLs ownership. LL maintained their view that theyd acted fairly but did 
offer to reduce the outstanding fees by 25% as without prejudice offer for a period of time. 
Mrs W didnt accept this and referred her complaint to us. So, this offer was withdrawn.
LL also decided to escalate Mrs Ws non-payment of fees through the small claims court. 
Mrs W issued her intention to defend this and issued her own counter claim. But this process 
hadnt been completed when our investigator received the complaint and our investigation 
continued. LL confirmed they were awaiting a date to attempt mediation at that time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought LL acted 
reasonably when deciding the offer lender B made was fair. And he thought the settlement 
fees LL invoiced Mrs W were calculated in line with the terms and conditions Mrs W entered 
into. So, he didnt think LL needed to do anything more.
Mrs W didnt agree. She maintained her view that the fees LL invoiced were excessive. She 
recognised fees were capped to 20%+VAT but she didnt think this meant it was fair for 
businesses to set their fees at this level or that the amount of work they completed wasnt 
taken into consideration. And she maintained her view that LL shouldve done more to 
challenge LLs offer.
There was also allegations made about a separate company who Mrs W believed were 
linked to LL. LL responded to these allegations to us directly and explained any issue Mrs W 
or her husband held with the other company was a separate issue with that company 
directly. As Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs W. I think its clear Mrs W 
is unhappy with both the PPI refund she received, and the settlement fee LL are invoicing 
Mrs W for. So, as Mrs W thinks she is owed more by way of a refund, and should pay less in 
a fee, I can appreciate why she thinks shes been unfairly treated and left at a financial loss. 
But for me to say LL have acted unfairly, and that the fees theyve charged should be 
reduced or waived entirely, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that the 
refund Mrs W received didnt result from the work LL completed. Or, if it did, that the 
settlement fees LL have invoiced for arent calculated fairly, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mrs W entered into. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mrs W has made comments about LLs 
ownership, and a potential relationship with another company, as part of her complaint and 
in response to our investigators initial view. These arent issues Im able to comment upon 
as they fall within the scope of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
to investigate. So, I wont address these any further within the decision. 
Im also aware LL submitted a claim to the small claims court. And Mrs W defended this and 
issued a counter claim. From my understanding, both parties are still awaiting a date to 
attempt mediation and so, a judgement has not yet been made. And because of this, Ive 
continued to issue a decision. But I must make it clear to Mrs W and LL that its not our 
services role to reverse or overturn a decision made by the courts. So, if the courts have 
made a ruling during the time this complaint has been waiting for a decision from our 
service, my decision wont supersede this and that judgement will remain in place.
Its not in dispute that Mrs W instructed LL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. 
And Ive seen LL submitted these to lender B, who upheld them and issued their offer letters 
to both Mrs W and LL. So, Im satisfied the offers included within these offer letters resulted 
from the work LL completed.But Mrs W doesnt think LL have acted fairly by accepting the refund offers proposed by 
lender B without challenging them first. Ive seen in the offer letters sent by lender B which 
confirm the refunds were based on an average as they were unable to find any record of the 
actual premiums Mrs W paid. This falls in line with the FCAs guidelines on how businesses 
should calculate PPI refunds in this scenario so I cant say LL shouldve automatically 
challenged this.
Lender B also explained theyd be willing to recalculate if Mrs W was able to provide 
evidence of the actual premiums she paid. But I cant see that Mrs W provided this evidence 
to LL before they submitted the claims or offered to provide it to LL or lender B after the offer 
letters were sent. So, without any evidence to suggest otherwise, I think its likely Mrs W 
doesnt have the evidence available. And without, I dont think lender B would be able to 
recalculate the offer. So, I cant say LL have acted unfairly by not challenging the offers 
lender B have made to Mrs W.
I recognise Mrs W thinks LL shouldve asked lender B to evidence their inability to find a 
record of the premiums she made. But this isnt something Id expect LL to do as I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to ask a business to provide evidence of a negative. So, from the 
evidence Ive seen, I think LL have acted fairly by accepting lender Bs offers which were 
calculated in line with the FCAs guidance and I cant say they acted unfairly by failing to 
challenge them
And because of this, I think it was reasonable for LL to invoice Mrs W for their settlement fee 
based on the refund lender B proposed. Ive seen the invoices LL sent and they equate to 
20%+VAT of the gross refund Mrs W received. And this falls in line with the fee Mrs W 
agreed to pay when she initially instructed LL, outlined in the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. So, I dont think these invoices were unfair.
I recognise Mrs Ws comments about the amount of the settlement fees in comparison to the 
work LL completed. And I understand why Mrs W may argue that these seems excessive. 
But crucially, LLs fees arent based on the amount of work they completed. They are instead 
based on a percentage of the total refund a customer receives and they work on a no win 
no fee basis. So, the greater the refund a customer receives, the greater LLs settlement 
fee. And I think the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs W entered into makes this 
reasonably clear.
They also make it clear that the fee would be 20%+VAT. And this fee falls within with the fee 
cap imposed by the FCA. While I appreciate Mrs Ws comments surrounding the unfairness 
of a LL charging a fee at the highest limit of the cap, I think LL made it reasonably clear to 
Mrs W this is what they would do if her claims were successful. If Mrs W was unhappy about 
this, she had the option to choose another company to complete the work for a lower fee or 
complete the work herself. But she didnt. So, as LL completed the work on Mrs Ws behalf, I 
think its fair for them to charge the 20%+VAT fee as it was made clear to Mrs W at the 
outset and it falls within the fee cap imposed by the FCA. And because of this, I dont think 
LL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for. And I appreciate this is unlikely to 
change her opinion on the service she received from LL or the fairness of the fees shes 
being chased for. But for me to say LL should do something more, Id need to be satisfied 
theyve done something wrong. And I dont think they have on this occasion.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Lynden Ltd trading 
as FindYourPPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman