DRN-3032077
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he called the National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
automated (premium bond) prize checker line, his call was immediately disconnected.
Mr H also complains about how his complaint about the same was handled by NS&I.
What happened
Mr H received a text message from NS&I on 3 March 2021 to say that he had won the 
monthly prize draw and that he should contact the automated prize checker line to find out 
how much hed won. 
Mr H called the automated prize checker line at 11.23am, but the line was immediately 
disconnected.
Mr H then telephoned NS&I directly (at 11.25am) and got through to someone who 
confirmed hed won £25. In this call Mr H asked to raise a complaint regarding his call to the 
automated prize checker line earlier in the day being disconnected. Unfortunately, after 
several minutes, this call got disconnected.
Mr H telephoned NS&I directly for a second time (at 11.44am) and spoke to a different 
member of staff. This member of staff agreed to log a complaint for Mr H about his call to the 
automated prize checker earlier in the day being disconnected, which was done.
On 23 April 2021 NS&I issued Mr H with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL NS&I apologised to Mr H that he was unable to use its automated prize checker line 
(although it was unaware of any problems with it at the material time) and that there are 
alternative channels he could use to check his winnings in the future. It also apologised for 
the time it had taken to issue its FRL.
Mr H was unhappy with NS&Is response to his complaint so he referred it to our service for 
investigation where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator allocated 
Mr Hs complaint came to the view that it shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said having 
apologised, NS&I needed to do nothing further in respect of Mr Hs complaint that his call to 
its automated prize checker line got disconnected. She also said that having issued its FRL 
on 23 April 2021 NS&I had handled Mr Hs complaint within appropriate timescales.
Mr H didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I agree with the investigators view and there is very little I 
can usefully add to what has already been said.
I can appreciate that Mr H would have been frustrated when his call to NS&Is automated 
prize cheeker was disconnected, but Im not persuaded he suffered a level of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of this disconnection that would warrant the making of a financial 
award by me. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that having apologised to Mr H for his 
call to the automated prize checker line being disconnected, NS&I need do nothing further. 
I also appreciate that when Mr H called NS&I directly (to verify his prize winnings and to 
raise a complaint) he had to call twice, because his first call to it got disconnected. I also 
appreciate that Mr H might have liked a written response to his complaint sooner than he 
received one and to have not had to wait to be connected to NS&I for as long as he had to.
Handling complaints isnt a regulated activity in and of itself. But notwithstanding this fact, I 
think that in the particular circumstances of this case its worth me saying that Im satisfied 
that NS&I did nothing wrong in its handling of Mr Hs complaint and that its FRL was issued 
within eight weeks of him first complaining to it on 3 March 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman