DRN-3798670
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) declined their 
claim for roof damage following a storm. They are also unhappy about the standard of 
communication.
Mr and Mrs H were joint policyholders for the buildings and contents insurance with RSA. 
For ease of reading and because he brought the complaint, Ill refer to just Mr H throughout 
my decision.
What happened
Following a well-publicised storm, Mr H noticed that hip tiles had fallen from his roof, 
breaking more tiles on the lower roof. He also saw that some other tiles had slipped. Mr H 
claimed under his policy and RSA arranged for a surveyor to inspect the roof. RSAs letter to 
Mr H said that he could make his own arrangements for repairs up to £1,500, otherwise RSA 
would go ahead with the surveyor appointment.
The surveyor attended four weeks after Mr H made his claim. RSA said its surveyor told Mr 
H at the time that the damage wasn't covered under the policy because the main cause was 
mortar deterioration and wear and tear. Mr H disputes that the surveyor told him the claim 
was declined.
Mr H emailed RSA to ask about his claim outcome and he asked for a copy of the surveyors 
report. RSA didnt reply. Mr H sent a further email asking for the report and also raising a 
complaint, but RSA didnt reply. So, he brought his complaint to this service.
Following contact from this service, RSA sent its final response letter to Mr H. RSA said its 
surveyor reported that the mortar had deteriorated and there was evidence of a natural 
breakdown in material. Further, there was evidence of previous failed repairs and damage 
which was likely to have been present for a while given the overall condition of the roof.
RSA declined the claim relying on the policy exclusions of:
Faulty workmanship, defective design, the use of defective materials or damage caused 
by any of these.
6. Existing and deliberate damage
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind occurring, or arising from an event 
occurring, before the insurance period starts or caused deliberately by the insured.
9. Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or 
resulting from wear and tear or anything that happens gradually
Maintenance: Your policy does not cover you for the cost of gradual deterioration  It is 
a condition of the policy that you keep your property in good order and take steps to avoid 
loss or damage. 
However, RSA confirmed that the damage to the lower roof, where the hip tile had fallen and 
broken the tiles, was covered under the accidental damage element of the policy. RSA 
apologised to Mr H for its surveyors mistake in respect of this part of the claim and 
confirmed its settlement offer. Further, RSA apologised for not replying to Mr Hs requests 
for the surveyors report and for not having a record of his emails. It offered him £100 by way 
of apology, but Mr H didnt think that was enough.
To resolve his complaint, Mr H wanted RSA to settle his full claim for over £5,000 and 
confirm the outcome of its investigation into the failed responses to his emails.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that RSA made a mistake by 
declining the accidental damage claim, and that RSA failed to reply to Mr Hs emails. But our 
investigator thought RSA had done enough to put matters right by accepting the accidental 
damage claim, and with its offer of £100 by way of apology.
Mr H remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Mr Hs claim was for storm damage, so Ive considered the following three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
The answers to the first two questions arent in dispute. There was a well-publicised, named 
storm and the damage is consistent with that which may be seen after a storm. So, Ive 
focused on the final question.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Theres no dispute that the hip tiles came down in the storm and caused damage to the tiles 
on the lower roof. But RSAs surveyor said the main cause of the damage was deterioration 
of the mortar and natural breakdown (wear and tear). Mr H disagrees because he said his 
roof was in good condition, evidenced by a survey completed when he bought the house 
some years earlier.
My role here is to decide, based on the evidence available and the balance of probability, 
whether it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline the claim for the reasons it gave. 
RSA provided photos of the damage and the rest of the roof. Its description of the 
deteriorated mortar, and pre-existing repairs is evident in those photos. The photos show 
that mortar is missing in places along the upper roof tiles, and RSAs description of the 
spores and weathering is consistent with that seen. Ive also listened to the audio report 
prepared by the surveyor at the house on the day of the inspection, which confirms the same 
findings. Although Mr H said the roof was in good condition, I havent seen any evidence to contradict 
that which RSA supplied. So, on balance, Im satisfied that RSAs decision to decline the 
claim for storm damage was fair and in line with the policy exclusions it quoted.
Although the surveyor said the lower roof damage wasn't covered, RSA agreed there was 
cover under the accidental damage part of the policy. It apologised to Mr H for its mistake 
and confirmed the settlement of just over £300 for the repairs. Mr H said the full repairs 
would cost over £5,000 and he said RSA had previously offered him £1,500.
Ive looked at the quote for the roof repairs which Mr H provided but theres no breakdown of 
what the work would be. The quote describes the work as Extensive roof repairs and 
includes the cost of scaffolding. Ive accepted that RSA fairly declined cover for the two hip 
tiles, and the other two slipped tiles are consistent with failed repairs. So, I consider it 
unlikely that the remaining accidental damage would be classed as extensive. I see no 
reason to ask RSA to settle the full quote of over £5,000.
Although Mr H said RSA previously offered him £1,500, I dont agree. Its clear that RSA 
provided the figure as an upper limit for Mr H to have the work done himself without a 
surveyor attending. But RSA would still need to assess the claim under the policy. Even so, 
Mr H opted to have a surveyor assess the damage so the upper limit of 1,500 became 
irrelevant in the circumstances. I see no reason for RSA to pay £1,500 towards the cost of 
repairs.
RSA made a mistake by saying the lower roof damage wasn't covered under the policy, and 
it accepted that it made the mistake. Further, RSA also accepted that it failed to 
communicate with Mr H. I see it offered £100 by way of apology for the mistakes it made 
and, having considered the impact Mr H described, I find its offer reasonable. I understand 
that Mr H remains unhappy that RSA hasnt explained why it didnt respond to his contact, 
particularly when he raised a complaint. Its not within my remit to decide on RSAs 
complaint handling, but I have taken into consideration its failure to respond to Mr Hs emails 
more generally. As Ive said, Im satisfied that RSA made a fair offer of £100 by way of 
apology.
Overall, its clear that RSA made mistakes in its handling of Mr Hs claim, but it 
acknowledged those errors and put matters right by accepting the claim for accidental 
damage and offering £100 by way of apology. The evidence supports RSAs conclusion that 
the damage was caused mainly by existing wear and tear, so I wont be asking it to accept 
the claim. Nor will I be asking RSA to pay more than it has already offered.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman