DRN-2414946
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for storm 
damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J noticed water leaking through the ceiling of a bedroom in an extension to 
their home. So, Mr J contacted UKI to make a claim for storm damage. 
Mr J arranged for a builder to quote for the work to repair the roof and the internal damage. 
UKI also sent a company to inspect the damage and Mr J explained what the builder had 
found and showed UKI a video of the damage recorded by the builder. UKI then declined the 
claim as it said the damage wasnt the result of a storm, but was instead due to wear and 
tear and issues with workmanship.
Mr J and Mrs J complained to UKI. When UKI replied, it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. However, it offered Mr J and Mrs J £50 compensation because of delays in 
progressing the claim.
Mr J and Mrs J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said that based on the evidence UKI had considered, from both Mr J and Mrs J and its own 
investigation, it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis of wear and tear. 
She also thought it was reasonable that UKI didnt cover the internal damage.
As Mr J and Mrs J did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, it isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions around the 
time that Mr J and Mrs J found the damage. Ive also looked at weather reports for that 
period and am satisfied that there were storm conditions. So, I think the answer to the first 
question is yes.
Ive thought about whether the damage is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
The damage was described as several cracked tiles, as well as others that had deteriorated, 
the flashing had lifted in places and also needed to be replaced due to it not being correctly 
joined to the upstand and there also werent any soakers. There was also an issue with the 
render above the flashing, which had cracked.
I dont think that the majority of the issues with the roof are typical of a storm, such as the 
cracked render or the issue with the flashing not being correctly joined to the upstand. But a 
storm could cause damage to tiles. So I think part of the damage could have been caused by 
a storm.
So, Ive also thought about whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
Looking at the evidence provided, overall I think it shows that the roof was showing clear 
signs of wear and tear. This is based on the evidence provided by Mr Js own builder and 
UKI. Im aware that after he submitted the evidence to UKI from his builder, Mr J then said 
that he thought it shouldnt all be taken into account as the builders main objective was to 
maximise his profit. Mr J also said that there were errors in his builders report, including 
when the builder said that there were issues with the flashing and that there were no 
soakers. Mr J said the builders report should only have been used for costing purposes. 
Mr J also said that the builders video shouldnt be considered and instead an independent 
review of the roof should be carried out. However, I think its reasonable that UKI took into 
account the evidence from the builder, as it gave an assessment of the damage to the roof. 
Im satisfied that UKI reviewed a range of information, which included visiting Mr Js home 
and assessing the roof itself and reviewed photos of the damage, as well as looking at the 
information from Mr Js builder. UKI then formed its own view on the most likely cause of the 
damage.
Given the overall condition of the roof, as identified through UKIs investigations, I think it 
was reasonable for UKI to conclude that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear 
and that the storm only highlighted this damage rather than causing it. Im aware that Mr J 
has provided information from the internet to show that a storm can result in tiles cracking. I 
dont think its in dispute that a storm could cause damage to tiles, but I havent seen 
anything that persuades me this was the main cause of the damage in this case.
Mr J also provided a building certificate showing that the extension was signed off by the 
council when it was built about 30 years ago. However, this doesnt persuade me that the 
roof couldnt have suffered wear and tear since that time or that there couldnt be any issues 
with the workmanship on the roof, such as with the flashing and the upstand. 
Im aware that Mr J has said that the policy didnt say that the roof needed to have soakers 
or an upstand with flashing and that he wasnt asked about this when he took out the policy. 
I wouldnt expect a policy to specify the precise construction of a roof. However, it is 
reasonable for an insurer to assess the construction of the roof when it looks at a claim, 
including if there are any issues with it, as UKI did here.
Mr J and Mrs J had accidental damage cover as part of his policy. So, Ive also considered 
whether the claim should have been accepted under this part of the policy. Having read the 
relevant terms and conditions, I think it was reasonable for UKI not to cover the damage to 
the roof under this part of the policy, as I dont think the damage met the definition of 
accidental damage. However, UKI decided it couldnt deal with the internal damage under 
this part of the policy because the cost of the work to repair the internal damage was less 
than the cost of the excess, which was £350. UKI provided the basis for how it decided the 
cost of the work and I think these costs were reasonable.
However, Mr J and Mrs J disagreed with UKIs costs and Mr J said he thought the work 
would cost about £1,100. Mr J based this on estimates provided over the internet, most of which showed the average national cost of carrying out the type of work required and the 
costs of buying paint and related materials from a DIY store. So, I think it was reasonable 
that UKI didnt accept these as a quote for the specific work that would need to be carried 
out to deal with any internal damage that formed part of this claim. However, UKI has said 
that if Mr J and Mrs J can obtain a quote, it would be willing to consider it, although the policy 
excess would still apply. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about the £50 compensation UKI offered for some delays during the claim. 
Looking at what happened, I think this amount was reasonable compensation.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do 
anything further. I think that UKI acted reasonably by turning down the claim for the storm 
damage and has explained its reasons for not covering the internal damage and what action 
Mr J and Mrs J can take for this part of the claim to be given further consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman