DRN-3370629
The complaint
A company, which Ill call H, has complained about certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds.
 
Ms B, as director of H, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
H made a claim under her policy for business interruption after it was affected by the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
The underwriters said the claim was not covered, as the policy only covers situations where 
H has been denied access to its premises as a result of a public authority incident, which 
must involve some physical damage to property occurring within a one mile radius of the 
premises. The underwriters said there has not been any such incident. The underwriters also 
said there is no cover for anything related to human diseases, so there was no cover for the 
losses H incurred. 
Ms B is very unhappy about this. She has made a number of points in support of her claim 
and complaint. Ive summarised her main points below: 
The policy terms are misleading.
She was refused access to her premises by a local authority, regardless of the extra 
wording to confuse and manipulate the claim. 
The Supreme Court, having decided the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Business Interruption Insurance test case, said that insurers should meet these 
claims and overruled all insurance policies, regardless of their wording.
She spoke to the FCA and it told her she was covered. 
Its only right that multi-million-pound profit insurance companies pay out in the 
event of a global pandemic. The point of insurance is to cover you for anything out of 
your own control that forces your business to close. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he determined that the underwriters were entitled to refuse the claim for the 
reasons they did. 
Ms B does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such an 
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Hs policy carefully. It includes cover for losses arising from the 
interruption of business as a result of certain specified events. The section most relevant to 
Hs claim and which it thinks should provide cover for the claim says:
We will indemnify Your Organisation up to the Indemnity Period specified in the
Schedule and in accordance with the terms of this Cover in respect of its:
Loss of Income and Increased Cost of Workingresulting solely and directly from 
an interruption to Your Organisations business caused by a BI Incident. For the 
purposes of this cover BI Incident means the following
Public Authority Incident: an incident occurring during the Policy Period within a one 
mile radius of Your Premises which results in a Denial of Access in access to Your 
Premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the government or 
any public authority, for more than 24 hours up to limit specified in the Schedule 
within any one Policy Period.
Denial of access is defined as: 
Denial of Access: the prevention of access to Your Premises because of Property
Damage (but excluding Property Damage which prevents or hinders the supply of
gas, electricity, water or telecommunications) within 1 mile of Your Premises up
to the limit specified in the Schedule.
Property damage is defined as being:
physical damage to, destruction of, or any loss of use of, any actual, physical or 
tangible property.
The underwriters say that loss of use of the premises would still require a physical element 
to it, given the context of the term, such as would make the premises physically unusable or 
unfit for purpose. I dont think I need to determine whether the loss of use would require 
physical damage because even if it doesnt, I do not think the loss of use was a result of an  
incident.  
I think the FCA test case is relevant to Hs claim, as clauses which required an incident to 
trigger cover were considered by the High Court and this part of the judgment was not 
appealed to the Supreme Court. 
 
The High Court said (at paragraphs 404-405) about the need for an incident: 
 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way 
 
...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse 
of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a 
one mile radius of the insured premises. 
 It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the disease 
as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident. 
 
 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court. Im not persuaded that there 
was an incident which prevented Hs access to its premises, and I dont believe that this 
clause of the policy would be considered ambiguous, or that it is inherently unfair. Therefore, 
I think the underwriters have acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause doesnt 
cover Hs claim. 
FCA and other matters
Ms B says the Supreme Court overruled all policy wording and the FCA also confirmed to 
her that her claim should be covered. 
The FCA does not determine complaints from policyholders about insurers and other than 
what she has said, Ive seen no other evidence of what was communicated between Ms B 
and FCA. However, it is my role to determine the outcome of this complaint about whether 
the underwriters have acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and, 
having considered everything, I think they have. 
The High Courts and Supreme Courts judgements of the FCA test case do not state that 
insurers cannot apply their normal policy terms but provided clarity on how some policy 
wordings should respond to claims arising from Covid-19, including the meaning of an  
incident, which Ive set out above.  
Ms B also says that the insurers should be covering claims such as this, as they can afford 
it. Although H might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, whether that is 
the case would still depend on the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont 
think Hs policy provides cover for its claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman