DRN-3557953
The complaint
Miss C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) delayed handling her claim 
under her buildings and contents insurance after her home was flood damaged.
What happened
Miss Cs home suffered major damage after the sewers backed up during a flash flood. She 
claimed under her buildings and contents policy and RSA accepted her claim.
RSA covered Miss C for alternative accommodation under her policy because her home was 
uninhabitable. However, Miss C complained that RSA didnt even complete the drying and 
stripping out work for months, delaying any possibility of her moving back into her home. 
She complained that the delays caused her distress because she was approaching the 
policy limit for alternative accommodation and RSA hadnt started the repairs, yet her 
neighbours had already moved back home.
RSA agreed that it couldve handled Miss Cs claim better. It said thered been some minor 
avoidable delays but, overall, the delay was because the claim was complex in nature. And 
while it couldve communicated better with Miss C, RSA said work was still happening in the 
background. In recognition of the avoidable delays and lack of communication, RSA paid 
Miss C £500 compensation. It also confirmed that although the limit for alternative 
accommodation was approaching, it would continue to pay until Miss C could move back into 
her home.
Miss C didnt think the compensation was enough, and she remained unhappy that RSA 
wasn't progressing her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. She agreed that there had been some 
minor delays and RSA hadnt communicated as well as it couldve done. But she thought the 
£500 compensation was fair in the circumstances. Our investigator explained to Miss C that 
our service couldnt address the issues raised after RSAs final response letter because it 
hadnt had an opportunity to address those first.
Miss C didnt agree. She thought £5,000 was a more appropriate compensation payment, 
and she complained that the delays were ongoing. Miss C was also unhappy that RSA 
couldnt explain why work hadnt started and she wanted our service to require RSA to carry 
out specific repairs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Miss C hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I wont comment on every piece of evidence, and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive 
considered the complaint as a whole and Ill only comment on specific evidence that helps 
explain my decision.
Alternative Accommodation
I understand Miss C was unhappy with the reminders she received from RSA about the 
policy limit for alternative accommodation. She said if RSA had arranged a 12-month 
tenancy from the start, the limit wouldnt have been reached so quickly. She was concerned 
about being without accommodation once she reached the limit.
Looking at the notes from when Miss C first made her claim, I see she arranged her own 
accommodation within the limits prescribed by RSA. That meant Miss C arranged a six-
month tenancy with the option to extend. 
While I can understand that she wouldve been concerned about the policy cover running 
out, RSA has since confirmed that it will continue to pay for the accommodation until Miss 
Cs home is habitable again.
I dont think it was wrong that RSA didnt want to commit to a longer-term tenancy as the 
extent of work required wouldnt have been known at that time. And I can see why it would 
err on the side of caution and commit only to six months with the option to extend. So, I think 
RSAs offer to continue to pay for the accommodation beyond the policy limit is fair in the 
circumstances. I see no reason to require anything more of RSA in respect of this point.
Compensation
Miss C doesnt think £500 compensation is enough in recognition of the significant 
inconvenience, delays and lack of communication during the year her claim has been 
ongoing. She thinks £5,000 is a more appropriate sum.
I can only consider the issues up to the date RSA issued its final response to Miss Cs 
complaint, which is around nine months after she first made her claim. 
Delays
I appreciate nine months is a long time, and Miss C will have been acutely aware of this 
because she was unable to move back to her home. But looking at the work notes, I can see 
that there was always something happening with her claim, and the delays between events 
were reasonable, individually. For example, a couple of weeks here and there to arrange for 
different contractors to investigate and prepare specialist reports, and time for RSA to 
consider next steps in between those reports. In particular, I note the environmental scientist 
who carried out the moisture survey identified that microbial growth wouldve contaminated 
other parts of Miss Cs home had drying being undertaken too soon. The result of that 
wouldve been a high risk of dry rot. I can understand why RSA wouldve wanted to take time 
to follow the correct process to ensure the correct work was done to restore Miss Cs home. 
So, I cant fairly say RSA caused significant or avoidable delays.
Communication
That said, it brings me to Miss Cs complaint that RSA didnt communicate with her properly. 
I can see that she chased updates on several occasions, and sometimes RSA didnt get 
back to her when it shouldve done. Had it done so, she wouldve been aware of the work 
taking place in the background and may have at least been reassured that RSA was 
handling and progressing her claim. Where I have seen delays in responding or arranging a specialist visit, RSA has also acknowledged that. So, I think its offer of £500 compensation 
is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Miss C will only see the overall delay of nine months with no discernible 
progress, but Im persuaded by the evidence that RSA hasnt delayed progress 
unreasonably. I see no reason to require RSA to pay more compensation than it already 
has.
Ongoing delays
I know Miss C is concerned about ongoing delays since she brought her complaint to our 
service. RSA refused our request to consider the ongoing delays in our consideration of this 
complaint. I understand Miss C has already raised a further complaint with RSA, therefore, 
Im unable to comment or make any requirement regarding this issue.
 
Commencement of repairs
Finally, I know Miss C wants an explanation from RSA about why work hasnt started, and 
shed like me to require RSA to complete the structural work in the manner recommended by 
its first surveyor. Looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA has given Miss C some 
explanations about the work. Her home is a ground floor flat and consideration needed to be 
given to the effect of the structure on upper floors, as well as ensuring Miss Cs home is 
repaired to the correct standard. RSA explained it was a complex claim, and new issues 
arose when its experts attended to their areas of work which required further investigation. 
Miss C is comparing the progress to that of her neighbours, who have already moved back 
home. While that may be the case, I cant fairly say that means RSA has caused 
unwarranted delays. The evidence indicates that its being cautious about the repair work so 
that Miss C doesnt encounter what wouldve been avoidable problems further down the line. 
With this in mind, I can see why RSA is looing at alternative methods of completing the work. 
I understand that Miss C just wants RSA to get on with it and shed like me to make that 
requirement. However, I dont have any expertise in structural repairs  nor am I required to 
 so it would be inappropriate for me to insist on RSA completing work which may not be the 
most appropriate in the circumstances.
In summary, its clear that Miss C has experienced a significant upheaval and I can see why 
that has caused her inconvenience and distress. But the evidence suggests that the flood 
damage itself, understandably, is the main cause of the upheaval. In the overall 
circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require RSA to pay more compensation 
than it already has, or progress work any sooner than is proper for ensuring a lasting repair 
to Miss Cs home.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman