DRN-3974945
The complaint
Mr V complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL), his pension provider, provided a poor 
level of service which led to him missing out on investment opportunities. 
What happened
Mr V has three pension policies with SWL. He said that in August 2021, after hed had to 
have a serious operation, he started to consider his pension options. Mr V said he was 
considering consolidating his pensions and adding further significant contributions to them, 
as he felt he may soon become unemployed. Mr V also said he wanted to transfer another 
pension fund worth around £10,000 into his consolidated policy. 
Mr V said he asked for the quote to include a 10%Tax-Free Cash (TFC) withdrawal. He said 
he tried, but failed, to do this online. So he then called SWL to ask for a personal quote for 
all three of his policies.
On 8 April 2022, SWL sent Mr V a letter about its stakeholder plan. 
Mr V said SWL sent an incorrect quote. So he called it again to tell it hed not got correct 
figures yet, and that the type of pension used in the quote wasnt what hed agreed to. He 
said he explained again the quote he wanted, including the TFC. And said he also told SWL 
that he was asking for a drawdown pension. Mr V said the SWL agent he spoke to correctly 
repeated back to him exactly what hed requested. 
On 5 May 2022, SWL sent Mr V a further letter. This said it was about its stakeholder again.
Mr V said SWL sent a second incorrect quote to him. He said it was exactly the same as the 
first incorrect quote. So he called SWL again. And also sent his request by email. Mr V said 
he spoke to a customer service manager who promised to call him back within 48 hours. But 
when this didn't happen, hed had to call him again. 
Mr V said SWL sent him a third incorrect quote. And told him hed have to start using secure 
messages. He felt this meant hed lost more time. Mr V said he also told SWL about his 
serious health issue. He raised a complaint.
SWL wrote to Mr V on 19 May 2022 to acknowledge his complaint.
On 20 May 2022, SWL wrote to Mr V to thank him for contacting it about accessing his 
pension benefits for one of his three plans. It said the current value of the plan was 
£15,627.68. The letter recommended the Pension Wise service. And directed Mr V to SWLs 
website to help him understand his options.
SWL wrote to Mr V again on 9 June 2022 to tell him it was still looking into his complaint.  
And on 7 July 2022, SWL issued an interim final response letter. This told Mr V that while 
SWL had been looking into his complaint, it hadnt yet completed its review. It said it 
expected to do so in 4 weeks. SWL referred Mr V to this service. 
Mr V brought his complaint to this service on 7 July 2022. He was unhappy with the 
customer service SWL had provided. He felt he couldnt make decisions about his financial 
future until he had the information hed requested from SWL. He also felt that the delay had 
caused stress. And had led to a financial loss, as his pensions had fallen in value since hed 
first requested the quote. 
Mr V also told this service that SWL wasnt prepared to give him any compensation. And that 
it couldn't re-create the quote he would've previously received. 
Mr V told this service that hed initially wanted to consolidate his three pensions into one 
policy and then to contribute £85,000 into that policy. But that he now thinks he will transfer 
away from SWL because of what's happened so far. Mr V also told this service that hed 
invested the £85,000 in ISAs and savings bonds instead of his pension.
Our investigator asked SWL for its business file. But it asked for the case to be put on hold 
until itd completed its attempt to resolve the case directly with Mr V. It said it would provide 
its file if, after itd completed its review of the complaint, Mr V still wanted this service to 
investigate it. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr V about SWLs request. Mr V told him that thered been next to 
no communication with SWL. So our investigator wrote to SWL to tell it he felt that Mr V had 
the impression that it was no longer trying to resolve his concerns. He said that if it still was 
attempting to do so, it should inform him.
Our investigator contacted Mr V again on 25 October 2022 to ask him if hed had further 
contact with SWL. And, if he had, if his complaint had been resolved. He also wrote to SWL 
the same day to again ask it for its file on the complaint. 
Mr V told this service that although the manager involved in his complaint had promised to 
contact him after further discussion with his team, hed had no reply from him or anyone from 
SWL.
SWL replied to our investigator on 28 October 2022. It said that its complaint manager had 
been in contact with Mr V since our investigators 16 September 2022 email. And that it was 
still working on the complaint. It said it would send its complaint file once it had concluded its 
investigations and communicated its final response to Mr V. But it couldnt give a timescale 
for this. 
Mr V again told our investigator on 1 November 2022 that hed not heard from SWL. But he 
agreed to give it the opportunity to settle the complaint directly. He said hed give it seven 
days to reach an agreement on the complaint resolution with him. And if it didnt, he wanted 
this service to continue to investigate the complaint. He also said his health had deteriorated 
further in the last month.
Our investigator wrote to SWL on 1 November 2022. He told SWL that Mr V had said hed 
had no recent contact with it. And that this contradicted what SWL had said about its 
complaint manager contacting Mr V. He asked SWL to provide its file on the complaint by 8 
November 2022 at the latest. And said that he would issue his view with the limited 
information we currently had on file if we didn't receive anything further by that date.
SWL wrote to our investigator on 3 November 2022, noting his comments. It said that its file 
notes suggested that itd spoken to Mr V about his complaint on 14 June 2022, 10 August 
2022, 21 July 2022 and 20 September 2022. So it didnt understand why Mr V had said he 
hadnt had any contact with anyone at SWL. It said its work on the complaint was still 
ongoing. And that it couldnt send this service its complete file until its complaint manager 
had completed their investigations and issued their final response.SWL wrote to this service on 15 December 2022 to tell us that it was still working towards a 
resolution on the complaint. But that the quotations Mr V had requested had been issued 
that day for two of his three policies. It said that once the quote for the final policy had been 
issued, its complaint manager would consider the impact of the delay on Mr V. 
Our investigator asked Mr V on 22 December 2022 whether hed received the quotes SWL 
said itd sent. But he didnt receive a response. So on 11 January 2023 he called Mr V to ask 
him if he still wanted us to investigate his complaint. Mr V said he did. 
Mr V said he kept receiving quotes with 25% TFC included, rather than the 10% hed 
requested. And with the wrong pensions. He said that his fund values had fallen because of 
the delays and he couldnt take any action. He felt hed lost around £5,000 because of 
SWLs delays. And that he now intended to leave his policies where they were and wait for 
the funds to go back up in value. 
On 11 January 2023, Mr V told this service hed received all of the information hed 
requested from SWL now. And on 24 January 2023, he provided some further valuation 
information for his three policies to this service. These showed that his three pensions had 
fallen in value since his August 2021 request for the quote.
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint on 27 January 2023. He noted that as 
SWL had been unable to provide the complaint file, hed had to rely on information primarily 
provided by Mr V.  He felt the complaint should be upheld. And that as SWL had sent Mr V 
incorrect information, and had failed to respond to his requests and delayed its responses, 
he felt it should give him £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused.
Our investigator didnt consider that he could uphold Mr Vs complaint about the financial 
losses he said hed suffered due to SWLs delays. This was because he hadnt crystallised 
or transferred his funds.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigator. He felt this service could look into the missing 
evidence and obtain proof of his fund values at certain times. He said most of the information 
hed provided had been given to him over the phone. He said hed call SWL and ask if for his 
fund values on the dates he spoke to it. He also queried whether his latest policy statements 
would help his complaint. Mr V felt that the minimum financial loss he should be awarded 
was the decrease in the values of his policies due to the delays SWL had caused. 
Our investigator told Mr V that this service could only consider crystallised losses. He said 
this meant, for example, that if Mr V had moved his pensions to another provider, we would 
then have a date where we could compare the difference in performance and that would 
allow us to confirm any losses. But because nothing had changed, we couldnt confirm that 
SWL were responsible for any losses Mr V felt hed suffered. 
Mr V provided further policy values, which showed that his pensions had continued to fall in 
value. Our investigator said that he still couldnt consider any financial loss Mr V felt SWL 
had caused because his pensions had remained invested with SWL, so no loss had been 
crystallised.
SWL accepted our investigators view. And made a payment of £650 to Mr Vs bank account 
for the: upset and inconvenience you have experienced.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that hed been forced to leave the funds 
invested while he was waiting for the quote hed asked for. He said that if hed been given 
the correct quote, he couldve made his decision on how to combine the three SWL funds, and add the additional money he wanted to contribute to the combined policy.
Mr V also said that while he agreed that pension values did go up and down, he felt that if 
SWL had provided the quote hed requested in a sensible amount of time, the values of his 
funds wouldve been far greater than now. He also felt that once hed obtained the historical 
values of his funds hed asked SWL to provide, this service might be able to consider his 
fund losses. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I consider that the £650 compensation payment 
SWL has already paid Mr V is reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. And I 
agree with the investigator that this service cant uphold Mr Vs complaint about financial 
losses as he hasnt crystallised or transferred his funds. I know this will be disappointing to 
Mr V. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr V feels that SWLs failure to provide the information he requested in a timely fashion led 
to a financial loss. In accepting our investigators view, SWL has accepted it didnt provide 
the requested information on time, and agreed to pay Mr V £650 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
I now need to decide if I consider that SWL is responsible for any financial loss. And if the 
compensation our investigator recommended is fair and reasonable under the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
I asked Mr V to provide further evidence to help me with my decision. I asked the following 
question:
During a call with our investigator on 26 August 2022, you told this service that [SWL] 
wasnt prepared to give you any compensation. And that it couldn't re-create the quote you 
would've previously received.  If it helps, you also referenced this in your 16 September 
2022 call with this service, when you said that youd been sent an FRL, but you didn't agree 
with the answer. You said youd send the letter in but we havent received it. You 
reconfirmed this point in your 25 October 2022 email to this service: They have contacted 
me saying no to any form of compensation.
Mr V said hed looked through the information he had, and had asked SWL to re-send the 
emails and letters theyd previously sent to him. He said the emails had been deleted by 
SWL.
Mr V told this service that hed asked SWL for historical values of his three plans  3 or 4 
values for each year, as he wanted it for evidence. But that itd sent him the wrong 
information. 
Mr V shared a lot of the documentation SWL had sent him over the last few months, 
identifying where it wasnt what hed asked for.
I also asked Mr V to give me further information about why hed told our investigator that 
while he agreed that pension values did go up and down, he felt that if SWL had provided 
the quote hed requested in a sensible amount of time, the values of his funds wouldve been far greater than now. 
Mr V said he only had limited information, because SWL hadnt sent him the information hed 
requested. But that the documents hed shared with this service showed the change in his 
policies values. 
As Mr V said he was still waiting for the information hed requested from SWL, our 
investigator emailed it to ask it for the fund values for Mr Vs three plans dating back from 
August 2021 to the present in 6-month intervals.
Im grateful to Mr V for the additional evidence hes provided this service. However, I dont 
consider that any further historical fund value information on his SWL plans would help with 
my decision. 
I first considered whether SWL was responsible for any financial loss for Mr V. He told this 
service that he wanted to make one of the following choices after hed got the requested 
information: 
- to go into drawdown with his SWL pensions whilst taking 10% TFC, or 
- to consolidate his pensions with SWL and those with another provider with SWL.
Mr V told this service that he first asked SWL for information on his policies in August 2021 
and that he only received all the information he needed at the start of 2023. SWL hasnt 
provided any contrasting information about the timeline here. 
Mr V said that if hed had all the information hed asked for in a reasonable time, he wouldve 
probably consolidated all his pension funds with SWL. And that he wouldve added £85,000 
in cash contributions in 2021. 
Mr V hasnt been able to provide any other evidence, apart from his testimony, that confirms 
this is what he wouldve done, or when he wouldve taken those actions. Im not surprised 
that this is the case, because it appears that Mr V wanted further information so that he 
could firm up his decision about what he did next. 
Im satisfied that Mr V wanted more information from SWL in August 2021. But I have no 
way of knowing what he wouldve done if hed actually received the information he wanted. 
And in any event, although its clear that it took too long for SWL to provide the requested 
information, Im not persuaded that Mr V couldnt have carried out the actions he said he 
mightve taken without that information. I say this because I dont consider that an up-to-date 
fund value was necessarily needed for a potential consolidation. This is because Im 
satisfied that Mr V wouldve received the correct fund values in the consolidation process. 
Therefore I cant fairly say that SWLs failure to provide the information Mr V had asked for 
prevented him from consolidating his pensions. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr V asked SWL for any transfer forms, or asked it how he could 
invest £85,000. This may have been relatively difficult to achieve in any event, unless Mr V 
had carry forward, given the standard maximum someone can contribute in any one tax 
year into a pension fund is £40,000.
Mr V told this service that, as he hadnt got the information from SWL hed felt he needed, 
hed invested the £85,000 in ISAs and savings bonds instead of his pension.
Ive been provided with no evidence that Mr V has been financially disadvantaged by the investment he made instead, as I have no detail on those investments. However, as I noted 
before, Im not persuaded that the delayed information Mr V had requested prevented him 
from making any pension contributions he felt he wanted to make.
So, while I acknowledge that Mr V feels hes made a financial loss of at least £5,000 
because he didnt get the requested information in good time, I cant fairly agree. And I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
I next considered the distress and inconvenience SWLs failure to provide the information Mr 
V requested in a timely fashion caused.
Although its unclear which information that SWL sent Mr V was incorrect, SWL accepted our 
investigators recommendation to pay Mr V £650 compensation for the delay and for its 
failure to return phone calls when it said it would. 
From what Ive seen, Mr V had to wait from August 2021, when he first requested 
information on his three plans, to January 2023, when he said hed received it. This is clearly 
unreasonable. SWL hasnt told this service why it couldnt process Mr Vs request sooner. 
Mr V has also had serious health problems, which he had made known to SWL, during the 
period hes been waiting for his complaint to be resolved. Under these circumstances, I 
wouldve normally expected a business to handle any request from Mr V as quickly as it 
could, so as not to cause him any further concerns. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator that SWL should pay Mr V £650 
compensation. I say this because I consider SWLs failure to provide the requested 
information, or to return calls when it said it would, has led to distress and inconvenience 
over a prolonged period of time. And the fact that this happened when Mr V had serious 
health issues should clearly also impact the amount of fair compensation required. 
I uphold the complaint, for the reasons Ive given above.
Putting things right
As Scottish Widows Limited has already paid Mr V the £650 compensation I require, it 
doesnt need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold the complaint. Scottish Widows Limited has 
already paid Mr V the recommended compensation, so I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman