DRN-4406771
The complaint
Mr A complains that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Premium Finance 
(CB) spelt his name incorrectly on his direct debit mandate, and that they cancelled his 
agreement. 
What happened
CB received an instruction from a broker in September 2022 to finance an insurance policy 
for Mr A, allowing him to make monthly repayments. CB sent a welcome email to Mr A with a 
copy of the agreement and direct debit mandate. 
Mr A contacted CB to explain that his surname was spelt incorrectly on the direct debit 
mandate. CB corrected this error in mid-September 2022. 
CB completed checks with credit reference agencies. They said there was a notice of 
correction on Mr As file which required a password, and so they tried to contact Mr A to 
obtain this. When they couldnt, the agreement was cancelled on 27 September 2022. 
Mr A complained to CB in October 2022 about the misspelling of his name on the direct debit 
mandate, and the cancellation of the agreement.  
CB sent Mr A their final response to his complaint in November 2022. They said they 
couldnt continue with the agreement without obtaining the notice of correction password, 
and theyd corrected the spelling of his surname. They didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He said he should 
be compensated for the failings by CB in spelling his name incorrectly, and in leaving his 
property uninsured when the agreement was cancelled. 
Our investigator gave her view that the incorrect spelling of Mr As name was unlikely to 
affect CB being able to collect a direct debit payment as all other details were correct, and in 
any event, CB had corrected the error in good time without Mr A suffering any financial 
detriment as a result of the mistake. She said shed seen evidence that there was a notice of 
correction on Mr As credit file, and that CB attempted to call Mr A on two occasions to 
obtain the password under this. She said CB didnt email Mr A in line with their procedures, 
and she felt it would have been fair for them to so do. She was persuaded that if CB had 
emailed Mr A, he wouldve provided the password, and so she asked CB to pay Mr A £50 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said the compensation wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CB provided Mr A with a running account credit agreement to allow him to pay his insurance 
premiums monthly. This is a regulated agreement, which means we can look into complaints 
about it. 
Ive seen the direct debit mandate that Mr A first received, and his surname is spelt 
incorrectly. I can see that CB corrected this error when Mr A asked them to. Im not 
persuaded that the incorrect spelling would have affected the direct debit collection, and I am 
persuaded that CB amended the spelling in good time and with no detriment to Mr A. 
Ive seen evidence that when CB completed their credit assessment for Mr As account, they 
found a notice of correction on his credit file that required them to ask Mr A for a password. 
Mr A has demonstrated that although this notice of correction was old, he was aware of the 
password and could have provided this to CB. 
I can see that CB called Mr A on two occasions, but they were unable to obtain the 
password from him as he was unable to discuss his account on both occasions. I think it 
wouldve been fair in the circumstances for CB to have emailed Mr A to ask him for this 
password prior to cancelling his agreement 
CB said it would have been their usual procedure to have emailed, but they didnt do so in 
this instance. 
Mr A was inconvenienced by having the agreement cancelled and having to arrange another 
method by which to pay his insurance premiums. He was also distressed by the possibility of 
having no insurance cover in place following the cancellation of the agreement. 
Putting things right
I cant compensate Mr A for something that could have happened. So, whilst I understand 
his strength of feeling on the matter, I wont be asking CB to pay compensation for the 
possibility that something could have happened to his property after the agreement was 
cancelled and before he made other arrangements to pay for his insurance. 
 
All things considered, Im satisfied that the £50 recommended by our investigator reasonably 
compensates Mr A for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Premium Finance must pay Mr A £50 compensation, if they havent already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman