DRN-2585928
The complaint
Miss G complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has settled a claim for a lost earring 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G lost an earring and made a claim under her home insurance policy. 
AXA agreed the claim and offered £750 which her representative said was the cost of 
replacing the one lost earring. The policy had a £200 excess which would be deducted from 
that amount. On further investigation, upon the request of Miss Gs representative, the offer 
was increased to £1,093.50, also subject to a £200 excess. AXA paid the settlement to 
Miss G along with £100 for delays whilst setting the claim.  
Miss G and her representative were unhappy with the valuation settlement and after AXA 
refused to increase the amount, the complaint was brought to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and said the settlement offer from AXA 
was fair. They thought AXA, and their agent, had acted fairly and reasonably when reviewing 
the information about the earring and coming to a valuation. Miss G and her representative 
remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs representative, who is a jeweller, has provided a lot of information about this 
complaint. I want to reassure them that I have read and carefully considered everything 
thats been provided. If I dont mention a particular point or answer a particular question its 
not because I havent considered it; I have. Ive summarised what happened which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. 
Im satisfied I understand the crux of the complaint which is that Miss G and her 
representative are unhappy with the valuation AXA have placed on the lost earring when 
settling the claim. 
When considering a claim settlement Id expect an insurer to consider all of the information 
provided and come to a valuation figure. Its not my role to say whether I personally think the 
valuation itself is correct, after all Im not a jeweller, rather its to decide if I think AXA acted 
fairly and reasonably on the information it had when coming to that valuation. This is an 
important distinction.
The original offer of £750 was based on the information provided by Miss Gs representative 
who is a jeweller. This amount came about because her representative had lost the second 
earring. This meant it couldnt be provided to AXA for validation as part of the claims 
process. An arrangement was made between Miss G and her representative where there 
would be a total cash settlement to her of £1,500 for both earrings. Her representative paid 
her £750, which ostensibly covered the cost of the lost earring, and they sought to recover 
the remaining £750 from AXA on Miss Gs behalf.  
AXA agreed to pay £750 to settle the claim. I think this was fair because Miss Gs 
representative is a jeweller and therefore in a position to provide an opinion on the valuation 
amount, which is what they did. AXA relied upon this when making the offer.  
Miss Gs representative asked that AXA pay them the settlement amount rather than to her. 
AXA said they wouldnt do this as the payment had to be made to the policyholder. They 
also explained that the claim was subject to a £200 excess. Miss Gs representative was 
unhappy with both of these things. They then said that £750 wasnt a fair retail price for the 
earring and asked AXA to reconsider the retail value which they thought was around 
£1,400/£1,500. 
Upon first glance it seems odd that Miss Gs representative was willing to accept £750 as a 
settlement if it was being paid to them directly, but when that wasnt possible they raised the 
value of the claim to around double that. Miss Gs representative said that the lower figure 
was based on the valuation as a manufacturer settling the issue with Miss G, but the higher 
retail valuation is what they were now seeking.
When settling claims an insurer usually has two options; replace the item or provide a cash 
settlement. In cases where a consumer asks for a cash settlement its usual that the amount 
paid is the value that the insurer wouldve paid to source a replacement. This is often lower 
than the retail value because insurers are often able to source items at a lower price. This is 
different to when an insurer is unable to source a replacement and offers a cash settlement. 
In those situations Id expect an insurer to pay the retail value as they are choosing to settle 
the claim that way. This way of settling claims is outlined in Miss Gs policy.
Here Miss Gs representative asked for a cash settlement. I therefore think it entirely fair that 
AXA offered to pay the £750 which Miss Gs representative initially agreed was a fair amount 
as a manufacturer, or trade, price. Had AXA maintained that stance I wouldve said they 
acted fairly as a cash settlement was requested by Miss Gs representative.
However AXA offered to reconsider the settlement amount at the retail price as Miss Gs 
representative asked them to do. This was even though I dont think they strictly had to do so 
under the policy terms. After looking at the information provided by Miss Gs representative 
AXAs agent, who specialises in jewellery claims, increased the settlement offer to £1,093.50 
which represents their assessment of the retail replacement cost.
Miss Gs representative has provided a lot of information about why they think the value 
should be higher. AXAs agent considered all of the information provided and maintained the 
offer of £1,093.50. 
It seems to me the issue here is a professional disagreement. Miss Gs representative thinks 
the value should be higher, but AXAs agent disagrees. Both are experienced in the valuing 
jewellery. AXAs representative is a large business with a lot of experience in the industry, 
and Miss Gs representative also has many years experience. 
Its not my place to say which professional opinion I prefer, rather it is to say if I think AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably when assessing the claim and applying the policy terms. And 
looking at everything Im satisfied they did. 
AXAs agent has considered everything provided by Miss Gs representative, which included 
information about the manufacturing process and setting technique. I havent seen that AXAs agent ignored any information, and Im happy they considered everything provided. 
Theyve simply come to a different professional opinion about the value. Im also happy that 
AXAs agent is experienced in this area and is able to give a professional opinion upon 
which they are allowed to rely. 
Of course the matter has been made more difficult as the second earring no longer exists for 
it to be validated by AXAs agent. In place of this they have valued the earring based on the 
details provided by Miss Gs representative. Its possible that had the second earring been 
available for validation then the valuation might be different, however this isnt the case, 
which is not the fault of AXA. 
Im also satisfied the £100 AXA paid for customer service delays is reasonable for what 
happened.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied that AXA acted fairly and reasonably 
when applying the policy terms and settling the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman