DRN-3202715
The complaint
Mr H complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
unaffordable lending.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr H as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
July 2019 £500 18 
months£114.28 £2,057.04 Loan sold and 
settled
When Mr H complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the loan. Our investigator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigator. It mainly said that Mr Hs credit report was 
positive on the whole and it didnt think the information it showed was sufficient for our 
adjudicator to say it provided the loan irresponsibly.
 
 So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Hs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
Loans 2 Go relied on an online check to verify Mr Hs declared income and recorded that 
it could rely on his minimum pay being around £1,687 per month. Alongside asking Mr H 
about his monthly expenses, Loans 2 Go also carried out its own credit checks to 
understand his credit history and current credit commitments. 
Like our investigator, I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that when Mr H 
applied for this loan the credit report it obtained for him showed that he had been 1 payment 
in arrears for the previous two months on a loan hed taken out less than 18 months earlier. 
This cost him £327 per month and he still owed £3,276. Despite what Loans 2 Go has said 
about not reading too much into an account that was just one month in arrears, I think this 
was a potential warning sign of financial difficulty. According to its affordability assessment, it 
looked like this loan shouldve been affordable for Mr H  yet the indications were that he 
had struggled to pay it and he had been unable to catch up with the contractual payment he 
missed. 
It was also apparent that Mr H had large balances outstanding on four credit cards and they 
were all approaching the account limits. Looking more closely at what its credit checks 
revealed, I think Loans 2 Go was able to see that a couple of these cards were long standing 
and Mr H had taken out a new credit card around 9 months or so earlier (with a balance of 
£1,241) as well as another within the previous 6 months which he appeared to have run up 
to within £130 of its £1,500 credit limit in that space of time.   
Loans 2 Gos checks showed that Mr H needed to pay around £591 in total each month in 
order to make meaningful inroads into repaying his credit cards and the loan - so it was 
evident that his debt repayments cost Mr H at least a third of his verified income. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think Loans 2 Go took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Hs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to 
lend, particularly as it hadnt recorded the loan purpose  so there was a serious risk that 
this loan would be adding to Mr Hs overall indebtedness whilst at the same time increasing 
the amount of his monthly repayments beyond a sustainable level. 
I agree with Loans 2 Go that a county court judgement outstanding from 2013 and an old 
settled default dont provide much useful information about Mr Hs current finances. 
But our adjudicator hadnt relied on these things particularly when she said that the 
indications were that Mr H wasnt managing his money well and he was already struggling 
financially. 
I agree with our adjudicator that all in all, the signs were that his finances were, in reality, 
under significant stress and his debt had become unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Mr H would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt Loans 2 Go saw Mr H 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr H needed to pay a 
significant portion of his income towards credit.
And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr H would 
likely struggle to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 24 month loan term.
I think this is borne out by other information Ive seen showing that Mr H continued to take 
out other borrowing, including a high cost unsecured loan from another provider just 
2 months after this loan which he then defaulted on. 
This clearly shows that he needed to borrow in order to be able to repay his existing credit 
commitments. 
To my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr H would struggle to maintain his credit 
commitments, including the repayments for this loan and its unsurprising that the 
payment arrangement soon broke down and the loan was subsequently sold on.  
Looked at overall, I cant reasonably say Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based 
on the information in front of it. I dont think Loans 2 Go was able to safely conclude that 
its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr H. So it shouldnt have provided it and 
Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.Loans 2 Go should buy back the outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then Loans 2 Go should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr H 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr H sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay. Loans 2 Go should not seek to recover any capital 
previously written off 
    whilst its fair that Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Loans 2 Go should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above 
to put things right for Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman