DRN-3330321
The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unreasonably refused his critical 
illness claim, instead voiding his policy altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation.  
What happened
Mr N applied for a Friends Life Critical Illness with Life Cover policy through an independent 
financial adviser alongside his partner, Miss W, in November 2015. Aviva is now responsible 
for the operation of the policy, and I will hereafter refer to the business as Aviva. 
The application was discussed during a call with the IFA, but Mr N says he wasnt able to 
complete all of the details without relevant information before him. The application was 
submitted but Mr N agreed with the IFA that he would send amendments to Aviva. 
On 10 November 2015, Aviva sent Mr N and Miss W a copy of the policy application. Mr N 
says they both sent their amendments to Aviva on 14 November 2015. 
On 12 November 2015, the IFA called Aviva to note the policy start date should be 13 
November 2015. Mr N and Miss Ws existing policy would be cancelled later that month. He 
also amended the sum assured down from £233,500 to £232,500 and added that Mr N had 
been diagnosed with high blood pressure in 2010.  
The IFA told Mr N and Miss W he had confirmed with Aviva that the policy had begun on 13 
November 2015.  
In March 2021, Mr N made a claim to Aviva for critical illness benefit, after he sadly suffered 
a heart attack and underwent surgery the previous month. Aviva therefore wrote to Mr Ns 
treating consultant for more information.  
On receipt of the report from Mr Ns consultant, Aviva noted a number of points about Mr Ns 
medical history which were not consistent with the policy application from November 2015. It 
therefore sought additional medical evidence from Mr Ns GP.  
On 1 July 2021, Aviva offered Mr N £250 for the time it was taking to provide an outcome on 
the claim. 
On 13 July 2021, it refused his claim. It said Mr N had answered no to a number of 
questions on his policy application, including questions about smoking, drinking, having 
certain conditions in the last five years and attending a hospital in the last five years. 
Aviva also said Mr N had also incorrectly answered subset questions about blood pressure 
(BP) treatment in the last twelve months and medical confirmation that it was under control.  
It said it understood Mr N had sent back the proposal confirmation of 10 November 2015 
with amended answers, but it never received it. And even looking at the amended answers 
he referred to now, there was information missing that was set out in his medical records.  
Aviva told Mr N that it accepted his actions were not deliberate. But, he had not given it 
accurate information in 2015. If he had done so, the application would have been postponed 
until all investigations were complete and the results known. Following this, Mr N would have 
been required to reapply by submitting a fresh application. Because of that, it couldnt now 
accept a claim. Instead the right outcome was to void the policy from the outset and refund 
Mr Ns policy premiums.  
Mr N appealed the decision. He said:
in October 2015 he was prescribed omeprazole  a type of treatment for heartburn;
though Aviva claimed otherwise, he had no tests or treatments outstanding in 
November 2015 when they commenced the policy;
the incident of March 2015 was a side effect to colchicine, a gout medication  not 
anything to do with his blood pressure;
he has discussed his medical records with his GP surgery and it has told him that at 
no time was he recorded as a user of tobacco;
he therefore answered Avivas question correctly;
had Aviva conducted its investigation in a fair and proper manner, the results would 
clearly show that - with the exception of episodes of gout - all the information he 
provided at application stage and during the claim process was correct. 
In the interim, Mr N brought his complaint about the claim refusal to this service, supplying 
extensive submissions on several different occasions. 
Mr N also complained about the application process, and this was dealt with as a separate 
complaint.
I recognise Mr N has gone into considerable written detail regarding each policy question 
and his view on his health at the time he sought the policy. Though I will not set the full 
submissions out here, I have read them in full. In summary, Mr N said:
throughout the process Aviva has told him that the main reason for the investigation 
was because of smoking habits and gout;
however, the claims handler later said that Aviva would have adjusted a final claim 
payment for gout as it may have only increased the policy premium marginally;
Aviva had otherwise said that his BP wasnt a relevant factor  but it is now relying on 
it;
he does not believe Aviva has acted with integrity;
it is unfairly tying unrelated BP, dizziness and chest pain incidents together along 
with an allergic reaction to medication taken for gout as a combination of factors to 
suggest he wasnt insurable;
the only misrepresentation that can be considered on his part, was missing the 
question about gout;
he missed it because it was grouped in with other ailments;
in any event, he does not believe Aviva would have sought his medical records solely 
for gout as a minor medical ailment;
he says this because in a previous policy application he disclosed his BP and a GP 
report was not sought;
in this policy he had disclosed BP and asthma and no report was sought;
he does not accept that gout would be the minor condition which altered that 
decision;
his chest pain was down to suffering with heartburn, not any other reason;Aviva is trying to imply that he saw his GP in March 2015 for BP reasons but this was 
untrue  he was dizzy and unwell with a brief impact on his BP reading because he 
had a side effect to gout medication prescribed earlier that month;
he believes that claims handler is being untruthful about their discussions;
it has transpired that Aviva always intended to refuse his claim by whatever means;
having looked at information from the Association of British Insurers, his actions are 
best described as innocent;
Aviva, on the other hand, has not complied with any of the professional values 
principles as set out by the ABI. 
Mr N then supplied further submissions from a legal representative, Mr R. Again, I will not be 
repeating these arguments in full here. In summary, Mr R said:
Aviva has moved its goalposts as it told Mr N that it was looking into his smoking and 
gout history;
in any event, the medical records confirm there is no evidence to suggest Mr N 
smoked tobacco and the later history confirmed he did not smoke tobacco;
Mr Ns condition of gout was under control at time of the application, having been 
given Allopurinol effective 1 July 2015;
Mr Ns GP has since retired but has nonetheless supplied a written account 
supporting his position;
if the underwriter had written to the GP in November 2015, she would have explained 
that there was no evidence to suggest that Mr N was a tobacco/nicotine smoker;
Mr N was never given alcohol cessation advice  he was specifically told to not drink 
red wine (in favour of other alcoholic drinks) as advice about gout;
the one minor dizzy spell was in relation to a reaction to the gout medication;
Mr N did not have another episode of gout after being prescribed the medication in 
July 2015;
the one hospital visit in 2015 was confirmed as reflux/heartburn;
Mr N disclosed he had high BP so no attempt was made to mislead Aviva about that;
it is not correct to say that tests were awaited at the time of the application;
the records do show that Mr N had been advised to attend a blood glucose test on 23 
June 2015 but the same doctor postponed the test on seeing Mr N on 1 July 2015;
Aviva has taken a particularly unfair amount of time to reply to the file requests from 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and it should be held to account for this;
there is relevant commercial court case law relating to innocent non-disclosure that 
should apply to Mr N;
this is specifically in the case of the only missing disclosure of gout  which would 
not, of itself, result in declinature of insurance terms.
An investigator reviewed the complaint, and he felt that the complaint should succeed. In his 
view, though Aviva had never received Mr Ns amendments, he did not think Mr N had made 
any material misrepresentations on the application bar one question, which didnt alter the 
underwriting decision of Aviva. 
Specifically in respect of questions about smoking, drinking and gout, our investigator noted 
that Mr N hadnt made any qualifying misrepresentation under relevant legislation applying to 
consumer disclosures.  
He also noted that another question regarding medical attention at hospital hadnt been 
answered incorrectly as the medical evidence showed how, at the time of the application, Mr 
N didnt have any outstanding investigations or awaiting results of any tests.  
Finally, he said Mr Ns policy application did answer positively to a question about BP, but one of two subsets questions was answered incorrectly. However, he said Aviva hadnt 
shown this would have affected its decision to provide the cover. As such, he took the view 
that Aviva should reinstate the policy and reconsider Mr Ns claim.
Mr N accepted the investigators view. 
Aviva disagreed. It said, in summary:
though it remained of the view that cessation advice wouldnt be offered outside of 
tobacco use, it agreed that there was contradictory information about Mr Ns smoking 
history so it agreed to disregard this;
it was also prepared to accept there was no misrepresentation around alcohol use;
however, it still maintains that there was significant misrepresentation around chest 
pain, gout, numbness of limbs, and most importantly BP control;
these matters would have led Aviva to seek a GP report and postpone Mr Ns policy 
application;
it is therefore unfair to suggest a claim ought to be considered now since it would not 
have insured Mr N on those policy terms;
Aviva does not accept that Mr Ns GP told him that he was happy that there was a 
consistent normal and well controlled level of BP or that there had been no 
requirement to make a change to his treatment; 
the evidence shows record of high BP readings and Mr N was required to increase 
his treatment regime just eight months prior to completion of his application;
if Avivas underwriters had known about this, they would have sought the 
aforementioned GP report;
accordingly Aviva would then have become aware of Mr N suffering with erratic BP 
levels, numbness down the arms and episodes of chest pain;
and so, Aviva would not have been in a position to offer cover at that time.
Aviva therefore asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree this is a complaint that ought to be upheld. Whilst I do believe that 
there were misrepresentations on the application that Aviva used to provide Mr Ns 
insurance, I dont consider any of these to amount to qualifying misrepresentations which 
would permit Aviva to avoid the policy altogether now. Ill explain my reasons below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Aviva has done.
When it was obtaining information from specialists treating Mr N, it was noted that he
was an ex-smoker with a past medical history of hypertension, chest pain and gout. Since 
three of these matters were not disclosed on the application, Aviva rightfully sent a targeted 
medical report to Mrs Ns GP, covering the relevant period preceding the policy application.   I realise that Mr N and Miss W say they made amendments to the IFAs first submission of 
the application on 10 November, and I have seen the written notes they made on the 
proposal summary documents they each received which carries a date of 14 November 
2015  the day after the IFA emailed them that the policy had begun. 
Be that as it may, Aviva did not receive these handwritten amendments from either Mr N or 
Miss W. The cover began without any amendments. The arguments around this are the 
subject of a separate complaint, so I wont be looking at that here. In any event, the 
amendments I have seen do not change any of the answers to the questions disputed by 
Aviva now.
I will look at the information Aviva did have at the time the cover went on risk, because that 
forms the material disclosures relevant to its insurance decision at that time  and the 
potential to amend its decision under relevant law if there has been a misrepresentation. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mr N was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation, upon which Aviva could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the 
policy. The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the 
application. That means looking at what was asked against the relevant evidence (including 
the medical records) up to the date of the application submitted by the IFA.  
The matters of Mr Ns alcohol intake and smoking (non-tobacco) are understood by both 
parties to no longer be in dispute. So, I wont be looking at that further. However, in respect 
of various other questions, Aviva says it could not have offered insurance terms in 2015.
Mr N was asked:
In the last five years have you had any of the following:
epilepsy, dizziness or blackouts?
arthritis or any muscle, bone or joint disorder (including sciatica, back, 
shoulder or knee pain, RSI or gout)?
received any form of medical attention at a hospital as an inpatient or 
outpatient? 
Mr N answered no to all of the above questions. He was also asked:
In the last five years have you had any chest pain, irregular heartbeat, raised blood 
pressure or raised cholesterol?
Because Mr N said yes to the above question and disclosed his high BP, he was asked a 
number of further questions. Aviva says two of these were wrongly answered:
Has your treatment changed in the last 12 months? and
Has your medical practitioner told you that your blood pressure is now 
consistently normal and well controlled?
I believe that Mr N did make material misrepresentations to all five of the above questions. 
Notwithstanding that amendments were not made, and I will come on to address Mr Ns 
reasons for his answers, but as a finding of fact I believe all of the five bulleted questions 
above should have been answered positively.  
Under relevant law (applying from 2013 and so at the time Mr N and Miss W sought their cover), each and any of the misrepresentations above are a qualifying misrepresentation if 
they affect the terms an insurer could have offered or if it can be shown that the insurer 
would not have entered into the contract at all. Following this, qualifying misrepresentations 
are categorised in one of two ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless 
(the law does not provide for an innocent category, as Mr Ns representative suggested). 
However, though I believe misrepresentations to have occurred, I do not think any of them 
are qualifying such that Aviva has the right to void the policy.  That is because it has not 
shown any objective evidence that the application would have been entered into on different 
terms or avoided altogether. 
Avivas retrospective underwriting view was that a medical report and postponement would 
be needed because before terms could be considered, the underwriter needed to know:
the cause of the dizzy episode with numbness in the arms in March 2015;
confirmation of the outcome of investigations for the ECG and blood sugar results 
because of chest pain;
evidence about consistently well controlled BP.
If Aviva had been able to obtain this information in November 2015, I believe it would have 
offered Mr N cover without any rating  because there is no relevant underwriting guidance 
supplied to this service in respect of the various disclosures that shows otherwise. 
Mr Ns medical records confirm that he had one spell of dizziness on 16 March 2015. In his 
submission to us, he said he believed he included it on his application, but either way it was 
not in the context of epilepsy or any wider issue. 
The underwriting guidance Aviva has referred to in respect of this relates to vertigo. I do not 
consider it appropriate to use that guidance as the medical records are clear that the cause 
was Mr Ns gout medication  and this was stopped immediately with no further issue. Aviva 
has highlighted on that guidance that postponement applies  but that is where the matter is 
not investigated. That doesnt apply to Mr N  his issue was investigated and found to be a 
reaction to medication which was not repeated. 
It is clear that Mr N did not disclose gout  and should have done so. However, Aviva has 
stated above that gout was not one of the conditions which it would have awaited further 
information about; and it has not provided any objective evidence that the disclosure would 
have affected the terms offered to Mr N.  
In terms of Mr N suffering from chest pain and attending hospital, his medical records show 
he attended on one occasion on 24 February 2015, reporting chest pain which worsened 
when lying flat. However, the medical records from the discharge confirm bloods were 
unremarkable and ECGs revealed no abnormalities. He was considered to have reflux.
It was for this reason that when attending the GP the following day, Mr N was given 
medication for heartburn. By 16 March 2015, this was confirmed as resolved, with the GP 
setting out that Mr N no longer had chest pain.  
Aviva confirms that it would have needed to know the ECG results in relation to chest pain 
and blood sugar results. However, these were satisfied in the discharge summary of 
February 2015.  In respect of the blood sugar test, Mr Ns GP has confirmed that the tests 
were ordered on 23 June 2015 after a routine visit. However, she also confirmed that on 1 
Jul 15, the same doctor postponed these tests, his doctor being satisfied with [Mr Ns] 
condition. There was no further outcome awaited at the time of the application.  This was also expressly confirmed in writing by the GP in her letter of 28 July 2021, where 
she confirmed Mr [N] had no tests or treatment outstanding in November 2015. 
Finally, the GP has also set out in her response to the representative that Mr [N} blood 
pressure shows to be under control from Feb 15 after retaking the drug Amlodipine
with his additional medication Ramipril.
I know Mr N feels the question infers being placed on new medication  and he didnt 
undergo a new treatment programme in February 2015; he was asked to restart medication 
hed already been prescribed. But I take the view that this was still a change. However, I do 
not believe this would have altered Avivas decision to insure Mr N.  
It says as another drug was added, its underwriters would have written to the GP. And the 
GP has confirmed that the change was a reinstruction following which Mr Ns BP was under 
control. 
The medical records show as such  Amlodipine was actually first prescribed to Mr N one 
year prior, in February 2014. The entry of February 2015 explains that Mr N did not continue 
to take Amlodipine when issued in 2014 as was not aware he needed to keep taking it. 
Aside from the episode of the reaction to the gout medicine the following month, the 
readings are shown as being 130/80. Mr N did not otherwise return to the GP regarding his 
BP before the policy application. In the underwriting information supplied by Aviva, there has 
been no suggestion that this would affect the terms it could offer Mr N.  
I therefore believe that the policy should not have been voided since there were no qualifying 
misrepresentations to allow for that. Instead, a claim should have been considered.  
Putting things right
Aviva should reinstate the policy without delay. It is unclear what has happened with Miss 
Ws cover, but this should include Miss W if she has also been left without cover. 
Mr N (and Miss W if applicable) will not be required to pay missed premiums since the policy 
was voided. This is because the redress should place Mr N in the position he would have 
been in but for the action Aviva took in cancelling the cover. Since I believe Aviva didnt 
reach a reasonable conclusion in determining it was allowed to end the policy, I do not 
believe missed premiums should be made up by Mr N (or Miss W). 
Aviva must process Mr Ns claim for critical illness benefit. If a claim is payable, it will be 
entitled to deduct the premium refund it has previously issued to Mr N from the claim value 
and the policy will then end.  
If a claim is not payable and Mr N (and/or Miss W) wish to continue with the cover, they will 
need to pay the policy premiums going forward after the claim outcome has been confirmed 
in order to continue the policy. They will also need to return the refund of premiums up to the 
time the policy was voided. I consider twelve months is a reasonable timescale to return that 
payment if incremental payment is required, as it is unclear if Mr N has retained those funds.  
I make no other award.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must follow the redress Ive set out 
above  principally, reinstating the policy and considering Mr Ns critical illness claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman