DRN-2980742
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to his current account when he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty by September 2014 and so it shouldnt have 
added the charges it did from this point onwards. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added to Mr S account from this point. 
Lloyds disagreed with our adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges as well as bank charges more generally. So I dont consider it necessary 
to set all of this out in this decision.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr S over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. 
However, while I cant look at whether Lloyds charging structure was fair per se, I can still 
consider whether it was fair and reasonable for it to have applied these charges to Mr S 
account given his particular circumstances. And Lloyds wont have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr S if it applied these interest, fees and charges to his account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued adding unauthorised overdraft charges to Mr S account from March 2015 
onwards. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Mr S had been a cycle of payday lending for a 
number of months. Hed gone into an unarranged overdraft and had to pay fees for this for a 
number of consecutive months and Mr S was clearly borrowing from a number of different 
lenders in order to try and meet his existing commitment. And in March 2015, Mr S 
statements show that unarranged overdraft fees are what once again pushed him into a 
negative balance and an unarranged overdraft. Mr S resorted to taking out a further payday 
loan to pay these fees and this was a spiral that went on to continue. 
Lloyds says that it wasnt required to monitor Mr S account because he wasnt given an 
agreed overdraft. But the Lending Code, which was in place at the time and which Lloyds 
subscribed to, clearly stated that regular unarranged overdrafts or an increasing dependence 
on unarranged overdrafts was a potential indicator of financial difficulty. And as it would have 
written to Mr S after each charge was applied, I would have expected Lloyds to have known 
what was happening and to have taken steps to check that adding even more interest, fees 
and charges wasnt just making the situation worse. 
So I think that Lloyds ought to have seen that Mr S was already struggling to manage and 
offered him assistance rather than adding an increasing amount of interest, fees and 
charges to his account. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr S overdraft usage, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him. And as this led to Mr S paying additional interest, fees and charges and having 
to borrow from payday lenders to do so, Im satisfied that he lost out as a result of Lloyds 
failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Lloyds needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr S account so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from 
March 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance would have remained on the account once these 
adjustments have been made Lloyds should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr S credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the account from March 
2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman