DRN-2944208
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they were sold in 2018 by Key 
Retirement Solutions Limited. They believe the mortgage was mis-sold because they had no 
need for the money that was released and havent used it. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked that all the costs associated with the mortgage; setting up costs, 
interest and early repayment charge (ERC) are reimbursed. 
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs M approached Key for advice about releasing equity from their home. 
They predominantly wanted to do so in order to gift each of their children money, totalling 
£200,000. In addition, they wanted to put some money toward their daughters wedding, 
have funds available for holidays and any emergencies that might arise. Key advised them 
not to release funds where there was no immediate need for the money and that it was a 
bad idea to release equity for investment purposes. This was because the interest on the 
mortgage would grow at a higher rate than Mr and Mrs M could achieve on the released 
money if they put it in an investment or deposit account. At the time, Mr M told the adviser 
the equity release had been discussed with their children, they had agreed to it happening 
and had said that Mr and Mrs M should spend the money on themselves, rather than 
passing it on. However, subsequently Mr M confirmed that the children advised against the 
lifetime mortgage in 2017. Mr and Mrs M didnt proceed with a mortgage at that time. 
However, in early 2018 Mr and Mrs M approached Key again to borrow a much smaller sum 
of £22,000 against their home, but with the facility to take further funds in the future. 
Key provided a recording of the telephone call between the mortgage adviser and Mr M at 
that time. Mr M explained that between a wedding, home improvements and a business 
project, he and Mrs M had used most of their liquid cash. They wanted £20,000 to replace 
these monies. In addition, they wanted to have the option to draw further funds if they 
needed it. He mentioned that he might need money for his business project, or their children 
might need money, and they wanted to have easy access to further funds. Mr M also 
explained that the mortgage hadnt gone ahead the previous year because the children had 
told him and Mrs M that they had no use for the money at that point in time. 
The financial adviser explained that there were two options to release equity: a home 
reversion plan and a lifetime mortgage. The basic concepts of each were explained. Mr M 
confirmed that they wouldnt be interested in a home reversion plan because they wanted to 
keep ownership of their home. The adviser went on to provide more detail of a lifetime 
mortgage, the options available and the risks associated with it. It was highlighted that the 
mortgage would erode the equity in the property and what would be left for Mr and Mrs Ms 
beneficiaries. While it was thought unlikely to happen, because the advance was small in 
comparison to the value of the property, it was highlighted that all of the equity in the 
property could be eroded. 
A fact find was completed at that time which detailed that Mr and Mrs M wanted to increase 
their emergency fund to cover any unforeseen expenditure and income requirements. 
Specifically, it was detailed that Mr M may need access to funds to pay fees for a project he 
was working on. They were retired, had a disposable income of around £1,600 per month, 
no savings or investments and no liabilities. 
Mr and Mrs M confirmed that they had no intention of moving and although they had 
disposable income, they used this on day-to-day living and didnt want to use it on the 
repayment of a loan. In addition, they wanted to have the option to access further funds as 
and when required in the future. Mr and Mrs M said they wanted the lowest interest rate 
possible on the initial release of funds and they also wouldnt have the funds to repay the 
mortgage, so they werent concerned about an ERC being attached. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs M told the adviser that they had discussed the equity release with their children, 
and they were fully supportive. 
The key facts document created for Mr and Mrs M explained what a lifetime mortgage was, 
included a summary of what they had told the adviser and details of the amounts involved. It 
was for an initial mortgage advance of £22,000 with a drawdown facility of around £154,000. 
Projections were included, based on just the initial advance being made, showing what 
would be owed over the first 18 years of the term. The figures were based on an annual 
interest rate of 3.78% and increased steadily each year, reaching nearly £43,000 at the end 
of 18 years. It was confirmed that the interest rate wouldnt change over the term of the 
mortgage, although the rate might be slightly different depending on when the mortgage 
actually completed. It was also detailed that an ERC of up to £5,500 would be payable if the 
mortgage was paid off in circumstances other than death or the need for long term care. 
The suitability letter detailed that Mr and Mrs M had told the adviser that they wanted to 
release funds to form an emergency fund. In addition, they wanted a facility to be able to 
draw further money from the property in the future. The adviser stated that he had advised 
Mr and Mrs M against doing so, as there was no immediate need for the money. As the 
interest they would get on the money in investment or deposit accounts would be less than 
that accumulating on the mortgage, it would cost them and their estates more over time. It 
was detailed that Mr and Mrs M were insistent that they wanted to release the money, as 
they wanted reassurance the money would immediately be available if needed.  The adviser 
confirmed that other options for raising the money had been considered and discounted. As 
such, he recommended a lifetime mortgage.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs Ms representative raised a complaint with Key. It responded, but it 
didnt uphold the complaint as it considered the mortgage had been fully explained and 
suitable for them. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept Keys response and referred the complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs M had been given a clear explanation of the 
mortgage, they understood what they were doing and the consequences of doing so. He 
wasnt persuaded the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators opinion. Their representative said that they 
hadnt understood what they were undertaking and hadnt read the illustrations. He asked if 
anyone took them through the illustration. While Mr M had raised the prospect of using the 
cash for a project, this was a potential use and nothing about it was concrete. Nothing went 
further on the project and the money was not needed. Mr and Mrs Ms children had clearly 
stated that money was not needed or appropriate in 2017, so why was the application 
accepted so freely in 2018? He asked why the adviser didnt question why equity release was appropriate in 2018 when it hadnt been in 2017. In addition, the representative asked 
why a solicitor was an appropriate person to review and make sure Mr and Mrs M 
understood the mortgage. He also asked where the details of the conversation with the 
solicitor were. 
Following a further conversation between Mr and Mrs Ms representative and our 
investigator, the representative maintained that Mr and Mrs M didnt understand the 
implication of the loan. It was agreed that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman 
for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr M and the mortgage adviser in 2017 
and 2018. It is clear from the earlier of those calls that Mr M had researched the concept of 
equity release and spoken to other sources about such mortgages before he contacted Key.  
Key clearly set out how the mortgage worked and the effect it would have on the equity in 
the property and the estate Mr and Mrs M would leave to their beneficiaries. I am satisfied 
that alternative options for raising the money wanted were discussed, but Mr and Mrs M 
didnt want to take up any of those options. The possibility of the mortgage being repaid for 
reasons other than death or the need for long term care was also discussed. Mr M was 
confident this wouldnt be a requirement and so the potential for an ERC being paid wasnt a 
concern. That said, the adviser did explain that an ERC would be payable in such 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has said that Mr and Mrs M didnt understand what they were 
doing, However, having listened to the call recordings, I cant agree. I am satisfied that Mr M 
had a good understanding of how the mortgage worked. Indeed, he even explained to the 
adviser how compound interest worked to demonstrate his understanding of how the debt 
would increase year on year.  In addition, the adviser warned against taking funds before 
they were needed as the interest on the mortgage would outstrip any growth the funds would 
achieve in a deposit or investment account. Mr M confirmed that he understood this, but he 
and Mrs M wanted to have money available immediately if it was needed. It was confirmed 
they wanted to go ahead with the mortgage despite the warnings.
I note that Mr and Mrs M consider the mortgage was mis-sold because they havent used the 
money. However, the money was to be used to replace their emergency fund. It isnt an 
excessive amount for that purpose. In addition, the entire purpose of such a fund is for it to 
sit in an easily accessed account for emergencies. The fact that it hasnt been needed 
simply indicates that Mr and Mrs M havent suffered an emergency necessitating the use of 
the fund in the last three years. I dont consider the fact they havent spent the money 
indicates that the mortgage was mis-sold.
I know that Mr and Mrs M wont be happy with my conclusion, but I am not persuaded that 
the mortgage was mis-sold. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman