DRN-2885129
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
All references to Aviva include agents acting on its behalf. Mrs G is represented in this case 
but, for ease, I have only referred to Mrs G, who is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs G contacted Aviva to arrange for an engineer to visit when she found the radiator in her 
bathroom was leaking. When the engineer visited, he spoke to Aviva to check whether the 
radiator, which he said was a towel rail, would be covered. Aviva confirmed it would. So, the 
engineer said he would return a couple of weeks later to fit a replacement. Mrs G contacted 
Aviva again when she heard nothing further. Aviva said there was no cover under the policy 
for towel rails, so it wouldnt be fitting a replacement.
When Mrs G complained to Aviva, it apologised for misadvising her that the towel rail was 
covered by the policy when it was excluded under the policy terms and conditions. It offered 
Mrs G £30 compensation for misinforming her. Aviva also later refunded Mrs G the £60 
excess she had paid for the engineers visit.
When Mrs G complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said the policy excluded towel rails, so it was reasonable to Aviva to decline the claim. She 
said, in the circumstances, Aviva had acted reasonably by refunding the policy excess.
As Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. In the section called What isnt 
covered? it listed heated towel rails. So, Im satisfied that heated towel rails werent covered 
by the policy and that this was explained in the terms and conditions. 
Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for Aviva to decide the radiator in the 
bathroom was a heated towel rail. As part of that, Ive thought about all of Mrs Gs 
information and comments about the radiator, including how closely it was secured to the 
wall, that no towels were hung on it and the way it was heated. 
The engineer seemed to identify that it was a heated towel rail during his visit, which is why 
he queried with Aviva whether it was covered under the policy. Ive also looked at the details 
Aviva considered when it was deciding whether the radiator was covered by the policy, 
including a photo of the radiator. Based on that, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide 
it was a heated towel rail and to decline to replace it as it wasnt covered by the policy. The 
details provided by Mrs G dont change my view on this.
Ive also looked at what happened in terms of dealing with the claim itself. Im aware that Mrs 
G was initially told the claim would be covered. However, Aviva later said it wasnt covered. 
As a result, Aviva offered Mrs G £30 compensation and also refunded the £60 policy excess. 
I think that was reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. So, looking at 
all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman