DRN-2350612
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has compensated her for its 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a credit card.
What happened
In 2019, Ms M complained to BoS that shed been mis-sold PPI with two credit cards. BoS 
responded to Ms Ms complaint, accepting that a PPI policy had been mis-sold to her 
covering these two cards and three others, all of which were linked. It offered to pay her 
compensation for this mis-sale of £1,891.59. 
Ms M referred her complaint to this service because she wasnt happy with the amount BoS 
had offered her for this mis-sale. She thought that shed paid more in PPI premiums over the 
life of the policy than BoS had estimated that shed done and so the offer was too low.
Our adjudicator thought that the compensation offer made by BoS had been calculated in 
the way we would have expected and was fair. So she didnt think BoS needed to do 
anything more to compensate Ms M for the mis-sale. 
Ms M doesnt agree with the adjudicators view. She says she still thinks she hadnt been 
offered enough compensation by BoS. She says it has assumed a later start date for the 
policy than she thinks was the case. She also thinks that her credit card was still being used 
until December 2002, so the period over which BoS has calculated her compensation is 
shorter than it should have been. And Ms M says she thinks she had relatively large 
outstanding balances on her credit card during the period from August 1995 to May 1996 
when she was using her card whilst working in the USA.
As Ms M doesnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS upheld Ms Ms mis-sale complaint. This means that in this decision I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold. Ill only be looking at whether the compensation BoS has 
offered Ms M for the mis-sale is fair.
When, as in this case, a business accepts that it has mis-sold a PPI policy, we expect it  as 
far as is possible  to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the mis-
sale hadnt occurred. 
This would normally involve the business refunding any PPI premiums which have been 
paid, together with any interest charged on those premiums. Sometimes the business may 
also need to take account of such things as additional charges that may have been incurred 
as a result of taking out the PPI. We would also expect the business to add simple interest at 
8% (15% before I April 1993) for any times the consumer has been deprived of money they 
would otherwise have had available to them if they hadnt been sold the PPI. 
Ive first considered what Ms M has said about thinking her credit card account had been 
opened in around 1989. And I asked BoS to provide further evidence to confirm that the start 
date it had used of 16 August 1991 was right. In response, BoS has sent me a screen shot 
from its computer systems that shows this start date for Ms Ms card account. So, from what 
Ive seen, I think Ms M is mistaken in thinking she opened her card account at an earlier date 
than this.
Ive next looked at what Ms M has said about her card account still being used until 
December 2002. But I can see from the statements that BoS has provided that no further 
PPI was charged on her account after January 2002. And this is correctly reflected in the 
calculations BoS did to determine the compensation due to her.
BoS has provided its detailed workings on which the offer to Ms M was based. For most of 
the time over which Ms Ms account was opened and in use, I can see that BoS has used 
actual statement data to reconstruct her account on the basis that shed never been sold the 
PPI. The main period where BoS is missing this information is from the start of the account 
in August 1991 to the first available statement in February 1993. For this period, BoS has 
estimated the PPI charged on Ms Ms account using a methodology which has been 
approved by this service. So, in the absence of actual account data, I think what BoS has 
done to estimate the month end balances and associated PPI charges is fair. 
Ms M has also said she thinks she had relatively large outstanding balances on her account 
during the period from August 1995 to May 1996 and that BoS may not have correctly 
reflected this in the calculations it has undertaken. And I can see from the detailed workings 
that BoS has provided that the outstanding balances on Ms Ms account were high during 
this time. But Im satisfied that these balances and the associated PPI charges are correctly 
reflected in the offer which BoS made to her.
So, in summary, having reviewed all the relevant information, and considered the reasons 
Ms M has given for thinking BoSs offer was too low, Im satisfied that the offer BoS has 
made to Ms M for the mis-sale of PPI is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman