DRN-3879254
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that her pet insurer, Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd (CGIC), turned down a claim she made under the policy she has for her dog.
CGIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mrs H was 
dealing with a different company who acts as CGICs agent. As CGIC has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to CGIC includes the 
actions of the agent.
What happened
Mrs H has an insurance policy with CGIC for her dog, L. The policy started in 
December 2021. In February 2022, L needed urgent treatment for a kidney problem and was 
kept in hospital for a number of days.
 
Mrs H made various claims for the vets fees for treating L to CGIC but it turned them down. 
CGIC said this was because L had a related pre-existing condition that started before the 
policy was incepted and that this meant that the current treatment was excluded. It added 
that had Mrs H made it aware of this pre-existing condition when she took the policy out it 
would have added an endorsement on the policy excluding all claims to do with the digestive 
system from the start of the policy.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this and complained but CGIC didnt change its decision. So Mrs H 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and asked for CGIC to 
reimburse her for the fees which came to a total of just under £4,000. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld and that 
CGIC should pay the claim plus interest. He said he didnt think that there was a pre-existing 
condition that related to Ls kidney issues. He said CGIC was referring to a single episode of 
vomiting and diarrhoea which L suffered whilst she was a puppy. He added that two vets 
wrote to CGIC to say that the two incidents were unrelated. 
CGIC didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said that the two episodes 
happened very close together so they were likely related.
 
Before issuing this decision I notified the parties that I agreed with our Investigator and I was 
also intending on awarding £150 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs H suffered. I added 
that I agreed with our investigator that the December 2021 episode was a one-off event so I 
didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for CGIC to add an endorsement on the policy. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. I also wanted to say that I was very sorry to 
hear about Ls kidney problem and I am hoping that she is feeling better.
The policy
Under the veterinary fees section, the policy says it covers treatment carried out by a vet 
for treating an illness whilst the pet is insured with CGIC. Treatment includes consultation, 
examination, advice, tests, x-rays, slides, ultrasound, MRI scans, medication and surgery 
provided by the vet. The benefit limit under this section is £4,000 and the excess is £90.
The policy also enables the consumer to claim per condition up to the benefit limit in each 
and every policy period of insurance. At each renewal the benefit limit for each condition 
renews. Condition is defined as an illness or accidental injury or any symptoms or clinical 
signs of an illness or accidental injury affecting your pet. It defines illness as  any 
disease, sickness, infection or any change to your pets normal healthy state, which is not 
caused by an accidental injury.
Like most pet insurance policies, this one excludes claims relating to conditions that existed 
before the commencement of the policy and also events that happened early in the cover 
period  within the initial 14 days or first five days in relation to accidental injuries. 
The medical evidence
Mrs H said that the episode of vomiting which happened before the policy started involved L 
being sick in the car on the way to the vet. Mrs H added that L had some minor diarrhoea on 
that day which she recovered from. She said this was merely mentioned in a conversation 
with the veterinary nurse when L went in for worming and a weight check. Mrs H added it 
wasnt until February 2022 when she went back to the vet with symptoms of vomiting, 
diarrhoea and bad breath that L was diagnosed with renal dysplasia after spending a week 
in hospital. 
The above is supported by the medical records which I have reviewed. I cant see any 
further mention of vomiting in Ls records between December 2021 and February 2022. So 
based on this, under the terms of the policy, I dont think it would be fair for CGIC to treat the 
car sickness incident as a condition as it seems to have been a one-off event and therefore 
not an illness (disease, sickness, infection or change in the pets normal healthy state) nor 
do I think it was an accidental injury or an associated condition  looking at how these are 
defined within the policy. And I, therefore, dont think it would be fair to treat it as a 
pre-existing condition either. 
For completeness I will say that in its final response CGIC said that Mrs H failed to declare 
the vomiting as a pre-existing condition and that had it known about this it would have added 
an endorsement onto the policy. As I dont consider the incident of December 2021 to be a 
pre-existing condition I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say Mrs H should have 
disclosed this to CGIC or, consequently, for CGIC to add an endorsement such as the one 
its proposed to add.
  
The claim
One of the hospital vets wrote to CGIC to say that L was diagnosed with a kidney condition 
called renal dysplasia and that had the episode of vomiting which she suffered earlier been 
related to this disease it would have continued until it was addressed. He added that L would 
have gotten worse rather than improved after the first vomiting episode which he suspected 
was due to travel sickness. Mrs Hs own vet also wrote a letter to say that the two episodes 
were unrelated and added that, prior to the episode in February 2022, L was seen as a 
healthy puppy.
 
In the absence of any conflicting veterinary evidence, overall, I am satisfied that the 
condition that the claim relates to was not a pre-existing one as caught by the policy. And for 
that reason, I think the claim was unfairly declined. I also dont think CGIC dealt with Mrs Hs claims fairly and reasonably because it did not 
appear to take into account the available expert evidence. Mrs H has had to pay the claims 
herself. I also note that CGIC didnt respond to Mrs Hs complaint within the eight weeks 
available to it. For these reasons I think CGIC should pay Mr H £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided that Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd must now pay the claims for the vomiting/vomiting and weight loss 
investigations/renal dysplasia (and any other related claim) subject to any policy limit and 
any applicable excess. It must also pay Mrs H interest at a yearly rate of 8% simple payable 
one month from the date each claim was made to the date it pays her. And it must also pay 
Mrs H £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd pays interest and considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman