DRN-3622993
The complaint
Miss H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) had incorrectly applied a missed payment
marker on her credit file which caused her mortgage in principle application to be rejected.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss H acquired a number of items from a retailer Ill refer to as I. Miss H paid
a £10 deposit with the remaining £1,241.85 funded by a fixed sum loan agreement with
Ikano. The agreement was payable over 24 months. 23 months at £51.75 with a final
payment of £51.60. Miss H said she cancelled the goods shed acquired under the
agreement. One of the deliveries was cancelled. But Miss H said she did receive some of
the goods and returned these to the local I retailer. Miss H said one repayment of £51.75
was taken from her bank account but this was later returned to her by them. She said she
was told in August 2019 that the agreement was settled and closed. But in May 2021 when
she was declined for a mortgage application in principle, she found that Ikano had added a
late payment marker to her credit file. She complained to Ikano.
Ikano apologised they said they should have removed the late payment marker in April
2020.
Miss H wasnt happy with their response as she said their error had meant her mortgage
application didnt go through and had caused her to lose a property, shed made an offer on.
And that this meant she was still having to pay £480 each month in commuting costs. She
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Ikano should have done more to put things right. But couldnt say that
the late payment marker was the sole reason for the decline of Miss Hs mortgage
application. He asked Ikano to pay Miss H £200 for the distressed caused.
Neither Miss H or Ikano agreed with the investigators outcome and asked for an
ombudsman to decide. Miss H said she should be compensated for the financial impact of
Ikanos error. And Ikano said that their action couldnt be attributed to the decline of Miss Hs
mortgage application. They said £100 was more reflective of any trouble and upset caused. 
The complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in July 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Miss H signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano when she looked
to acquire goods in June 2019. And that Ikano recorded negative information on Miss Hs
credit file as she hadnt made any repayments after she took out the agreement with them.
Miss H says this shouldnt have been recorded as she retuned or cancelled all of the goods.
And she said shed been told the agreement had been settled in August 2019. So, Ive
looked at what has happened here.
When Miss H signed the fixed loan sum agreement she would have agreed to make her
monthly repayments on time. This was written into her agreement.
And the agreement also said:
Missing payments or paying less than the minimum amount could make obtaining credit
more difficult in the future
I cant see anything in the loan agreement which said that Miss H didnt have to make her
repayments on time if she had an ongoing dispute about the goods or services that were
meant to have been provided, or that any failure to make payment in these circumstances
wouldnt be reported to the credit reference agencies.
Miss H said shed cancelled or returned all of the goods shed look to acquire under the fixed
sum loan agreement. I can see from Ikanos records that in July 2019 she asked them why a
repayment for the agreement had been taken from her bank account, as the goods hadnt
been acquired and Ikano referred her to the retailer I. In October 2019 I can see Ikano
raised a dispute after receiving a dispute form from Miss H about the remaining goods.
From the records I can see in July 2019 goods to the value of £1,200.90 were cancelled or
returned, leaving an outstanding balance of £40.95. I can see that I said three items had
been delivered to Miss H totalling £50.95, as Miss H had paid a deposit of £10 this left the
remaining balance. Miss H accepted shed received one of the items costing £7.95 (which
would have been paid for out of the £10 deposit) but not the remaining two items.
Ikanos records show that in September 2019 Miss H told them she didnt want to make any
repayments. The dispute process was explained to her and that while the dispute was
ongoing and there was an outstanding balance charges for late payments would still be
made. The records show a dispute was raised in October 2019, and it was noted that Ikano
wouldnt report any adverse information to Miss Hs credit file. The account status would be
noted as under review. It wasnt until April 2020 that the dispute was resolved with Ikano
deciding that due to the low value of the dispute the remaining balance should be cleared,
and the agreement noted as settled.
Miss H has shown us a screenshot of her credit file information for her Ikano account, that
was updated May 2020. This shows for August 2019 the account was three months in
arrears and for September 2019, four months in arrears. From October 2019 until April 2020
the marker shown is US, which reflects the action taken by Ikanos records as the dispute 
was raised in October 2019. I can also see that from April 2020 the information shows S.
Which indicates the account has been settled, and as the screenshot is dated May 2020, I
think this shows that Ikano updated Miss Hs credit file once the dispute was settled in April
2020. I havent seen any evidence that there was a delay in updating Miss Hs credit file.
From what I can see Miss H had an outstanding balance under the agreement which she
didnt make any repayment towards. This was disputed from October 2019 and her credit file
reflects this. And in May 2020 her credit file shows the account had been settled by April
2020. So, I cant say that Ikano has incorrectly reported Miss Hs credit history with them.
In May 2021 Miss H had a joint mortgage application declined with the reason given being
the application has not passed the credit score. Miss H said that this was when the stampduty holiday was available. She intended to purchase a property nearer to work to reduce
commuting costs and feels that the late payment markers contributed to the joint application
being declined. Miss H hasnt provided a copy of her credit file, only the screenshot of her
Ikano account for me to consider. So, without this evidence its difficult for me to conclude
the level of impact this one record has had against her overall circumstances. As at the time
Miss H made her mortgage application the Ikano account, from the screenshot Miss H has
provided to us would have shown the account as having been settled. The mortgage
application was made jointly so Im also unaware of the other applicants circumstances.
I havent seen evidence that the declined mortgage application was due solely to anything
recorded by Ikano on Miss Hs credit file. And I cant say Ikano incorrectly recorded her
credit history with them. So, it follows that I cant ask Ikano to pay Miss H for the distress and
inconvenience she says theyve caused as I dont think theyve acted unfairly or
unreasonably.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ikano hasnt asked for any further comments or evidence to be considered.
Miss H in summary said:
she shouldnt have been charged for the two items as they were never delivered to 
her;
as she hadnt received any goods there werent any missing payments for her to 
make;
her credit file shouldnt have shown she was in arrears for the four months it did; and
Ikano had reported adverse information to her credit file and this would have affected 
further lending decisions.
I can understand that Miss H didnt accept shed any items to pay for as she said she never 
received them. But this was disputed as the retailers records show three items requiring 
payment. So, I think its clear that the delivery of the items was in dispute. As Miss H 
disputed receiving the items she chose not to make any payments towards the outstanding 
balance. But I think Ikano made clear that until the dispute was resolved the agreement 
shed with them would show a balance owing. And page two of three of Miss Hs Fixed Loan 
Agreement clearly says:
Missing payments or paying less than the minimum amount could make obtaining credit
more difficult in the future
As it wasnt until October 2019 that Miss H returned the dispute form, Ikano recorded her 
agreement as being in arrears from July 2019 for the outstanding balance. But after the 
dispute was brought to Ikano by Miss H in October 2019 they reflected this on her credit file 
showing it was being reviewed. And I can see they updated Miss Hs credit file in April 2020 
when the outstanding balance was written off.
I havent been sent any further comments or representations that have persuaded me to 
change my thinking. I dont consider Ikano acted unfairly or unreasonably as they correctly 
recorded the agreement Miss H had with them.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman