DRN-3902016
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that Computershare Investor Services Plc didnt transfer shares from his 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) to his Individual Savings Account (ISA) when he asked them to. 
What happened
Mr B retired in April 2021 and had a short window of time in which to transfer shares out of 
his SIP. He instructed Computershare to transfer 950 shares to an account with another 
provider. From there, the shares were to be split between Mr Bs ISA and his wifes ISA. 
Unfortunately the transfer didnt happen and instead the shares were transferred 
automatically to Mr Bs trading account. This meant they lost their exempt status for Capital 
Gains Tax (CGT) purposes.
Computershare acknowledged that the transfer should have been done but wasnt, due to a 
human error. Mr B asked Computershare to compensate him for the CGT liability that would 
arise on the sale of the shares. Four months later, Computershare hadnt responded to 
Mr Bs complaint so he brought it to our service.  
At that stage, Computershare offered Mr B £100 in compensation but Mr B wasnt happy 
with this. He initially calculated the loss to be between around £4,000 and £9,500. After 
further correspondence, Computershare did some calculations of their own and paid Mr B 
£4,000. Mr B remained unhappy though so our investigator looked into the complaint. 
Computershare disagreed with our investigators first view and Mr B disagreed with the 
second view  so the matters come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision on 14 December 2022. In this I said:
Theres no dispute that Computershare got something wrong  or what the error was. 
What is in dispute is the impact of the error  primarily the financial loss suffered by Mr B 
because of the error.
Firstly, its worth noting that Mr B hasnt yet suffered a financial loss. The anticipated loss 
is the difference between the CGT hell have to pay when the shares are sold, and the 
amount Mr B would have had to pay if the relevant transfer had been made. Several of 
the elements that make up the CGT calculation are in dispute so Ill set out my thoughts 
on each below. 
Number of shares transferred
I appreciate Computershare have recently said Mr B wouldnt have been able to transfer 
shares from the SIP directly to his wifes ISA  but this wasnt the proposed arrangement. 
Mr Bs told us that he intended a bed and ISA approach which hed used a couple of 
years previously. This approach meant transferring the shares to a nominee account, 
gifting half to his wife, selling them, and then buying new shares within an ISA. The gift of 
shares from one spouse to another is exempt from CGT. And, although there may have 
been a small gain on the sale of the shares, this would have been minimal as the sale 
would have taken place very soon after the exit date from the SIP. 
So Im inclined to say this approach would have allowed Mr B to effectively transfer 
£40,000 worth of shares whilst incurring only minimal tax liabilities. He and his wife would 
then have been able to benefit from the subsequent gains in the share price without 
incurring any future CGT as the shares would have been held in ISAs.
I appreciate Computershare have also said theyre not liable for losses incurred by Mr Bs 
wife as shes not their customer. But although his wife stood to gain from the transaction, 
the potential CGT liability that may crystallise will just be Mr Bs loss  so I still think its 
appropriate to make the calculation based on £40,000 worth of shares.
Correspondence shows that the intended date of the transfer was 25 May 2021. At this 
point, Im inclined to say the market price of the shares was such that Mr B would have 
been able to put all of the 950 shares into the two ISAs without breaching the ISA limit. 
So the calculation should be based on 950 shares. 
Cost of shares 
Mr B has said he thinks the cost price of the shares for his CGT calculation should be the 
average cost of his portfolio. This would be the case if his shares hadnt been in a SIP. 
But HM Revenue & Customs guidance is clear that this isnt the case: If you keep the 
shares after you take them out of the plan and dispose of them later, your cost for capital 
gains purposes will be their market value on the date the shares leave the plan. So Im 
inclined to say the cost of all the shares for the CGT calculation should be the market 
price of the shares on the date they were transferred from the SIP to the trading account 
 that being 7 June 2021.
Sale date and sale price
When considering how a business should put things right, I have to consider what is fair 
to both parties. And that means thinking about to what extent the business getting things 
wrong is the reason for a customers loss, and whether a customer could have done more 
to make the loss less severe. In this instance, the share price has increased substantially 
since May 2021  so Mr Bs potential losses have also increased.
When I asked Mr B why he hadnt sold the shares or moved them into an ISA, Mr B said 
hed hoped Computershare would be able to sort things out, so he waited until 
December 2021 before taking any action. At that point, Computershare wrote to him 
apologising for the error and offering Mr B £100. On 21 December 2021 Mr B and his wife 
started to use their ISA allowances for the tax year, but left the shares from the SIP in the 
trading account.
I appreciate Mr B may have wanted to reach an acceptable resolution with 
Computershare. But I think the fact that he started to use his ISA allowances for other 
funds suggests hed decided that Computershare werent going to be able to put him 
back into the position he should have been in. By early January 2022, Mr B was emailing 
Computershare with price forecasts for the shares from the SIP  and its clear he was 
expecting substantial gains  and therefore a significant CGT liability.
So, Im inclined to say that Mr B could have crystallised the CGT liability at the end of 
December 2021 and this would have made his potential loss much less severe. Im 
inclined to say the CGT calculation should be done using the share price as at 21 
December 2021  the date that Mr B started to use his ISA allowance.Putting things right
Im inclined to say Computershare need to recalculate the CGT liability as 20% of the 
gain on 950 shares, the gain being the difference between the share price on 7 June 
2021 and the share price on 21 December 2021. 
In addition, I note that it took six months for Computershare to provide an initial response 
and offer of compensation to Mr B and a further five months before they made any 
attempt to calculate the financial loss and offer some sensible options for redress. That 
length of time caused Mr B a significant amount of inconvenience and some distress. If 
theyd considered things properly sooner, its likely the matter could have been resolved 
much more simply. I think an amount of £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
So, having recalculated the CGT liability, Computershare should add £500 to this, and if 
the total is greater than £4,000, Im inclined to say Computershare should pay any 
additional amount to Mr B.
Computershare replied to say theyd done the calculations and no further amount was due to 
Mr B. In his reply, Mr B said he hadnt thought at the time about how he could mitigate his 
losses. He said that if Computershare had been more responsive and engaged they could 
perhaps have pointed this out to him. 
Neither partys comments change my view, and so my final decision is that Computershare 
dont need to pay any more to Mr B. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, my final decision is that Computershare Investor Services Plc dont 
need to make any further payments to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman