DRN-3427904
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent threatening letters 
concerning persistent debt on her credit card. 
What happened
Ms M has had a Halifax credit card for several years. Mrs M has explained that Halifax has 
sent her threatening letters asking her to increase the monthly payments she makes.
After Ms M complained, Halifax sent a final response. Halifax said changes in the 
regulations meant it had to contact customers who had been in persistent debt for some 
time. Halifax paid Ms M £25 to apologise for any upset caused, but didnt agree it had 
treated her unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ms complaint but felt Halifax had dealt with it 
fairly. The investigator didnt ask Halifax to take any further action to resolve Ms Ms 
complaint. Ms M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax said in its final response, changes in the regulations meant it contacted credit 
card holders if theyd paid more in interest, fees and charges than towards the outstanding 
balance over an extended period. The rules refer to this as Persistent Debt. Ive looked at 
Ms Ms credit card statements and can see Halifax did have grounds to contact her in 
relation to persistent debt. 
Ms M has told us she pays more than the minimum payment each month. I can see thats 
the case. But the persistent debt guidance means Halifax had to provide information about 
the payments required to repay the outstanding balance. And whilst Mrs M makes payments 
above the minimum, I havent been persuaded it was unfair for Halifax to provide examples 
of payments she could make. 
Halifax has explained that it can ultimately take the step of closing the account to new 
spending. Whilst I understand that has caused Ms M some concern, Im satisfied its a step 
Halifaxs account terms and the regulations it operates under allow it to take. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms M but I havent been persuaded that the contact from Halifax about persistent 
debt on her credit card was harassing in nature. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms M but as Im satisfied Halifax dealt with her complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman