DRN-2971706
The complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) is holding him liable for an online transaction 
which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
Mr K has an Aqua credit card with NewDay.
In late December 2020, Mr K contacted NewDay to dispute a £1,871.29 ($2,503.36 USD) 
transaction made using his credit card on 2 December 2020.  This was an online transaction 
for goods.  NewDay blocked Mr Ks card and initially refunded the disputed funds to his 
account.  But, following a chargeback claim, NewDay re-debited the funds, which Mr K 
raised a complaint about.
NewDay says Mr K informed it that he didnt authorise the transaction; he was still in 
possession of his card and that he didnt suspect it had been compromised.  NewDay raised 
a chargeback, which the merchant concerned defended.  The merchant provided evidence 
showing that the order totalling £1,871.29, was made using Mr Ks card and delivered to his 
address.  For these reasons, NewDay didnt continue with the chargeback process, refused 
to refund the funds to Mr K and held him liable for them. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service.  He maintained he 
didnt make the transaction.  He added that his card was always safe in his wallet, which 
only he had access to.  He also mentioned that he had used his card at a petrol station and 
that the alleged fraud occurred after that.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  In short, he thought 
the single transaction was not the type of spending he would expect to see from a fraudster.  
He said it was possible that Mr Ks card couldve been compromised at the petrol station.  
However, he added that for an unknown fraudster to gain any benefit from the alleged fraud 
(i.e. take possession of the order concerned), they wouldve needed to obtain details of, and 
access to, Mr Ks address without him knowing  which our investigator didnt find plausible.  
He also considered that NewDay had acted reasonably in deciding not to continue with the 
chargeback process based on the evidence the merchant provided.
Mr K responded saying he didnt agree with our investigators findings.  In short, he said he 
found the proof of delivery evidence to be questionable, as there was no signature or 
photograph to support the goods had been delivered to his address.  He suggested that it 
was possible a fraudster obtained both his card and address details, waited for the delivery 
to his address and intercepted it.  Mr K also added that if he had made the transaction  
which he denies  he would be able to make a section 75 claim, as he didnt receive the 
goods.
Our investigators position remained the same.  He responded saying that the delivery 
evidence would be sufficient to prove delivery under chargeback and section 75.  He also 
said he found it unlikely in the circumstances that the order couldve been intercepted.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state, amongst other things, that a payment service provider (in 
this case, NewDay) is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised 
transaction.  However, NewDay can hold Mr K liable for any disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests, that its more likely than not, that he made or otherwise authorised them.  
Where credit is involved, as is the case here, the 2017 Regulations make provision for the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 to apply in place of certain regulations of the 2017 Regulations, 
including those provisions which govern the apportionment of liability in unauthorised 
transactions.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence NewDay has provided that Mr Ks genuine card was 
used to make the online transaction concerned.  However, Mr Ks position is that he didnt 
authorise this transaction.  He confirmed to our investigator that he kept his card in his 
wallet, which was always safe.  He also confirmed that although he lives with his wife and 
children, nobody has access to his card apart from himself.  I can see from NewDays 
internal notes, that Mr K said he had spoken to those in his immediate circle  family and 
friends  and they confirmed they hadnt made the transaction.
With the above in mind, Ive considered whether a third party unknown to Mr K couldve 
made the transaction.  Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about the transaction 
occurring after he had used his card at a petrol station.  Having thought about this carefully, 
Im not persuaded, on balance, that an unknown third party carried out the transaction.
I say this because although Mr K says the transaction happened after he used his card at a 
petrol station, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr Ks card was compromised at that 
point, or indeed any other point thereafter.  Even if I could conclude that Mr Ks card was 
somehow compromised at the petrol station, I dont consider the online transaction to be 
indicative behaviour of an opportunistic fraudster.  Usually, Id expect a fraudster to utilise 
the full balance of a card  making several transactions over a short period.  This would 
allow them to maximise gains before the account holder could notice the transactions and 
block their card.  However, in this in this instance, Mr Ks card was used to make a single 
online transaction with no further alleged fraudulent transactions made or attempted 
between 2 December 2020, and when the card was blocked in late December 2020  which 
to my mind, is unlike an opportunistic fraudster.
Further, Ive seen a proof of delivery document from the merchant showing that the order 
concerned was delivered to Mr Ks address.  Mr K says this is questionable, as there is no 
signature or photograph to support the goods were actually delivered to him.  So, he 
suggests a third party couldve intercepted the order.Having considered what Mr K has said, Im not persuaded that a third party not only 
somehow obtained Mr Ks card and address details to place the order  but also used Mr Ks 
address for delivery with the intention to obtain the order from his home.  Whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Ks point about the order being intercepted, I find this unlikely.  In any 
event, in the absence of  any evidence contradicting the proof of delivery document provided 
by the merchant, I cant fairly conclude, on balance, that the order wasnt delivered to Mr Ks 
address.
In Mr Ks response to our investigators findings, he referred to, amongst other things, 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  As Mr K didnt raise this in his initial complaint 
to NewDay, Im unable to consider this point further.
I acknowledge Mr K strongly denies authorising the online transaction.  However, taking all 
the above factors together, I consider its more likely than not, that he did.  So, it follows that 
Im satisfied NewDay acted reasonably by not continuing with the chargeback process.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman