DRN-3312910
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he bought, in part, using a credit card provided by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in whole or in part, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation here. It says, amongst other 
things, that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was about 
four years old but had completed over 104,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect quite a bit of wear and tear.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect to find that the car had been involved in a 
front-end collision and had sustained the extent of damage listed in the report Mr W obtained 
from the independent garage.
I think that report is more reliable than the report provided from the dealerships MOT 
provider. That cant reasonably be said to be independent, doesnt refer to the vehicle in 
question, is very brief, and isnt dated.
The relevant legislation also says that goods should not be considered unsatisfactory when 
the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made and when that examination 
ought to reveal the faults.
Im not persuaded the faults identified on the independent report would have been evident to 
Mr W. The report lists faults that need to be repaired but no photographs of the faults are 
attached to the report. So, I think it would be unreasonable to suggest the faults were clearly 
evident, but I think there is evidence in the independent report, that there were faults.
As the faults were identified so soon after the car was purchased the relevant legislation 
says we should assume the faults were present when the car was purchased unless Tesco 
can show otherwise. 
Tesco havent provided enough information to dispute the assumption that faults were 
present at the point of purchase and havent provided evidence that the faults ought to have 
been evident during Mr Ws pre-sale inspections. 
So, I think this car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Putting things right
In those circumstances we would usually tell the business to repair the faults. But here Mr W 
has sold the car.
So, Id agree with the investigator that the fairest way to resolve the matter would be for 
Tesco to refund the difference between the sales price (plus valeting and warranty) that Mr 
W paid (8,382.25) and the part exchange value of £6,000. 
But its only fair that Mr W pays for the use hes had from the car. The investigator calculated 
the drop in value of the car using various guides and established that in the 20 months of 
ownership Mr Ws car would have lost £537.50 in value. 
Tesco should therefore refund the difference between the sales price and the part exchange 
value, less £537.50 for fair usage. I calculate that as £1,844.75.
Theyll also need to refund any interest they may have charged on the initial outlay of £250, 
adding interest as Mr W has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
Refund the £1,844.75 I estimate Mr W lost as a result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality after fair usage is taken into account. 
Refund any interest Mr W may have accrued on the £250 deposit he paid. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman