DRN-2243599
The complaint
The complaint 
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not provide an annual 
review of his investments and that the fees charged were excessive. Mr H also complains 
that the service he has received falls below an acceptable standard and that changes made 
to the service meant that he could not access the service when he wished.
What happened
Mr H met with an advisor from Nationwide in 2012 to discuss his financial arrangements. 
This meeting covered a wide range of topics and a fact find was completed which recorded 
Mr Hs financial details and investment aims. A suitability letter was sent to Mr H following 
this meeting.
The suitability letter summarised the meeting and listed the recommendations that were 
made. Mr H acted on some of these recommendations and opened an Investor Portfolio 
Service product which was used to hold the investments that were recommended.
Mr H raised a complaint when the platform provider for the Investor Portfolio Service 
changed parts of the service. This was not a complaint against Nationwide, but Mr H has 
raised some points that were in the original complaint where he feels that Nationwide should 
have done more. The service reviewed this complaint under a separate case and upheld his 
complaint in part. Although the service has considered Mr Hs points already, I will cover off 
his points on how Nationwide have acted in this decision.
Mr H complained to Nationwide on several points including the service that he was receiving 
and the fees that he was being charged. These points were made in a series of telephone 
calls and Nationwide responded but didnt think that they had done anything wrong and 
rejected Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H raised his complaint with the service and one of our investigators reviewed his 
complaint.  The investigator agreed with Nationwide and didnt think they had done anything 
wrong.  Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I wont be upholding his complaint. I recognise that Mr H 
feels strongly about his complaint and I will explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr H says that he expected an annual review of his investments and this has not happened.  
I have reviewed the paperwork that was completed when Mr H opened the Investor Portfolio 
Service product. Mr H paid an ongoing service charge of 0.50% of his portfolio. This was a 
monthly charge and the Tariff of Charges document sent by Nationwide to Mr H lists the 
following services that they will provide:
We will send you an annual customer report every year on the anniversary of your first 
investment which shows how your portfolio is performing
You will be given access to the Personal Finance Portal so that you can check on the internet the 
progress of your investments at any time you choose
We will also send you additional information from time to time so that you can decide whether 
you want to take any action to ensure your money continues to work hard for you
You will have access to a Nationwide financial adviser should you want to review your portfolio 
or discuss any aspect of the advice you have received 
I cant see any reference to an annual review by Nationwide within the ongoing service 
charge, but they do commit to sending an annual statement and from the documentation on 
the file, I can see that this has been provided to Mr H. 
Nationwide also offer access to a financial advisor should a consumer wish to review their 
portfolio. I have not seen any evidence that Mr H asked for a review by an advisor.
The Tariff of Charges document does say that a Portfolio Advice Review is available, but this 
is a separate and additional charge to the ongoing service charge and not a service that Mr 
H paid for. Having reviewed the charges that Mr H paid for, I dont think that Nationwide 
have done anything wrong, so I wont be asking them to do anything.
Mr H says that the fees charges were high in comparison to other providers. It is not for the 
service to comment on commercial decisions taken by a business as they entitled to charge 
for a service. I have reviewed the documentation which was sent by Nationwide to Mr H and 
I think the charges were explained clearly and not hidden or misleading. As Mr H has signed 
up to the service, he has accepted the charges set out by Nationwide, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything.
Mr H says that he experienced rudeness on several occasions when he called Nationwide. 
The adjudicator asked Nationwide for copies of these calls but was told that they were not 
recorded. Nationwide produce call reports following each call and these have been 
reviewed. It is unfortunate that the telephone recordings dont exist but from what I have 
seen, there is no evidence that call handlers were rude to Mr H.
I sympathise with Mr H on this point if he felt that the call handlers were rude to him or 
caused him distress but as I cant see any evidence of this Im not going to ask Nationwide 
to do anything else.
Ive said previously that Mr H has raised a complaint about the platform provider and this has 
been considered by the service who upheld his complaint in part. Mr H has raised some of 
the same points in this complaint but on the role that Nationwide played as they selected the 
platform provider. As Mr Hs points relate to what he feels are the actions of Nationwide, Im 
going to consider them as part of this complaint.
The platform provider made changes to the service and communicated this to Mr H. The 
changes impacted on Mr Hs ability to access funds and he suffered a financial loss as a 
result. Mr H says that Nationwide did not accept any responsibility for these changes and the 
impact that they had on him. 
The investigator has contacted Nationwide specifically on this point and asked if they would 
consider an apology or acknowledgement that the communication could have been clearer. Nationwide have said that as the letter detailing the changes was not made by them, they 
are not going to issue an apology or acknowledgment. 
Mr H also says that Nationwides claim that the service can be accessed 24/7 and 365 days 
is false due to market opening hours and the changes made by the platform provider. Mr H 
says he is aware that he cant trade on a 24/7 and 365 days basis but Nationwide keep 
telling him he can. 
From the documentation that I have seen, there is nothing to suggest that consumers can 
trade 24/7 and 365 days a year but they can access the service on this basis via the Internet 
to view their portfolio. 
I know that Mr H feels strongly on these two issues but I cant see that Nationwide have 
done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman