DRN-2905980
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have unfairly declined a claim he
made under his landlord buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr P holds a commercial property insurance policy with Ageas. In November 2017 he 
was contacted by his neighbours solicitor (Company A). It alleged Mr P was 
responsible for damage to the neighbours property as well as personal injury as a 
result of an oil leak.
Mr P contacted Ageas. In turn it contacted Company A and requested information 
about the alleged damage. A further back and forth followed. Ageas agents attended 
Mr Ps property shortly after. They said the damage originated from faulty repairs to 
his oil tank carried out in 2014. Ageas attempted to contact the company responsible 
for the works, but they were in administration.
Company A began legal proceedings against Mr P. Ageas appointed its own 
solicitors and recommended appointing an expert to produce a report on the leak. 
Company A said the neighbours it represented had moved out of their home as it had 
become uninhabitable  so it said Mr P would be liable for alternative 
accommodation costs.
In December 2018 Ageas appointed expert reviewed Mr P and his neighbours 
properties. They concluded that hundreds of litres of oil had leaked from Mr Ps 
property to his neighbours following the 2014 faulty repair. They identified a 
moderate risk to human health and recommended repairs begin immediately.
In March 2019 Ageas told Mr P that his claim related to the neighbours property and 
personal injury and were not covered by the policy. It said this was because the 
policy excluded claims related to contamination and pollution.
Mr P complained, saying Ageas decision was unfair as it had effectively handled his 
claim for the best part of 16 months knowing it was a pollution claim from the outset.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She agreed the 
policy excluded contamination and pollution, but the circumstances of the claim were  
known to Ageas from the first notification call. But despite knowing this, it continued 
to represent Mr P for 16 months, never indicating the claim may not be covered.
While Ageas said it needed to understand the claim in full before confirming cover, 
the investigator didnt agree in the circumstances given the obvious nature of the 
claim  and she said the report hadnt impacted its decision nor been necessary to 
decide whether to exclude the claim. So, she said Ageas should provide indemnity in 
line with the policy terms up to its policy limit. And it should reimburse him for his own 
legal costs since the date it ceased to act for him including 8% interest.
Ageas disagreed saying it shouldnt be liable for costs it wouldve never covered and 
that its mistakes hadnt impacted Mr Ps position. And instead compensation would 
be a fair resolution. In response Mr P argued that if had told him he had no cover 
under the policy, hed have negotiated a settlement with Company A before court 
proceedings began. He said the proposed repair costs put forward by Company A 
were around £24,000 and he couldve arranged for these to be carried out for less. 
He also said the damage had worsened over time due to repairs not being carried 
out and this added additional claim costs including for alternative accommodation.
The investigator considered these points and concluded Ageas actions had unfairly 
prejudiced Mr Ps position  and it was likely that he wouldve settled the claim 
directly with Company A to reduce costs which he now could not do. She also 
recommended £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P agreed but Ageas didnt. Ive summarised its points in response. 
oMr P may not have been able to negotiate a settlement as he described.
oThe remedial works put forward by Company A may not have covered the full 
extent of necessary works given the extent of later damage found. It said only 
an oil remediation expert would be able to comment on this further.
oIt was unclear whether the neighbour wouldve needed to vacate the property 
for as long as they did had the claim been settled earlier in 2018, given it was 
unclear if remediation had since been carried out.
oIt was likely Mr P wouldve still incurred some legal costs.
oMr P has an obligation to mitigate his losses which it questioned if he had. 
Ageas did agree it would cover costs that have increased as a result of its 
actions. But it said further investigations would need to be carried out to 
determine what avoidable costs were incurred. And that it was unwilling to 
accept all costs for the claim.
The investigator reconsidered but didnt change her mind. She said ultimately Ageas 
had prejudiced Mr Ps position to make any settlement out of court as a result of its 
ongoing involvement. And that it was unclear what expectations Ageas had of Mr P 
after it declined the claim in light of the subsequent court action against him.
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 3 June 2021. Ive included part of this decision below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ageas considered this claim under the Section 3 of the policy  Landlords legal 
liability. This says it will provide:
Up to £2,000,000 unless stated otherwise on Your Schedule for which You 
are legally liable to pay as compensation for accidental death or injury to any 
person or loss or damage to third party property arising directly as a 
consequence of Your ownership of the Property, including defence costs and 
expenses incurred without prior consent.
Since the investigators assessment has been issued, Ageas appears to have 
accepted its actions were prejudicial to Mr Ps situation. However, for the purposes of 
completeness, I will go over these points.It is not in dispute that the policy says it will not cover a claim that arises out of 
pollution or contamination. Nor is there a dispute that this particular claim does 
arise out of pollution or contamination. So, on its face, this claim is one that Ageas 
can exclude in line with the policy terms.
In contextualising what Ill go on to say Im mindful of Ageas duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances of each claim; 
clearly where the cause of damage is unknown, it may be appropriate for an insurer 
to start an investigation to establish if the event is covered by the policy terms.
Mr P first notified Ageas of Company As allegations about oil contamination in 
November 2017. I will not repeat the history of the claim here as it has been 
described in detail previously by our investigator. Ageas recorded it as oil 
contamination but Mr P was not told by Ageas it would not cover the claim until some 
16 months after. And not only was there a delay but Ageas had liaised with the 
neighbours solicitors and instructed an expert to inspect the properties. Im satisfied 
from the first notification call that it was clear, or at the least, very likely that the claim 
would be caught by this exclusion.
I have considered Ageas arguments about considering all reports and understanding 
the claim prior to determining whether cover would be given  but I disagree this is a 
fair account of whats happened. I say this because the exclusion was never 
mentioned or discussed with Mr P in the 16 months prior to the decline and for the 
reasons Ive given above.
Its worth noting that an insurers claim handling duty also extends to providing 
reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information 
on its progress. I dont think its in the spirit of this duty for me to accept that where a 
claim is so obviously not covered by the policy, in fact specifically excluded, that it 
should be without consequence on a fair and reasonable basis. For Ageas to openly 
act as if the claim was covered knowing that Mr P is very likely to be prejudiced by 
lengthy and unnecessary delays is simply not, in my view, treating customers fairly.
For these reasons Im satisfied Ageas knew the nature of the claim, had an 
opportunity to apply the exclusion at the start of the claim and failed to do so. And its 
actions have led Mr P into ongoing litigation that hes said he wouldve avoided had 
he realised he had no legal cover in place.
Mr P has demonstrated he was given an opportunity by Company A to settle the 
claim for a sum of £24,000. And hes suggested he wouldve negotiated this sum. 
While I havent seen anything to suggest this negotiation wouldve been possible or 
successful, it does strike me that Mr P recognised he wouldve incurred a cost in 
settling the claim out of court. And had this claim been handled as it shouldve been  
that is to say, had Mr P been aware from the start that he had no cover under the 
policy  it seems this figure is indicative of a likely sum he wouldve paid to resolve 
the matter.
Ive thought carefully about Ageas arguments in regard to providing cover under the 
policy. But each of the points it has made are based on possibilities and scenarios to 
suggest Mr P wouldve been in a similar position. These arent backed up by anything 
other than opinion and they havent persuaded me that Mr P wasnt prejudiced by 
Ageas actions. Whereas I have seen evidence to show Company A was looking to 
settle the claim for around £24,000. Ageas has said Mr P had an obligation to 
mitigate his losses, and I dont disagree. But Im not satisfied it has demonstrated 
that he has failed to mitigate his losses.For these reasons Im intending to direct Ageas to provide indemnity in line with the 
rest of the policy terms up to the policy limit of £2,000,000 in order to treat him fairly. 
But from this, I think it would be fair for Ageas to deduct a sum of £24,000 from these 
costs. Im satisfied this reflects that the policy would never have covered Mr Ps 
claim, but still recognises the impact of Ageas actions upon said claim, and the 
prejudiced position it has left Mr P in.
Ive considered the impact of distress and inconvenience in this case. For the 
reasons Ive given, Im satisfied Ageas actions has led Mr P into ongoing litigation 
that he otherwise wouldve likely avoided. And while a proportion of these costs will 
be covered by Ageas in line with my direction above  I dont think this accounts for 
the ongoing impact of the proceedings on Mr P. Put simply, these proceedings have 
and may go on for some time. I can understand why this would be a concern for Mr 
P. And also, I cant ignore the loss of expectation he experienced upon discovering 
that his claim wasnt covered in full as hed been led to believe. As a result, Im 
minded to direct Ageas to pay £2,500 in compensation.
Within my decision I gave both parties until 1 July 2021 to reply. 
Mr P replied to say he felt the prospect of him being able to settle the claim for less than 
£24,000 hadnt been seriously considered or had been overlooked. He said the figures had 
been inflated as there was an expectation that an insurer would carry out the works. Hes 
also suggested he wouldve been able to enter into discussions to split the costs, and he 
couldve arranged for work to be carried out himself at an estimated cost of £10,000. Mr P 
has also said he never incurred any legal costs himself as this has been picked up by an 
alternative insurance policy, he holds up to the value of £50,000 which he has provided 
evidence to support.
Ageas requested further information about Mr Ps costs (which were provided) but it hasnt 
provided a response to my decision. It asked for an initial extension until 14 July 2021 which 
was granted. Ageas has since asked for another extension, but Im satisfied it has had 
sufficient opportunity to respond so Ive not granted this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P has put forward his reasons why he believes he couldve settled his claim for 
less than £24,000. Ive taken all of these points on board, but ultimately his 
comments are speculative. So, while I accept its possible, he couldve negotiated 
costs, Ive not been given evidence to support these assertions. So, on this basis Im 
satisfied £24,000 is a fair sum to use when considering the likely costs Mr P wouldve 
incurred in any event.
Mr P has also made it clear that hes incurred no legal costs himself directly as a 
result of a separate policy he has in place. As a result, and in line with my provisional 
thoughts, I wouldnt expect Ageas to cover any costs that have been covered by this 
alternative policy.
My final decisionIm upholding this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
take over and provide cover to Mr P for the claim made by his neighbour in line with 
the rest of the policy terms up to the policy limit of £2,000,000;
reimburse any legal costs Mr P has paid to appoint solicitors to deal with the claim 
from March 2019 to date with 8% simple interest added to these costs. Mr P will need 
to provide receipts of costs he has paid. Ageas will not have to pay any legal costs 
incurred that have been covered under his separate insurance policy;
from the above costs that Ageas will take responsibility for, it can deduct a sum of 
£24,000 to reflect the costs Mr P wouldve likely incurred; and
pay Mr P £2,500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman