DRN-4371565
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has dealt with a claim on 
his buildings insurance policy. He says there have been long delays and Admiral hasnt done 
enough to put things right.
What happened
Mr K contacted Admiral following an incident in May 2021 when his neighbour advised she 
had suffered a flood in her basement and this caused damp problems in his home. He was 
concerned there might be some subsidence. 
Admiral said the damp was caused by ground water, not a leak, and this wasnt covered by 
the policy. Mr K disputed this and complained about Admirals decision not to cover the 
claim. He said there were issues with subsidence and asked Admiral why it wasnt dealing 
with this.
Admiral asked a loss adjuster to consider the subsidence issue. In March 2022 Admiral told 
Mr K it needed to liaise with his neighbours insurers about the possibility that there was 
subsidence caused by tree roots. Mr K obtained his own reports about the tree, which 
indicated the tree roots were causing problems.
In September 2022 Admiral told Mr K the neighbour had repaired the pipe which had caused 
the leak, so there should now be some stability. But it would need to monitor his property for 
signs of subsidence. Admiral said it would do this for four months.
In October 2022 Admiral sent a final response to Mr Ks complaint about the way it had dealt 
with the claim up to this point, saying:
it accepted it was responsible for some avoidable delays, but there was more than 
one possible cause of the problems, so it needed careful investigation and liaison 
with the neighbours insurers before any action could be taken;
it would pay compensation of £1,000 for the delays with the claim and £50 for a delay 
replying to his complaint; and
the advice was that further monitoring was needed, so this would be done before any 
further action could be taken.
Mr K remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator said Admirals response to the complaint and payment of £1,050 was a fair 
way to resolve things. So she didnt think Admiral needed to do any more to address this 
complaint. 
Mr K says he hasnt cashed the cheque Admiral sent as he doesnt accept that things have  
been resolved. In reply to the investigators view he made further comments, including:
Admiral decided only to monitor for four months, and included an internal 
plasterboard wall as one of the walls to be monitored, even though that wouldnt be 
of any use;
it still hasnt carried out a ground investigation or drainage survey, which are needed 
before any repairs are done;
the neighbours clams were dealt with properly and repairs have already been done.
The investigator considered Mr Ks further comments but didnt change her view. She said  
this complaint only covers events up to the response issued in October 2022 and any 
concerns Mr K has about whats happened since then need to be addressed by Admiral 
before we can look into them. Admiral has confirmed it is dealing with a complaint about later 
issues.
Mr K says: 
he raised issues about the damp in the cellar in 2021 but Admiral has never dealt 
with the repairs;
the monitoring being carried out is inadequate, and the contractors dealing with this 
have never even mentioned the tree;
Admiral has had two years to put things right but has still failed to do so;
he wasnt looking for compensation  what he wants is for the problems to be 
investigated properly and any necessary repairs carried out;
he didnt cash Admirals cheque, partly because that wasnt the aim and partly 
because he feared that doing so would be another excuse for Admiral to waive any 
responsibility to deal with the problems.
As no agreement has been reached, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Where repairs are to be carried out, these need 
to be effective and lasting.
Admiral initially said the problem was caused by ground water, which is not covered by the 
policy. It later accepted the claim was covered and thats not in dispute. The issue that 
needs to be addressed is the way Admiral went about dealing with the claim, in particular the 
time taken to investigate and the compensation offered  bearing in mind its duty to deal with 
claims promptly and fairly. 
In this decision Im only dealing with actions up to the final response Admiral sent to Mr K in 
October 2022. So Ive considered what action Admiral took up to that point.
The policy says Admiral will settle claims by paying the cost of rebuilding, repairing or 
replacing any damaged part of the buildings covered under this policy. The policy terms 
give Admiral the option of rebuilding or repairing the damage, or paying the estimated cost of 
repair.
Admiral needed to carry out investigations into the cause of the problem, since there was 
more than one possible cause. It had to liaise with the neighbours insurers and consider the 
evidence provided. All of that would inevitably take some time. There was some avoidable 
delay, particularly at the beginning when Admiral said it wouldnt accept the claim. But the compensation offered is a fair amount to acknowledge that. Mr K didnt cash the cheque that 
was sent to him but I think it would still be fair for Admiral to pay that compensation. 
By October 2022 the advice was that the building needed to be monitored to see if there was 
movement. So it was reasonable for Admiral to decide the next step would be to carry out 
the monitoring. Admiral needed to be sure of the position, to ensure any repairs would be 
effective and lasting. I wouldnt expect it to carry out repairs before these investigations were 
complete.
I appreciate Mr K had concerns about the monitoring and that repairs havent yet been 
carried out. I understand the monitoring was extended beyond four months. But I cant 
comment further about whats happened since October 2022  the ongoing issues will need 
to be addressed separately. Once Admiral has provided its response Mr K may refer those 
issues to this Service as a fresh complaint if he remains unhappy. 
Mr K has said hes suffered a loss in value of this property; he wanted to sell his house but 
couldnt do so while the claim was held up and in the meantime property prices have fallen. 
Theres little evidence of this. In any event, even if Admiral had dealt with the claim earlier, 
bearing in mind the investigations that needed to be carried out its unlikely the claim would 
have been resolved and the property sold by October 2022 - especially as other parties are 
involved and Admiral needed to see what action was taken by them before the claim could 
move forward.
I understand Mr Ks frustration at how long things have taken. But I think the compensation 
of £1,050 is fair for the delays in the period up to October 2022. As Ive said, any further 
issues since then would need to be considered separately if Mr K isnt able to resolve those 
with Admiral.
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,050 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay £1,050.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman