DRN-3182345
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr S fell victim to a scam in 2016. In 2017 he reported the matter to his bank, which 
advised it couldnt help with the transactions in dispute, couldnt raise a chargeback 
and s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 didnt apply to the transaction. 
NatWest issued its final response about that on 16 November 2017. As Mr S didnt 
refer his complaint about that to us within six-months, we told Mr S his complaint had 
been referred too late, and I understand he received a decision from one of our 
ombudsmen determining that. 
Mr S tried to resurrect his chargeback claim with NatWest in 2019; he said he 
provided new evidence and wanted a new final response providing new referral rights 
to this office. NatWest declined to consider the matter again. 
Mr S asked us to look into the matter. We explained we couldnt look into the earlier 
complaint again as that matter had already been decided by an ombudsman. And we 
explained we couldnt look at his complaint that NatWest had declined to provide new 
referral rights as complaint handling wasnt an activity we could consider. 
Mr S clarified his complaint was in relation to NatWest not raising a chargeback when 
he provided new evidence about the merchant in 2019. And so we proceeded on 
that basis. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as any chargeback claim raised in 2019 
would have been outside of Visas time limit rules. 
Mr S disagrees, says we have misunderstood his complaint; and that he did raise the 
matter with NatWest initially, well within Visas time limits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
overall conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr S has already had a decision from one of our ombudsmen, who decided his 
complaint about the disputed transactions, the declination to raise a chargeback, and 
that s75 didnt apply to his transaction, had been referred to us out of time and so 
wasnt a complaint we could consider. So far as any of Mr Ss submissions relate to 
those events, or what happened at that time, that isnt something we can consider 
now  they have already been decided to fall outside of our jurisdiction. I will 
therefore not be commenting on any of those events or revisiting earlier matters, to 
do so would be to act outside of my powers.
My consideration is therefore solely limited to whether NatWest was acting fairly and 
reasonably when declining to raise a chargeback when Mr S presented new 
information in 2019. 
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card providers  in this case Visa. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been 
able to resolve matters themselves. This arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  set by Visa  and so there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can be raised, and it has to be done within set time limits. 
Whilst a chargeback could be raised for the situation in which Mr S found himself, 
NatWest could only have successfully presented his chargeback claim had it been 
raised within 120 days of the transaction, or when he was expecting to receive the 
goods or services paid for. This is subject to an overriding limit of 540 days from the 
date of the transactions.  Mr S provided new evidence to NatWest in 2019, three 
years after the transactions took place and so well outside of the 540-day overriding 
time limit. 
Whether or not Mr S initially raised his chargeback in time isnt something I can 
consider as it falls outside of our jurisdiction for the reasons already given. And its 
largely irrelevant, as this was a new chargeback request based on new information.  
My consideration is solely in relation to whether the latest chargeback claim he 
requested be raised in 2019 was in time. And for the reasons given above, it wasnt. I 
therefore dont find that NatWest was acting unfairly or unreasonably in not raising a 
chargeback. It follows that I dont find NatWest did anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly about this matter, quite understandably.  But Im limited 
to what I can consider given this offices previous consideration of this. Despite my natural 
sympathy for the situation in which he finds himself, I can only uphold Mr Ss complaint if I 
find NatWest did anything wrong. And for the reasons given, I havent. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman