DRN-3818196
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) refused to pay a claim 
on his motor insurance when his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr D had motor insurance with Admiral. His car was stolen and he made a claim on his 
policy. In his claim Mr D said he drove to a private house to pick up an item hed bought from 
the homeowner, which had been left outside. Mr D said he switched off the engine, closed 
the door and opened the boot so he could put the item hed bought in the car. He said he left 
the car keys in the ignition as he was charging his phone. The car doors werent locked. Mr 
D said he turned his back to pick up the item, and the thief jumped into the car and drove off. 
Mr D said he was only two or three metres away from the car.
Admiral refused to pay the claim, saying that Mr D had left the car unoccupied with the keys 
in the ignition, so under the terms and conditions of his policy he wasnt covered.
Mr D wasnt happy with this decision and complained to Admiral. Admiral didnt uphold his 
complaint. Admiral said the terms and conditions of his cover specifically stated that cover 
wouldnt be provided if the vehicle was left unlocked or insecure. Admiral said that as the 
theft was a direct result of Mr Ds failure to adhere to the terms of his agreement it had no 
option but to repudiate his claim, which meant it was unable to deal with it.
Mr D wasnt happy with Admirals response so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint. The investigator said he didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable for Admiral to say that Mr D had left his vehicle unattended, as he was there 
throughout the incident. And although he turned his back he remained in close proximity to 
the car, and his presence right next to it would have acted as a deterrent to most thieves. So 
the investigator said Admiral should settle the claim, add interest and also consider the 
stolen personal belongings that were in the car, in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Admiral didnt agree with what the investigator said, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr D wants at least the value of his car back. He says he also lost many possessions 
which were in the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
On 1 November 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds Car Insurance Guide from Admiral said:
General conditions
You and any other insured person must:

Remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle, if it is left 
unoccupied.
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy 
being cancelled.
If an incident happens which is directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by any of the 
following:

Your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured.
No cover under the policy will be given
The Insurance Product Information Document said:
You wont be covered if you leave your vehicle unlocked or unsecured.
So the terms and conditions of the policy exclude claims in these circumstances. However 
this service also looks to see whether such an exclusion clause is fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of the case. In particular we look at where the vehicle was at the 
time and whether the driver was in a position to deter the thief or make a theft unlikely.
If the driver left the vehicle and wasnt in a position to intervene or deter the thief then were 
likely to say the car was unattended. And if the driver left the key in the car, and theres an 
exclusion clause saying theres no cover if this happens, were likely to agree the insurer is 
entitled to reject the claim. But well always consider if there were any special circumstances 
that caused the driver to leave the vehicle with the keys in it, for example if an accident 
happened right in front of the car and the driver got out to help.
Mr D says he parked his car outside the house on the kerb and the seller put the item in the 
courtyard outside the front door. Ive seen a picture of the outside of the house where Mr D 
says he made the collection. Theres a wide pavement, a low fence with gates and a front 
garden or courtyard between the road and the front door of the house. I think Mr D was too 
far away to intervene or deter the thief when he picked up the item. He also had his back to 
the car. Mr D says he left the keys in the car because he was charging his phone. I dont 
think that this amounts to the sort of special circumstances where someone might 
reasonably leave keys in a car.
Finally, we also consider whether the keys in car exclusion (which we think is a significant 
exclusion) was drawn to the consumers attention when the policy was sold. For example, 
we think its good practice for an insurer to produce some sort of policy summary or key facts 
document which includes this clause as a significant exclusion or limitation.
Admiral sent Mr D an email when he took out the policy, and when it renewed, asking him to 
review all the policy documents, which included the documents Ive quoted from above. In 
particular, Admiral provided him with the Insurance Product Information Document, which is 
a short document and clearly sets out the exclusion clause on the first page.So I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on the exclusion clause and refuse to 
pay the claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I dont intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint. So I dont intend to 
ask Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision. He responded in detail and Ive considered his 
comments very carefully. However Mr D reiterated the points he has made throughout his 
complaint. He didnt provide any new information. So based on the evidence I dont think 
theres any reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. So I wont be asking Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman