DRN-3536973
The complaint
Miss A complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) failed to 
refund money she lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated firm such as Cashplus that Miss As account was being subjected to 
unusual and uncharacteristic activity. Two large payments of £2,276.45 and 
£2,730.69 were both made to an international cryptocurrency platform on 28 October 
2020 in quick succession (where the funds were then subsequently transferred on to 
the scammer, Askobid). This took her account from a balance of over £5,000 to just 
£130. 
I appreciate that the first payment would not have necessarily been considered 
unusual in and of itself, so I dont consider an intervention was necessary at that 
point. However, once the second large payment had been made on the same day, 
there were reasonable grounds to suspect fraud or a scam, as making more than one 
large payment to the same payee in quick succession is a common hallmark of a 
scam  particularly where it is going to a cryptocurrency platform. Im satisfied there 
were reasonable grounds for Cashplus to have suspected a fraud or scam and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as contacting Miss A to ask further probing 
questions about the nature and purpose of the payments).
If Cashplus had contacted Miss A and asked her further questions and for more of 
the basic surrounding context, I think its likely she would have explained what she 
was doing and that she was being told make payments to a third party investment 
broker through a cryptocurrency platform, after having downloaded remote 
access/screensharing software. All of these factors are typical features of these sorts 
of investment scams, which shouldve prompted Cashplus to warn her that she was 
at risk of financial harm.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Miss A by Cashplus would have probably led 
her to discover the various scam warnings online and exposed the merchants false 
pretenses. Cashplus could have asked Miss A to check the legitimacy of the broker 
on the FCA website, for example, where she would have discovered a warning about 
Askobid that had been in place since July 2020 stating that they were not regulated. 
Even if Miss A had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning 
would have alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to investment scams, 
which in turn would have revealed the truth behind the supposed brokers 
representations. This would have probably stopped Miss A in her tracks. So, but for 
Cashplus failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Miss A 
probably wouldnt have made the second payment of £2,730.69.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Miss A was 
to blame for what happened; that she did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or 
any harm. Miss A had previously invested money with the fraudster and was able to 
withdraw it before she made the payments from her Cashplus account, which is a 
common tactic used by scammers to encourage people to invest larger sums. I do 
not think Miss A could have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with 
was a scam and the trading account she was viewing was likely to be a simulation. In 
the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis 
that she should share blame for what happened.
I note that Cashplus didnt pursue a chargeback claim through the Mastercard 
scheme after Miss A originally disputed the payments. However, given that she had 
failed to dispute the payments within 120 days of them being made, she would have 
been out of time for a chargeback claim to have been made. The payments were 
also not made directly to the fraudulent merchant and were instead sent through a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform. Therefore, even if Miss A did raise her dispute in 
time, it wouldve had very little prospects of success as she had essentially received 
the goods/services she had paid for (i.e. the exchange of her money into 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont consider Cashplus acted unreasonably when it decided 
not to pursue a chargeback claim in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to:
Refund Miss A the payment of £2,730.69 she made to the scammer, along with any 
international transaction fees charged as a result of the payment. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this sum from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman