DRN-3739029
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund him the 
full funds he lost out as a result of a safe account scam. 
What happened
Mr H says he was called by someone he believed to be from his bank. The caller told him 
someone was trying to commit fraud on his account and that to trick the fraudsters, he 
needed to make dummy payments from his account to safe accounts. He was told his 
account would be frozen whilst he was doing this. 
After the first payment of £8,600, Mr H was encouraged to make a second payment which 
flagged on Halifax systems and the bank stopped the payment. Halifax agreed the first 
transaction was slightly unusual compared to Mr Hs usual activity and offered to refund 50% 
of the transaction (£4,300) as it felt it could have done more to stop the payment. However, it 
felt Mr H should share responsibility. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt there were enough red flags about the 
caller and considered Mr H didnt do enough to check the legitimacy of the caller. As well as 
not checking the number, Mr H allowed the caller remote access to his online banking. She 
also said that the warning the bank provided (while accepting it wasnt an effective warning) 
was relevant to Mr Hs circumstances and explained how this exact situation was a scam. 
She also concluded that the payment was unusual, and Halifax accepted it shouldve 
intervened - which is why it had refunded 50% of the payment.
Mr H didnt agree. His representative said Mr H was primed for this scam and he is not 
someone that should be held to the same standards as someone who is familiar with how a 
bank interacts with its customers when fraud is committed.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have reimbursed Mr H under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt enough 
for him to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, a 
bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis to believe he was making legitimate payments?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
H and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Halifax has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr H made are enough to support its position that Mr H isnt 
entitled to a full refund of his loss under the CRM Code. Ill explain why I have reached this 
conclusion.
Ive thought about what both sides have said and provided. In particular I have considered 
Mr Hs occupation and circumstances in which he received the call. As I understand it, he 
was travelling was in between jobs at the time and pulled over to take the call. In addition, he 
had recently been called by a banks fraud department regarding possible fraud on his 
account. Its not clear to me whether this earlier call was genuine or in some way connected 
to this scam  but suffice to say at the time the call  a call from one of his banks fraud 
department didnt come out of the blue for Mr H. Ive also taken into account that there is no 
standard of care or specific responsibilities placed on customers via the Code. 
Taking in everything into account, whilst I think its finally balanced, overall, I dont consider 
Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing the person he was transacting with was legitimate. 
I say this because: 
The scammers called from two random UK mobile phone numbers and not the 
banks official number. A quick search of these by our investigator revealed 
connections with a scam. I dont necessarily think Mr H would have had time to check 
these numbers in the moment of the call like this. In any event, I note Mr Hs 
representative more recently said that the call came through Bluetooth, so Mr H did 
not see the number on the screen when they called. But this reinforces the fact that 
he really didnt know who was calling him.
By his own admission, Mr H didnt ask the caller to prove who she was until much 
later in the call. When Mr H first reported the scam to Halifax, he told Halifax that the 
caller only gave him information about himself after he'd given them access to his 
device and signed into his online banking for them. Although I note more recently his 
representative says he didnt actually know hed allowed the caller access to his 
device. But his representative did confirm Mr H was sent a link which he clicked on 
believing this would secure his device. In the circumstances, I still think clicking on a 
link is something Mr H ought reasonably to have been wary about.
Whilst I dont think the warning Mr H saw was effective for the purposes of declining 
the claim in full under the CRM Code, Ive still considered whether it ought 
reasonably to have entered his thought processes. The warning did start by using Mr 
Hs first name and then asked, do you know this person well? We'll never call to tell 
you to move your money to another account. And we'll never call from the number on 
the back of your card. If you get a call like this, hang up the phone. I think there were 
aspects within this warning that ought reasonably to have resonated with Mr H and the situation he found himself.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr H may not have been familiar with the banks fraud processes, 
I think there was enough going on to have raised concerns about the legitimacy of the caller 
and the reasons for making the payment. I acknowledge that there could be an explanation 
behind each of the points Ive mentioned, when they are all taken into consideration together 
and holistically, I think there was enough going on to question and check things further. It 
seems that even when the bank stopped a second payment going through, asking Mr H to 
call them, Mr H proceeded to make the payment from his other bank account.
Did Halifax meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
Halifax has already accepted it could have done more to protect Mr H from becoming a 
victim of a scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP (automated push 
payment) scam risks in a payment journey, they should provide effective warnings to their 
customers. 
Halifax did provide a warning and although I cant see it has accepted the warning wasnt 
effective  it has agreed to pay Mr H 50% of the loss  which is what I would expect in 
circumstances where the warning wasnt effective. Ultimately whilst I think the warning was 
good in some respects, the warning did not warn of the consequences or making an 
irrevocable payment. So, I think it was right for Halifax to make this offer.
Under the CRM Code where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the 
customer didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the person they were transacting with 
was legitimate, each party must accept equal responsibility. In these situations, the CRM 
Code requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the losses  which is what 
Halifax has done.
Did Halifax do enough to recover Mr Hs funds?
Ive also considered whether Halifax took reasonable steps to recover Mr Hs funds once it 
was made aware, he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made at 15:52 on 10 
December 2021 and Mr H reported the scam to Halifax later that day at 18:25 and Halifax 
contacted the receiving bank shortly after - but only £10.01 remained. This was recovered 
from the receiving bank and refunded to Mr H on 17 December 2021. The beneficiary bank 
confirmed no further funds remained. 
Im sorry Mr H has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would 
like to be compensated for more of his losses. I do accept he has fallen victim to what can 
only be described as a cruel and callous scam. But Im only considering whether the bank, 
which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened 
and whether it is fair to hold it responsible for all of Mr Hs losses when there were signs that 
things were not quite right.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Kathryn MilneOmbudsman