DRN-3866194
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt refunded the premium they 
paid for an age extension on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In September 2021, Mr and Mrs R upgraded their travel insurance policy to include an age 
upgrade. They paid an additional premium for the upgrade. This add-on cover lasted for 12 
months.
Mr R travelled abroad but cut short his trip due to continued concerns about Covid-19 at his 
destination. As Mrs R considered she was at high-risk of suffering complications of Covid-19 
if she contracted it, she decided against travelling. As neither Mr nor Mrs R felt theyd had 
the benefit of the age extension, they asked UKI to refund the additional premium theyd paid 
for it.
UKI didnt agree to refund Mr and Mrs Rs additional premium. It said that the policy terms 
and conditions stated that refunds for upgrades would only be paid if the upgrade was 
cancelled within 14 days and if a policyholder hadnt travelled or made a claim. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs R had been outside the cooling-off period and Mr R had travelled. UKI also 
indicated that Mr R had made a claim on the policy. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it 
paid Mr and Mrs R £75 compensation.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy schedule set 
out Mr and Mrs Rs upgrade cancellation rights. He noted that the cancellation request had 
been made outside of Mr and Mrs Rs cooling-off period and that Mr R had travelled during 
the period of cover. So he didnt think it had been unfair for UKI to decline to refund Mr and 
Mrs Rs premium. He felt the payment it had made of £75 had been fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. In summary, Mrs R felt that the situation surrounding Covid-19 at 
her planned destination meant she and Mr R couldnt travel. Therefore, she felt UKI should 
provide a refund of the additional premium she and Mr R had paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Mr and Mrs R have also complained about 
another upgrade they purchased at the same time as the age upgrade. I have considered 
that complaint point in a separate decision, at UKIs request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I dont think UKI has treated 
them unfairly and Ill explain why.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between UKI and Mr and Mrs R. The policy terms say that if a policyholder is aged 70 or 
over, theyll need to purchase an age upgrade before booking a trip, in order to have any 
policy cover. Its common ground that in September 2021, Mr and Mrs R purchased the age 
upgrade and paid an additional premium for it. This cover was due to remain in place until 
September 2022.
The policy terms and conditions explain a policyholders upgrade cancellation rights and Ive 
set these out below:
The account holder can cancel any upgrades at any time by calling our customer helpline. If 
the account holder cancels an upgrade before it is due to start, or within 14 days of the start 
date or the date you receive your documents, whichever is later, we will return any premium 
you have paid in full as long as no insured person has travelled or made a claim. If the 
account holder cancels an upgrade after 14 days have passed, we will not provide an 
upgrade.
Following the age upgrade, UKI sent Mr and Mrs R a policy schedule. I can see that this 
document also set out Mr and Mrs Rs cancellation rights. The schedule says:
You can cancel any upgrade within 14 days of purchase or receipt of documents (whichever 
is later) and receive a full refund, as long as you have not travelled or made a claim during 
that period.
In this case, Mr and Mrs Rs age upgrade took place on 10 September 2021. However, UKIs 
notes show that Mr and Mrs R didnt request a premium refund until November 2021. This 
was around two months after the upgrade took place and the request was therefore made 
outside of the cooling-off period. Its also clear that Mr R did travel after the upgrade had 
been purchased, even though I accept the trip was cut short. So I think it was fair for UKI to 
conclude that under the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr and Mrs R werent entitled to 
any refund of their age upgrade premium.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs R feel strongly that they couldnt travel due to the risk of Mrs R 
contracting Covid-19 and Ive considered this carefully. I dont doubt how frustrating it was 
when Mr and Mrs R werent able to use the upgrade in the way that theyd planned. But its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if an insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So it isnt unreasonable for UKI to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during the upgrade period. While I can 
appreciate why Mrs R didnt want to travel, it remains the case that she and Mr R would 
have been able to travel abroad had they wished to  the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office hadnt advised against travel to their destination. 
And Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs R purchased the upgrade around 18 months 
after the Covid-19 pandemic had begun. At this point, both the risks of Covid-19 and the 
impact of it on international travel were well publicised. So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct UKI to refund the premium they paid for the age upgrade.UKI has paid Mr and Mrs R £75 as a gesture of goodwill and it appears that this was 
because it felt Mrs Rs concerns should have been treated as a complaint earlier than they 
were, following a call in August 2022. I find this award was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to recognise any impact this delay had on Mr and Mrs R.
Overall whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could tell UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman