DRN-4283715
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) overdraft charges caused him financial difficulty 
and kept him in a cycle of debt. He is particularly unhappy with the unplanned overdraft 
charges applied between 2008 and 2011. 
What happened
Mr H holds an account with a £600 overdraft with TSB. Mr H complained to TSB about the 
overdraft charges applied to his account. TSB said it couldnt look into the charges applied 
prior to April 2017 as Mr Hs complaint was raised too late. Although TSB didnt think an 
error had been made on its part in the charges applied to Mr Hs account post 2017 it agreed 
to refund the interest Mr H paid in the six months before raising his complaint. 
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt think we could look at the charges 
applied to Mr Hs account prior to 2017 because he raised this element of his complaint too 
late. They thought Mr H wouldve been notified of the charges around the time they were 
applied and thought at that time Mr H ought to have known enough to decide whether he 
thought they were unfair and that he had reason to complain. Following a review of Mr Hs 
statements for the past six years, our adjudicator didnt think there were signs of financial 
difficulty that shouldve prompted TSB to treat Mr H any differently. 
Mr H disagreed  he says there were many occasions he complained to TSB about the 
charges and made it aware of his financial situation and that TSB ignored him. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
Why I cant look into this complaint before April 2017
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case TSB hasnt provided consent. Mr Hs complaint was made in April 2023 in 
relation to overdraft charges dating back to 2008. Six years before he raised his complaint is 
April 2017. So under the six year rule we can only look at overdraft charges applied  the 
events complained about  from April 2017. So I need to think about whether the complaint 
was made within three years of when Mr H should reasonably have been aware he had 
cause to complain. 
When applying this rule Mr H doesnt need to know the specifics of the complaint  just that 
something may have gone wrong. And I need to consider whether a reasonable person in 
his circumstances should really have known they had reason to complain. 
Mr H by his own admission says the overdraft charges caused him financial difficulties and 
kept him in a cycle of debt. He specifically refers to the period from 2008 to 2011. Mr H also 
says he raised this with TSB on many occasions over the phone and when visiting a branch. 
So its clear to me that Mr H has known for a number of years the overdraft charges were 
causing him financial difficulty  yet he only raised a complaint with TSB in April 2023.
TSB have provided us with its internal records and notes and there is no record of Mr H ever 
raising a complaint with it regarding its overdraft charges or any financial difficulties Mr H 
may have had. But I can see that an account Mr H had with TSB was closed in April 2012 
and the outstanding balance of around £3,000 transferred to its consumer debt recovery 
team where it was written off. 
I think at this point a reasonable person would have likely questioned whether the overdraft 
charges applied to their account was causing them financial difficulty and making their 
situation worse. So I think it is likely Mr H wouldve known enough around the time his 
account was transferred to debt recovery whether the overdraft charges were affordable and 
whether the charges were keeping him in debt. 
Three years from this is April 2015. As this doesnt provide with Mr H with a longer period of 
time to complain about the overdraft charges applied it means we can only look at Mr Hs 
overdraft from April 2017 (6 years prior to Mr H raising his complaint). 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances, but as Mr H hasnt informed us of 
any exceptional circumstances that may apply and because he didnt make his complaint in 
time my decision is that I am unable to look into his complaint regarding overdraft charges 
prior to April 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Mr H says that the charges TSB applied to his account kept him in a cycle of debt. TSB 
wouldnt have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Hs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances from April 2017 (the period we can look at) 
where TSB didnt treat Mr H fairly and reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Mr H 
unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this because despite what Mr H has told us, TSB 
has no record of Mr H contacting it about having financial difficulties and having looked at Mr 
Hs statements, I cant see anything to suggest for the period being looked at that TSB ought 
to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to Mr H raising his 
complaint. 
Mr H may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But although I can see Mr H used his overdraft facility, I can also see that there 
are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions  
in particular on takeout and other leisure spending.
There were regular credits and cash transfers into the account and Mr H was able to bring 
the overdraft down and often pay it off before once again going on to use his overdraft to make debit card transactions, at times large money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept 
this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr H wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to any 
potential financial difficulty. And although there were short periods of time where Mr H didnt 
see a credit balance Mr H was able to keep within his limit. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Hs account was being used. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think TSB treated Mr H unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman