DRN-3307258
The complaint
Mr E, on behalf of H (a limited company) complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly 
declined a claim H made on a business insurance policy.
What happened
H operates a licenced premises and insured the business with Allianz. One of the sections of 
the policy provides cover for the loss of the licence, subject to terms and conditions of the 
policy. The background to whats happened here is well known to both parties but Ive 
summarised it briefly below.
Following an incident at the premises in September 2020, the police issued a closure 
order.
The local licensing sub committee suspended the licence on an interim basis, 
pending a full review hearing.
At the full review hearing, the suspension was lifted.
H made a claim on its policy for the gross profit it had lost out on during the closure 
period.
Allianz declined cover for the claim as the policy cover excluded claims for the loss of 
licence where the licence had been suspended following police objections. 
H complained to Allianz and when it rejected his complaint, referred it to our service.
Our investigator concluded that Allianz had acted fairly in declining the claim.
H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hs policy provides cover for the loss of gross profit resulting from the premises being closed 
due to the loss of its licence. The policy terms and conditions detail an exclusion which its 
agreed by both parties is the basis for Allianz declining cover. The exclusion states that 
cover will not be provided where the closure results from forfeiture, suspension or 
withdrawal of the licence following police objections, unless the licence is subsequently 
withdrawn by the licensing authorities, subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and 
exceptions of this policy.
As Allianz is seeking to rely on this exclusion in declining the claim, the onus is on Allianz to 
show that this applies to the circumstances of Hs claim.
In the absence of any definitions in the policy terms and conditions, I have to take the 
ordinary and normal meaning of the words in the exclusion. Theres no definition in the terms 
and conditions of suspension, withdrawn or police objections and it seems to me that these 
are significant words in making my decision.
There are two parts to the exclusion. The first is that theres no cover provided where the 
licence is suspended, forfeited or withdrawn following police objections.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Hs licence was suspended, but H says that this 
didnt follow police objections. I dont agree. The premises were issued with a closure notice 
by the police following the incident in September 2020 and then three days later the licence 
was suspended by the local licensing authority. 
Ive reviewed the written decision of the committee which suspended the licence, and this 
says, in part, that The Police have raised that they have concerns that if the premises 
remain open then there is the risk of something happening in the future and therefore it is 
proportionate for the licence to be suspended and the committee agrees. I also note that the 
decision documents that H said the licence should not be suspended and invited the 
committee to do nothing other than amend some conditions. 
In light of this, I think its fair to say that there is a direct link between the decision to suspend 
the licence and the polices objections to the premises remaining open. The police had 
closed the premises, and then at the meeting raised concerns about the premises continuing 
to operate. The decision draws a direct line between these concerns and the decision to 
suspend the licence. Im satisfied that the comments attributed to the police in the 
committees decision fit within any ordinary meaning of police objections  the police have 
opposed the licence remaining in effect.
Im satisfied that the licence was withdrawn following police objections. That being settled, Ill 
move on to consider the second part of the exclusion.
This second part provides an exception to the exclusion, in that it wont apply if the licence is 
withdrawn by the licensing authorities. Theres no dispute that around two weeks after the 
suspension of the licence, it was reinstated after H made changes to how it operated and the 
police and licensing committee agreed that these were suitable to allow H to operate again.
Its been suggested that the exclusion is ambiguous. I dont agree with this. I think its clear 
that the clause envisages a process around the removal of the licence which will involve 
several stages. The first being the suspension, withdrawal or forfeiture of the licence 
following police objections, with the second being the final decision of the local licensing 
authorities to withdraw the licence following a meeting. The licence was suspended, not 
withdrawn. 
Im satisfied that the normal meaning of withdraw, being synonymous with remove, take 
away or cancel, applies here. What the exclusion is saying is that theres no cover if the 
licence is suspended or revoked following police advice, unless the suspension or revocation 
is subsequently affirmed by the licensing authorities  as its only the licensing authorities 
that can make such a decision.
Ive also considered whether its fair and reasonable for Allianz to rely on this exclusion. H 
argues that it isnt, as it effectively punishes H for taking action and incurring costs to have 
the licence restored  if it hadnt taken such steps the licence may have been withdrawn at 
which point the second part of the exclusion would become effective, meaning the exclusion 
wouldnt apply.
I think its fair for Allianz to rely on the exclusion. In any claim, its a policyholders duty to 
take action to mitigate their loss. Regardless of any insurance cover, its to be expected that 
H would take steps to allow the licence to be returned so it could re-open and trade normally. 
But there may also be occasions where even reasonable steps to mitigate the loss and 
attempt to return the licence are unsuccessful  the police and local licensing authorities 
may not agree to return the licence and permanently withdraw it. In such a situation, the 
second part of the exclusion would apply and a claim may be successful. Simply because H 
has taken steps to have its licence returned, and these have been successful, incurring not insignificant costs in doing so, doesnt make it unfair for Allianz to rely on the exclusion and 
decline the claim.
I conclude that Allianz acted reasonably in referring to the exclusion and declining cover for 
Hs claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman