DRN-3513924
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Creation Financial Services Limited handled his chargeback 
claim, and his claim under section 75.
What happened
Mr C hired a car from a retailer and paid using his Creation credit card. An issue arose over 
sums charged to Mr C in respect of additional hire and damage charges.
Mr C disputed the charges but was unable to resolve matters with the retailer, so he raised a 
disputed transaction with Creation.
Creation investigated Mr Cs concerns about the charges. In its final response it advised Mr 
C that it couldnt perform a chargeback and that, based on the information provided, it 
couldnt agree that the situation qualified for a refund under section 75.
Mr C wasnt happy with Creations response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think Creation had acted 
unfairly by not processing a chargeback because it was likely to be successfully defended. 
The investigator also said he didnt think Creation had acted unreasonably by not raising a 
section 75 claim because there wasnt enough evidence to show that there had been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed returned the car to the retailer on 20 December 2021 and 
that the damage for which he was being charged mustve been caused after that date 
because he returned the car with no damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons below.
How Creation handled the chargeback
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against possible chargeback reasons, to see what sort of evidence is required and 
under what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful 
claim for the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit claims, and they will only do so if 
they believe they have evidence which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be 
successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to 
raise a chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mr Cs request to Creation to raise a chargeback to see whether of not 
Creation acted reasonably when it refused to raise a chargeback.
Mr C has said he returned the car to the retailer on 20 December 2021. Hes said that he 
was abroad from 20  25 December 2021 and that he asked the retailer to collect the car 
from his driveway. Mr C told this service that he handed the keys to the retailer on 20 
December and the car was driven away.
The retailer has said that it collected the car from Mr C on 13 January 2022, and that the 
damage was identified when the car was collected.
Its important to say that Im only looking at whether Creation has acted fairly here. Im not 
looking at what the retailer has done, or whether the damage identified exceeded fair wear 
and tear. In order to raise these issues, Mr C would need to raise a complaint with the 
BVLRA.
Based on the information that was available to Creation at the time, I dont think it acted 
unfairly by not processing the chargeback claim. The information provided by Mr C was 
conflicting, and the photos he provided of the car before it was collected were of poor quality. 
The evidence provided by Mr C made it unlikely, in my view, that the chargeback would be 
successful. I dont think Creation did anything wrong when it refused to raise a chargeback.
This service would expect a card issuer to consider whether there was a claim under section 
75 if it declines to process a chargeback. I can see that Creation considered the claim under 
section 75, so Ive looked at whether Creation acted reasonably when it declined to raise a 
section 75 claim.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Cs company, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr C hasnt said theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether the evidence 
supports a breach of contract.
Ive looked at the photos of the car provided by Mr C. Ive also considered the emails which 
passed between Mr C and the retailer. 
The relevant law says theres been a breach of contract if the goods supplied arent of 
satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. There can also be a breach of contract if a party to the 
contract fails to do something it shouldve done or doesnt provide the services it contracted 
to provide with reasonable care and skill.
Ive taken account of all of the available information. Based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract. The 
real dispute here is about the charges for the damage. If Mr C had evidence to show that the 
damage wasnt present when he returned the car, then the charges might be unfair. But in 
this case, and aside from the differences between Mr C and the retailers as to the date when 
the car was collected, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the damage wasnt 
present when the car was collected.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Creation acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the chargeback or the section 75 claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman