DRN-3758326
The complaint
Ms B complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd declined her 
claim for her dogs treatment under a policy exclusion as her dog was overweight. She thinks 
this is unfair as her dogs injury wasnt related to her weight and she wants them to pay her 
claim.
What happened
Ms B has insurance for her dog with C&G. In November 2021 the dog sustained an injury to 
her left hind hock after falling, or jumping, off her sofa and landing awkwardly. Ms Bs vet 
describes the injury as a minimally-displaced medial malleolar fracture with near-perfect 
reduction, and a subtle distal fibula fracture. Ms B has told us that her dog made a complete 
recovery from her injury without needing surgery.
Ms B made a claim for the cost of her dogs treatment which C&G declined. They said the 
claim wasnt covered as the policy excludes any claims resulting from the dog being 
overweight.
Ms B complained to C&G about her claim being declined. She provided a letter from her vet 
saying her dogs injury wasnt related to her weight. The vet said this type of injury isnt 
unusual in dogs of normal weight and was a result of landing awkwardly. So he thought the 
claim should be covered.
C&G said that from the dogs veterinary records it was clear Ms B had been told the dog was 
overweight at appointments from 2018 to 2021. And on 21 October 2021 it was noted that 
she was weak on all limbs due to being overweight. C&G said that an overweight dog can 
experience issues with joint mechanics and with inflammation throughout the body. The by-
products of which can alter the enzymes that keep cartilage and connective tissue healthy, 
which can lead to degeneration in the cartilage and joints.
And as the dog was noted to be weak on all her limbs due to her weight, they believe this 
increased the likelihood of sustaining an injury after falling off the sofa. So they maintained 
theyd been correct in declining Ms Bs claim despite her vets comments.
Ms B wasnt happy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and 
said that although Ms B doesnt dispute that her dog is overweight, he was persuaded by the 
evidence from her vet that her injury was one any dog could have sustained. So he said 
C&G should pay Ms Bs claim for the cost of her dogs treatment, which is £888.25 after 
deduction of her £90 policy excess and the 15% co-payment due to the dogs age. He also 
said C&G should pay Ms B £150 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result 
of her claim being wrongly declined.
Ms B was happy with our investigators opinion, but C&G werent so the case has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The veterinary records for Ms Bs dog confirm that she is overweight, and Ms B doesnt 
dispute this. But she says this isnt relevant to the injury her dog sustained. Her vet has 
confirmed that in his opinion the dogs weight wasnt a factor in her injury. 
He's said We are treating her fractured/dislocated hock joint, which resulted from an 
awkward impact with the ground after she jumped or fell from a sofa. Injuries of this type are 
not uncommon in under, normal and overweight dogs and cats sadly, and result from a joint 
being loaded at an abnormal angle, leading to injury to its support structures  in this case 
the bones. 
And I do not consider that her overweight status is a factor in causing this injury, as I 
understand that she had jumped down from this sofa a number of times previously with no 
issue, meaning her leg was more than capable of withstanding the impact with the ground 
when this happened in a planned and predictable way. She broke her leg when she landed 
awkwardly.
So Ms Bs vet is quite certain that the dogs injury was due to an awkward landing, rather 
than to her weight. And hes satisfied that her leg could have withstood the impact with the 
ground, had she not landed awkwardly.
Ms Bs policy excludes cover for Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically 
overweight or underweight and this results in Your pet needing treatment as a result of not 
being the recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by 
a vet.
C&G refer to an entry in the dogs records dated 21 October 2021 which says she was weak 
on all limbs due to being overweight. They say this increased the likelihood of her sustaining 
an injury in a fall.
Ive considered this but on balance Im persuaded by the opinion of Ms Bs treating vet whos 
said that her dogs injury was due to an awkward landing, and this could have happened 
regardless of her weight.
Ive also considered C&Gs comments about the impact a dog being overweight can have on 
their cartilage and joints. But theres no evidence from the veterinary records Ive seen of 
any issue with the dogs joints or cartilage, or that her injury arose from anything other than 
an awkward landing.
It follows that I dont think C&G acted reasonably in declining Ms Bs claim for her dogs 
treatment. 
To put things right I require them to pay her £888.25, which is the cost of her dogs treatment 
less the policy excess and 15% co-payment. And I require them to pay £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience she suffered as a result of her claim being declined.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint about 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd.And to put things right I require them to pay her £888.25 in respect of her dogs treatment 
and £150 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of her claim being 
declined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman