DRN-4313291
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
administered her credit card account. 
What happened
Miss A has complained that Virgin Money didnt notify her a direct debit wasnt collected to 
pay her credit card in November 2022. She says this led to a missed payment being 
recorded on her credit file. It looks like Miss A contacted Virgin Money in December 2022 as 
it had tried to speak to her. She made the payment to clear the arrears and complained 
shed not been told about the missed payment, and she questioned why Virgin Money didnt 
try to take the payment again. The agent said Miss A would have been notified on the app. 
Miss A said she had the app but wasnt using it as she wasnt actively using the card at that 
point.
Virgin Money sent a final response letter in December 2022 saying it didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said Miss As bank had been unable to honour the direct debit. It said this 
usually happens because of a lack of funds but Miss A would need to speak to her bank to 
check. Moreover, it said it let Miss A know about the missed payment on the statement 
produced following it. It said it had not made an error with regard to the missed payment. 
And it said reporting the missed payment to the credit reference agencies was accurate.
Miss A wasnt happy and referred her complaint to our service to consider. Shes also 
mentioned Virgin Money didnt tell her an interest free period on her credit card was ending. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt make any recommendations. 
He said the statement dated 21 November 2022 informed Miss A the agreement was in 
arrears. He also said the consequence of missing the payment was explained to Miss A on 
the statement. So he thought Virgin Money had notified Miss A about the arrears and the 
implications of this. Our investigator also said the missed payment had no impact on 
Miss As interest free period. He said the interest free period for purchases ended on 
15 October 2022 and for balance transfers on 21 October 2022. This was before the 
payment was missed. 
Our investigator said if Miss A is unhappy about the notification of the interest free periods 
ending, shed need to take this up with Virgin Money in the first instance because it hadnt 
had the chance to respond to that particular complaint. Finally, he said unless Miss As bank 
had made an error in paying the direct debit, he couldnt recommend the credit file is 
amended. 
Miss A responded to say she wasnt notified about the missed payment until her credit file 
had already been impacted. She said at the time she was going through financial difficulties 
and that she was under a lot of pressure. She said she understands Virgin Money may not 
have the resources to contact all customers in the same situation but why did it contact her 
in December to explain what had happened. Miss A explained she had no other returned 
direct debits until this time. And that Virgin Money could have tried to take the payment 
again. She asks why she wasnt notified by text message as well. She also wanted to 
reiterate she didnt use the Virgin Money app at that time. She had no statements from it or 
any other notification. She also says she wasnt told if a payment was missed, she was able 
to make the payment on the app. She says this hasnt been addressed by Virgin Money. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has complained about how Virgin Money administered her regulated credit card 
agreement. Our service is able to deal with complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
As a starting point, like our investigator pointed out, I wanted to highlight that this decision is 
relating to the complaint points that Virgin Money has had the opportunity to consider. 
Having looked at the evidence, the complaint points initially raised I can see it considered 
relate to the notification of the missed payment, and the impact of it not being made. So this 
is what I will focus on. If Miss A is unhappy about anything else, shed need to take this up 
with Virgin Money in the first instance, so it has the chance to respond. If shes unhappy with 
its response it may be something our service is able to consider for her. 
Ive first reviewed what Virgin Moneys terms and conditions say about statements. These 
say:
8.1 Each month there is a payment into or out of your account or
there is a payment due on your account, we will let you know that
there is a free statement which you can view and download in the
app. If you have also requested a free paper statement we will
post it to you.
8.2 You are responsible for checking your statement each month.
You must tell us straight away if:
> you do not receive a statement when you expect one.
> you are not able to access your statement.
> you think something on your statement is wrong.
8.3 We may get in touch about your account using any contact
details we hold for you.
So while I appreciate Miss A says she didnt receive notification of the missed payment, 
Virgin Money has shown us a copy of the statement that refers to the missed payment. 
Miss A had the option to request a free paper statement. Virgin Money has said at 
application stage customers are informed the account will be set up for e-billing. And that 
each month a statement is issued online, it emails customers to inform them. Its shown us 
an email delivery report which indicates it emailed Miss A on 22 November 2022 with a 
subject Your Virgin Money Credit Card statement. So, based on the evidence, it looks like 
Virgin Money did what it said it would do. 
In any event, Miss A was directed to contact Virgin Money if she didnt receive a statement 
when she expected one. So I cant see Virgin Money has acted unfairly here, or not acted in 
line with the terms of the credit card account. Moreover, I think theres some responsibility on 
Miss A to make sure her payments are made. 
With regards to what happened when the payment was missed, Virgin Moneys terms and 
conditions say:
11.1 If we do not receive the Minimum Payment by the payment date,we will apply the late payment default charge set out in our Tariff.
We will also let Credit Reference Agencies know you have not
paid and this could make it more difficult for you to get credit.
If you continue to miss payments, we may apply for a court order
(an inhibition order if you are based in Scotland) to enforce
payment of the total balance, for example, from your income
or the sale of your property (which may include your home).
Alternatively, we may sell the debt and the buyer may follow a
similar process to recover the amount you owe.
Having considered this, Ive not seen anything that says Virgin Money was required to 
contact Miss A by other means when it didnt receive the payment as expected. While I 
appreciate certain other organisations may do this, Ive not got the grounds to say Virgin 
Money hasnt done something it agreed to. Moreover, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Virgin Money would seek to take the payment again (again, like some other organisations 
might do). So I cant say its acted unfairly here either. Although I can understand why 
Miss A was disappointed.
Ultimately, based on what Ive seen, Im sorry to see theres been a missed payment 
recorded. I think Miss A genuinely didnt realise until it was too late. But I have to bear in 
mind Virgin Money has issued the statements in line with what it said it would do in its terms 
and conditions. It tried to take the payment using the direct debit, but this wasnt successful. 
Miss A hasnt said this was down to an error with her bank either, so I presume the funds 
werent available. Ive not got sufficient evidence Virgin Money was required to make further 
attempts to speak to Miss A, or to try to take the payment again. So I dont find I have the 
grounds to say Virgin Money has acted unfairly, or that it needs to remove the missed 
payment from Miss As credit file. While I can understand why shes unhappy, and that she 
tells us shes not had any other issues with making payments, Virgin Money is required to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies and the missed payment is 
accurate. So based on what Ive seen, Im not going to direct it to take any further action
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman