DRN-4198846
The complaint
Mr A complains that he didnt receive a statement from Santander UK Plc in relation to his 
credit card account. He also complains about some of the service he received during a 
phone call with Santander.
What happened
Mr A says he didnt receive a paper statement Santander says it sent to him on 28 February 
2023. Mr A doesnt think Santander should be using the specific postal service it does to 
send statements as he feels this method of sending post is unreliable. Mr A confirmed that at 
the time Santander say it sent the statement, he was receiving other post and had received 
statements from other account providers. 
Santander resent Mr As statement through the post and explained it could take between 7-
10 working days to arrive. Mr A raised concerns about being charged interest or fees for late 
payment  he wanted to review the statement before paying the balance. And given the 
timescales involved, he might not receive the statement before the payment due date. 
A representative of Santander got in touch with Mr A and provided him with his statement by 
email. They explained that it couldnt issue the statement in this way regularly.
Mr A also complains about some of the service he received from Santander when he spoke 
to them on the phone. He says he had to go through security with one agent, and he was 
told the call would be transferred to another team on a warm handover basis. Mr A was 
asked security questions again by the new agent, which Mr A wasnt happy with. 
Santander responded to Mr As complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that it had sent 
the statement via the postal service on 28 February 2023, and again on 15 March 2023 
when Mr A notified it that he hadnt received the first statement. It said it couldnt say why the 
statement hadnt been received, but that as this wasnt the first time this had happened, that 
Mr A should consider contacting the postal service. It also apologised that Mr A was taken 
through security again when his call was transferred  it explained that depending on what 
the call is about, sometimes further security checks need to be completed.
An Investigator also looked into Mr As complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They explained 
they couldnt find that Santander had done anything wrong when issuing the statements. 
They also thought it was reasonable of Santander to have let Mr A know about other options 
to find out the payment amount and/or view statements. 
Mr A didnt agree with the Investigators view. Because an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I wont be upholding Mr As complaint.
Santander has explained that once a statement is produced it automatically gets printed 
from the system  so if the statement is viewable, then its likely to have been printed and 
sent. Santander has been able to show me the statement that is dated the 27 February, with 
Mrs As address on it, so on balance, I think its more likely than not to have been sent to Mr 
As address. While I dont doubt that Mr A didnt receive the first statement sent on 28 
February, Im not persuaded that this is as a result of something Santander did wrong.
I have noted Mr As concerns with Santanders decision to use a certain postal service, 
which he feels are unreliable. This is essentially a matter for Santanders own commercial 
discretion and not something this service would generally interfere with. Firms are generally 
entitled to make commercial decisions, such as the postal service it uses  there isnt 
anything inherently unfair or unreasonable about this. While I accept that it must have been 
frustrating for Mr A to not have received his statement, I dont think this is as a result of 
something Santander has done wrong. 
I can see that Santander provided Mr A with other ways he could access his statements, 
which included going into branch or using online banking. I know Mr A doesnt want to utilise 
these other options. But I think Santander has been fair in providing alternative means of 
viewing the statement.
I appreciate that Mr As preferred method of receiving statements would be via email  with a 
password protected document. While Santander did do this for Mr A on a one-off occasion 
so he could receive the missing statement quickly, it doesnt currently offer this service as a 
permanent way to receive statements. Again, I dont find its decision not to do this to be 
unfair  given that there are other options available.
I have listened to the call where Mr A had to go through security a second time. Its clear that 
Mr As expectation was that he wouldnt have to do this again. The agent explained why they 
needed to take Mr A through security again. I appreciate that this fell short of Mr As 
expectations, and while it might have been frustrating, I dont find that this was likely to have 
caused Mr A much inconvenience. 
Based on everything Ive seen and listened to I dont think Santander needs to do anything 
more for Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman