DRN-3791963
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to honour an interest 
only mortgage it had previously agreed to and didnt provide any financial support despite 
being told of their circumstances.
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T says in November 2020 Barclays agreed to an interest rate switch offer on 
an interest only basis on their mortgage, for a period of two years. Mrs T and Mr T says 
despite this Barclays wrote to them in January 2021 to inform them their mortgage was 
reverting back to a capital and interest basis, meaning a substantial increase in their 
contractual monthly payments (CMP), which they couldnt afford. Mr T says he contacted 
Barclays about this and informed them of their financial vulnerability, but Barclays did 
nothing to support them and continued to chase for payment of arrears and simply directed 
them to a phone number to contact. 
Mrs T and Mr T want Barclays to stop chasing them for the arrears, to provide help and 
support to take into account their financial situation, and for it to explain how it can withdraw 
the offer of a two- year interest only mortgage. 
Barclays says it apologised for the confusion created over the interest rate offer, issued in 
November 2020 and offered Mrs T and Mr T £150 by way of an apology. Barclays reiterated 
Mrs T and Mr T didnt qualify for an interest only mortgage and they should contact its 
customer home assistance team to see what support could be made available to them. 
Mrs T and Mr T wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says while it was made clear to Mrs T and Mr T that the interest only 
arrangement was only temporary, this was unclear when Barclays issued the mortgage offer 
in November 2020, when the interest rate product was changed. The investigator also felt 
Barclays could have done more to support Mrs T and Mr T when it became aware of their 
financial difficulties and could have extended the interest only arrangement for 12 months, 
rather than the three months it agreed in November 2020. 
The investigator felt Barclays should re-calculate and adjust the mortgage to show the 
interest only concession being in place for 12 months from November 2020 and for Mrs Ts 
and Mr Ts credit file to be amended to reflect this. Furthermore, the investigator asked 
Barclays to come to a payment arrangement with Mrs T and Mr T to repay any arrears that 
would have accrued post November 2021 and increase the compensation offered to £300. 
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can see that Mrs T and Mr T have been through a difficult time financially and were like 
many others, impacted by the effects of the Covid pandemic and that must have been a 
stressful time for them both. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted fairly when it reverted Mrs T 
and Mr Ts mortgage back to a capital and interest repayment method in February 2021, 
from the interest only (IO) concession it had previously put in place. Additionally, I will look at 
whether Barclays could have done more to support Mrs T and Mr T after the IO concession 
had come to an end, and whether it was right of Barclays to mark their credit files when it 
did. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both business and customers alike. 
Its worth saying that Barclays have provided this service with a sizeable amount of 
correspondence and phone calls and while that has proved useful, I wont be commenting on 
every piece of correspondence provided as I dont think thats necessary for me to come to a 
full and impartial decision. Thats not to say I havent listened to all the phone calls and 
considered the information provided - I have. 
I should say that Barclays did provide support back in May 2020, when it was told by Mrs T 
and Mr T they were struggling due to the Covid pandemic. At this point I can see Barclays 
agreed to an initial three month Covid payment holiday and this was extended by a further 
three months until October 2020, in line with the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority  and that is what I would expect here.  
I have listened to a call recording from October 2020, during which Mr T explains he wasnt 
able to meet the CMPs due from November 2020. During that call Mr T asked what options 
were available to him, as he didnt want his credit file affected and then went through a 
comprehensive income and expenditure profile with a Barclays advisor. It was clear during 
that call, Mr Ts income couldnt meet his current expenditure and Mrs T and Mr T were only 
just able to meet their mortgage payments, if an IO option was agreed.  
During the same telephone call, Mr T enquired if his mortgage could be changed to a 
permanent interest only basis and was told that he wouldnt qualify for this and theyre very 
difficult to get. So what is clear at this point is Mr T was made fully aware this option longer 
term wasnt available, and more importantly that the IO concession was just that, for three 
months, which was subsequently confirmed in writing to both Mrs T and Mr T on 13 October 
2020.
Where matters get confused here is shortly after the temporary IO concession was agreed, 
in November 2020, it seems via their own broker Mrs T and Mr T applied for a new interest 
rate product on their mortgage, which was approved and confirmed in writing by Barclays. 
So, while Mrs T and Mr T might have believed this was an agreement to change the 
mortgage to IO, it wasnt. The fixed rate interest product is separate to the mortgage itself 
and at the time the new interest product was applied for, the mortgage was on a temporary 
interest only basis, as previously advised and discussed with Mrs T and Mr T. 
That said I agree the letter sent by Barclays could have been clearer, but I cant see that Mrs 
T and Mr T ever applied for a change to their mortgage repayment basis, nor why they would do that,  given only a few weeks before, Mr T was told they wouldnt qualify for it. That said, 
given the letter about their mortgage and interest rate product issued in November 2020 
wasnt clear, I agree Barclays should apologise and offer a compensation payment, which it 
has.
What seems to have happened once Mrs T and Mr T were made aware that they needed to 
commence with the CMPs from February 2021, a complaint was raised by Mr T and 
correspondence over this ensued without either party discussing a practical way forward. Mr 
T says he received telephone calls and letters from Barclays about the arrears and 
complained about this. That said, its not clear why Mr T didnt contact the phone number for 
the customer home assistance team provided to him, who may have been able to help. I say 
this bearing in mind by this juncture, Mrs T and Mr T had been informed, even if they didnt 
agree, that an IO mortgage wasnt in place and CMPs needed to resume. 
Having said that, like the investigator Im of the opinion rather than Barclays simply referring 
to a home assistance team and responding to the complaint about the mortgage letter, it 
could have been a little more proactive. I say this because it had become clear Mrs Ts and 
Mr Ts financial position was difficult and it could have agreed an appropriate payment plan, 
as it would have pre any Covid guidance. 
Where I disagree with the investigator is how matters should be put right, and its not for me 
to tell Barclays it must agree a 12-month interest only concession, post a six-month Covid 
holiday having already been agreed.
So here, I am satisfied a more practical outcome would be to consider what in all likelihood 
should have happened in February 2021 after the temporary IO mortgage arrangement had 
come to an end and Mrs T and Mr T not being able, at that time, to be in a position to 
commence the capital and interest repayments. I would expect that most banks, Barclays 
included, at that point would in all likelihood, have put in place a payment plan, perhaps 
reviewed regularly in light of Mrs Ts and Mr Ts changing financial situation, to take into 
account any arrears outstanding. Such a payment arrangement of course would mean this 
would be recorded with the relevant credit reference agencies as that would only be fair, but 
this is potentially less damaging than missed payments or arrears being recorded. 
While Mrs T and Mr T nor Barclays may not be happy with my provisional decision, I am 
satisfied this is a more appropriate outcome here. 
I gave both Mrs T and Mr T and Barclays until 29 September 2022, to accept or reject my 
provisional decision. Both parties have responded to my provisional decision and so the 
case has been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
Both Mrs T and Mr T and Barclays have accepted my provisional decision, although 
Barclays wanted to clarify some of the points I have made regarding the actions it needed to 
take. Barclays have pointed out it will report to the credit reference agencies (CRA) that an 
arrangement was in place from February 2021, replacing what was previously reported as 
missed payments. Barclays have made the point it has no control on what the CRAs will 
show and its possible that Mrs Ts and Mr Ts arrears will also be reported by them. 
I understand the point Barclays make here and all I can ask them is to report to the CRAs a 
payment arrangement was in place from February 2021 and not report missed payments, as 
this type of marker would be potentially more damaging to Mrs T and Mr T. After all its fair to 
say, even with a payment arrangement in place that wouldnt have prevented arrears 
accruing, only that an agreement was in place to temporarily support Mrs T and Mr T, and 
perhaps I could have made that clearer in my provisional decision.Barclays have also agreed to discuss a payment plan, but this would be subject to 
affordability being assessed based on Mrs Ts and Mrs Ts monthly disposable income. 
Barclays have made the point that if the affordability assessment shows surplus income it 
would be able to provide solutions for the current arrears, but if not Mrs T and Mr T would 
need to seek independent financial advice. I understand the point Barclays make here and I 
agree this makes sense in the circumstances. In my provisional decision, what I was asking 
for was an agreeable and workable payment plan to be put in place, clearly that can only be 
done based on affordability. To clarify, what is important is that Barclays show support to 
Mrs T and Mr T at this time and provide guidance on what to do next if there is a negative 
monthly disposable income position, following those discussions.
Taking these points into account I have made a slight change to my provisional decision for 
the point of clarity regarding the actions Barclays need to make. Where I said :
I propose Barclays remove any missed payments marked on Mrs Ts  and Mr Ts credit file 
and request the credit reference agencies to replace this with a payment arrangement 
marker from February 2021. Barclays should also discuss a payment plan with Mrs T and Mr 
T, following an affordability assessment to deal with the mortgage arrears or to provide 
advice to them of what steps to take if a payment plan isnt possible, due to a negative 
monthly disposable income position. 
I propose that Barclays should also pay the £150 it previously offered to Mrs T and Mr T.
I gave both Mrs T and Mr T and Barclays until 27 October 2022 to accept or reject my 
second  provisional decision, which on mutual agreement was extended until 4 November 
2022. Both parties have responded to my second provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have ultimately agreed with my second provisional decision but have made the 
point it cannot tell the CRAs how they report a payment arrangement on its credit files. To 
be clear here, I am simply asking Barclays to inform the CRAs that a payment arrangement 
was in place from February 2021. I say this as that is different to advising the CRAs of 
missed payments that werent authorised, instead these should be advised to the CRAs as 
a mutually agreed payment plan for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Mrs T and Mr T didnt agree with my second provisional decision and they have asked that I 
tell Barclays how to deal with their arrears going forward and remove the arrears flag on their 
mortgage account. Additionally, Mrs T and Mr T have suggested that Barclays consider their 
financial vulnerability and collect the arrears balance over the remaining term. Mrs T and Mr 
T says the investigators original suggestion of £300 by way of compensation was more 
appropriate than the £150 proposed in my provisional decision. 
I understand the points Mrs T and Mr T make here, but its not for me to tell Barclays how it 
must deal with the arrears that have accrued on the mortgage account, all I can ask and as 
Barclays have agreed to, is for both parties to discuss a workable way forward based on a 
comprehensive affordability assessment being completed, taking into account Mrs Ts and 
Mr Ts current financial position - I am satisfied that is in the best interests of both parties 
here. 
As far as removing the flag on their mortgage account that Mrs T and Mr T refer to, I have asked Barclays to let the relevant CRAs know a payment arrangement was in place from 
February 2021 and these werent missed payments, and thats for the CRAs to accurately 
record. That said even if a payment arrangement had been agreed in February 2021, that 
wouldnt have prevented arrears accruing and needing to be dealt with at some point. 
Mrs T and Mr T have also asked me to tell Barclays it must agree to a new interest rate 
product applied for in October 2022, via their broker, but that wasnt part of their original 
complaint to this service  so thats not something I can consider. That said its fair to say as 
the mortgage account is in arrears as explained before, part of the discussions to be held, 
should include what interest rate product is appropriate going forward, on the understanding 
any new payment arrangement is affordable. Afterall if an affordability assessment shows a 
shortfall, then Mrs T and Mr T may need to consider independent financial advice. 
Mrs T and Mr T believe the £150 offered by Barclays isnt sufficient for the trouble and upset 
here and the £300 suggested by the investigator is more appropriate. But here, the redress 
proposed refers to whether or not Barclays letter regarding the interest rate product in 
November 2020 was clear enough and I agreed perhaps it could have been clearer. That 
said, I am satisfied that alone wouldnt warrant a higher level of compensation than the £150 
Barclays offered, after all, as I previously explained, Mrs T and Mr T would have been 
reasonably aware they wouldnt be eligible for an IO type mortgage. 
With that in mind I see no need to fundamentally change or add to my provisional decision 
and so my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to advise the appropriate credit reference agencies that a 
payment arrangement plan was in place from February 2021 rather than missed payments. 
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to discuss a payment plan with Mrs T and Mr T, following 
an affordability assessment to deal with the mortgage arrears or to provide advice to them of 
what steps to take if a payment plan isnt possible, in the event of a negative monthly 
disposable income position.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the £150 it previously offered to Mrs T and Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to advise the appropriate credit reference agencies that a 
payment arrangement plan was in place from February 2021 rather than missed payments. 
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to discuss a payment plan with Mrs T and Mr T, following 
an affordability assessment to deal with the mortgage arrears or to provide advice to them of 
what steps to take if a payment plan isnt possible, in the event of a negative monthly 
disposable income position.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC  to pay the £150 it previously offered to Mrs T and Mr T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman