DRN-3294539
The complaint
One of the executors of Mrs Os estate has complained about a lifetime mortgage she and 
the late Mr O held with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. He believes that the mortgage was 
unsuitable and that most of the money it provided wasnt needed. The executor also believes 
that the documentation from the time of the sale is inadequate and doesnt demonstrate that 
the adviser understood Mr and Mrs Os situation adequately in order to be able to provide 
suitable advice.
The executor has also said that documentation suggests that the adviser persuaded 
Mr and Mrs O not to involve him (as a family member) in the discussions in order to allow the 
mortgage to be sold, as he would have objected to it. He said that he considers 
Mr and Mrs O were not financially adept and has implied that he thinks the adviser took 
advantage of that. He also considered that the interest rate was egregious, and the manner 
in which the whole process was conducted comes across as an exercise in misdirection of 
two elderly people. The executor has also suggested that Mr O wasnt mentally capable of 
entering into the contract.
What happened
In early 2003 Mr and Mrs O approached Aviva for advice. It completed a fact find to establish 
their circumstances, needs and requirements. They were both retired, in their 70s and had a 
joint income of £16,000. It was recorded that all but £232 of their income was spent on 
normal outgoings. Their only liability was their existing mortgage of slightly over £35,000, 
which was due to run for another 17 years and cost them £194 per month. 
Mr and Mrs O expressed the wish to repay their mortgage, have money to maintain their 
home and an additional monthly income. This was expanded later in the document to 
confirm that they wanted £35,000 to repay the mortgage, buy a new car for £15,000 and an 
additional £6,000 per year to pay for help around the home and garden. They wanted to 
generate a lump sum of £80,000 to provide for these needs. It was documented that 
discussions were had with Mr and Mrs O about ways to meet that need. They werent 
expecting any inheritances or money from the maturity of investments, and didnt have 
savings or investments that could be used. They also said they didnt want to move home 
and create the funds they needed by downsizing. 
Mr and Mrs O were asked about the risks they were willing to take in order to achieve their 
objectives. They selected a risk profile that said You are prepared to accept some risk or 
eroding the equity within your property for the benefit of having sufficient capital to utilise 
now, whilst aiming to retain some equity.
An illustration for the lifetime mortgage was given to Mr and Mrs O. This gave details of the 
mortgage, including fees and the interest rate that would likely by charged. There were also 
figures given for the amount that would be owed on the mortgage after 5,10 and 20 years. 
Some estimates of how much money would go to the estate after the mortgage was paid off 
were also give, based on house prices remaining the same and increasing by set 
percentages over the term. These figures showed that as little as £57,000 could be left to 
their estate after 20 years. 
The adviser recommended they take a lifetime mortgage to release the money they wanted 
from their home. It was confirmed that they wanted to borrow £80,000 and this was the 
amount they would need immediately and over the following five years, which was the next 
time Aviva would consider offering further borrowing. This was over £30,000 less than Aviva 
would have been willing to lend to them, based on how much Mr and Mrs Os house was 
worth. 
It was confirmed that they didnt want a conventional mortgage as that would mean tying up 
more of their disposable income, which they didnt want to do, and they didnt want to 
downsize. The adviser also confirmed that Mr and Mrs O declined to have someone else 
present at the meetings, because they wanted to keep the matter private. Aviva, highlighted 
that in deciding to go ahead with the mortgage it would affect the value of Mr and Mrs Os 
estate and the amount that would be passed on to their beneficiaries after death. The 
adviser also documented that holding funds on deposit over the longer term would represent 
poor value for money, as the interest on a deposit account would likely be less than the 
interest accrued on the mortgage.
Mr O predeceased Mrs O. Following her death, her executor complained about the sale of 
the mortgage.
Aviva responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that it was happy that the 
mortgage was suitable for Mr and Mrs O. It also said it was happy that alternative ways of 
raising the money they wanted were discussed and they were aware of how the mortgage 
worked, including the addition of compound interest.
The executor didnt accept what Aviva said and further correspondence was exchanged. He 
set out why he thought there had been no need for any of the money released from the 
property, including stating that there had been no existing mortgage to be repaid. As Aviva 
didnt change its decision, the complaint was referred to this service. When doing so, he 
provided a savings account statement showing that Mrs O had a balance of c£64,000.
When our investigator asked questions about the timing of the complaint, the executor 
explained that Mr and Mrs O hadnt involved the executor in their finances and had, by the 
time the mortgage was taken out, become secretive about their finances. This was despite 
both of the executors (and family members) being involved in the financial services industry. 
It was confirmed that Mr and Mrs O didnt discuss the mortgage with the executors before 
they took it out and didnt tell them it existed at the time. When they did tell the executors 
about the mortgage, they wouldnt provide any details.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
The executor didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He maintained that he didnt think 
that Aviva did the right thing in lending as much as it did to Mr and Mrs O. He said that the 
statement in the recommendation letter that they had discussed the mortgage with their 
family was a lie and believe that this was a lie on the part of Aviva to justify it having done a 
suitable job. The executor said that Mr O had been diagnosed shortly after the sale of the 
mortgage with a neurodegenerative disorder and dementia, implying that he was not capable 
of understanding the mortgage he was committing to. Mrs Os ability to understand the 
mortgage was also brought into question, due to her having had a limited education. The 
executor maintained that while the money to repay the existing mortgage might have been 
justified, none of the rest was. 
The investigator considered the executors further comments, but he didnt change his 
conclusions about the circumstances of the sale. In response to the comments about Mr Os 
health, the investigator highlighted that Mr and Mrs O had been asked about their health and they had both told the adviser about physical medical situations. Neither of the conditions the 
executor had raised were mentioned, which the investigator considered would have been if 
they had been an issue at the time. The investigator also confirmed that, while the executor 
had said that the purchase of a car was not possible, there was no evidence from the time 
that Mr O wasnt allowed to drive.  
The executor again disagreed with the investigator. He explained what he considered the 
advisers duty was toward Mr and Mrs O. Effectively, the executor considered that the 
adviser should have assessed what Mr and Mrs O wanted to do with the money they 
planned to release and challenged them if the adviser thought their reasons werent good 
ones. He reiterated that no car was bought from the money and Mr and Mrs O didnt need 
any money to meet expenses, as these were met from their incomes. The executor also said 
that he was offended by the investigator taking Avivas word over his, in relation to whether 
Mr and Mrs O discussed the mortgage with their family. He repeated that this didnt happen 
and said that had it been, he would have challenged their plan to borrow money against their 
home. It was asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor has said that he doesnt consider that the documentation from the time of the 
sale is good enough to support the sale of Mr and Mrs Os mortgage. As our investigator 
explained, the sale of this mortgage took place before mortgages were regulated. This 
means that the current requirements and standards for documentation and information 
werent in place when the mortgage subject to this complaint was sold. When I assess a 
complaint, I must apply the requirements and standards that were in place at the time. In this 
case, that would be good industry practice from the time and the requirements of the Safe 
Home Income Plans (SHIP) scheme, which Aviva was a member.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. This is especially so when there is no involvement in a complaint from the 
individuals who were a party to the discussions. So unless theres a compelling reason to 
believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it. I havent been 
presented with any good reason not to place reliance on the documentation from the time of 
the sale.
I have noted the executors comments regarding Mr Os health and the implication that he 
had already lost capacity by the time the mortgage advice was given. As our investigator 
pointed out, Mr and Mrs O were asked by Aviva about their medical situations and they 
provided information. Both told the adviser about physical illnesses. The executor has 
confirmed that the neurological disorder and dementia that Mr O was later diagnosed with 
werent known about at the time and hes provided no medical evidence that supports his 
contention that Mr O had reduced capacity in 2003. 
Also, as again the investigator pointed out, the role of the solicitor in the process was to 
ensure that Mr and Mrs O understood the mortgage they were taking and its implications on 
their finances and estates. If there had been any indication that Mr O lacked capacity, the 
solicitor wouldnt have signed the SHIP certificate and the mortgage couldnt have gone ahead. In light of the lack of contemporaneous evidence of Mr and/or Mrs Os lack of 
capacity, I cant conclude that the mortgage was mis-sold on that basis. 
The executor has made much of the comments from the time of the sale that Mr and Mrs O 
had discussed the matter of the mortgage with their family and that they didnt want to have 
anyone with them during the conversations. I dont think these statements are contradictory 
as the executor has indicated, as the fact that they didnt want someone with them during the 
discussions doesnt mean that they didnt have separate discussions with their family outside 
of that process. That said, I accept what the executor has said in relation to no discussions 
having taken place with Mr and Mrs Os family. However, that doesnt mean that the 
statement from the time of the sale was made-up by the adviser, as the executor has 
implied. The adviser would be entirely reliant on what he was told in this regard and it would 
have been inappropriate of him to have questioned Mr and Mrs Os word about this issue. 
I would also comment that the fact that Mr and Mrs O chose not to discuss the mortgage 
with their family in 2003 doesnt appear to have been at the instigation of the adviser. The 
executor has confirmed that at the time Mr and Mrs O hadnt been interested in discussing 
their arrangements with their family and even when the existence of the mortgage had come 
to light at a later date, continued not to want to do so. Mr and Mrs O were entitled to make 
that decisions and I cant hold Aviva responsible for their choice in that regard.
I have noted the executors comments about the amount Mr and Mrs O needed to borrow 
and that their reasons for requesting the remainder of the money werent accurate. He 
considers that the adviser should have realised this and, effectively, decided the need wasnt 
there and declined the lending.  However, as I have said above, the adviser is to a large 
degree dependent on what a prospective borrow tells him or her. The vast majority of lifetime 
mortgages are requested to provide funds to clear exiting borrowing, make large purchases 
and to enhance the consumers lifestyle. The purposes for the money put forward by 
Mr and Mrs O fall within those categories and I dont think the adviser would reasonably 
have had good cause to believe he was being lied to or misled by Mr and Mrs O. Indeed, 
these reasons may have been why Mr and Mrs O wanted the money, but the deterioration in 
Mr Os health the executor has mentioned may have meant their plans changed. 
I would also comment that the value of their home was Mr and Mrs Os to dispose of as they 
chose. The fact that they chose not to spend some of the money for the purposes it was 
borrowed doesnt mean that the advice was wrong or unsuitable. Aviva wasnt in a position 
to make Mr and Mrs O do what they said they would with the money; that was again their 
choice.
The documentation shows that Mr and Mrs O asked Aviva for a specific sum of money. This 
was notably less than the maximum that could have been borrowed, which would indicate 
theyd thought about the amount they wanted. They set out what they wanted the money for 
and there is nothing that would have raised concerns at the time. I am satisfied the 
information they were given at the time of the sale made them aware of how the mortgage 
worked and the effect it would have on their estates. I am also satisfied that they were willing 
to have their estates eroded in order to provide for their needs. 
I can understand the executor being unhappy about Mrs Os estate being considerably 
smaller than it would have been, but for the Aviva mortgage. However, I have seen nothing 
that leads me to conclude the mortgage was mis-sold or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs O based 
on their circumstances and needs at the time of the sale.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mrs O to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman