DRN-3554509
The complaint
Mr P complains about a delay in transferring his Individual Savings Account (ISA) from 
Skipton Building Society to another building society.
Mr P has also raised a complaint against the other business. This is considered in a 
separate decision.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr P attempted to transfer an ISA held with Skipton to another building society 
(N). He completed the paperwork, but the transfer didnt go through.
When Mr P contacted Skipton, it told him it hadnt received the transfer request from N. 
However, N told Mr P it had presented the transfer request to Skipton twice, but it had been 
rejected under the reason account not found. 
Mr P complained to both businesses. In its response, Skipton told Mr P that the first 
communication it had received about the matter was in August 2021, when Mr P queried 
why the transfer had not taken place. Skipton said it wasnt able to transfer the funds to N 
until it had received the transfer authority form from them. 
The ISA transfer was successfully completed in October 2021. But Mr P remained unhappy 
and asked our service to investigate his complaints against both businesses.
Our investigator looked into both complaints but wasnt able to establish who was 
responsible for the error. He hadnt seen sufficient evidence to show that Skipton had done 
anything wrong. He also didnt think it was unreasonable for Skipton to have applied a 
penalty of around £21 for the funds being transferred when they were. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint, Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr P would like to understand who is responsible for things going wrong 
with his ISA transfer. The relevant rules say that a cash ISA transfer to a different provider 
shouldnt take longer than 15 working days. And it took around six months for Mr Ps ISA to 
be transferred successfully. So, I can understand his frustration.
Our general approach is that the new provider (in this case N) is usually responsible for 
chasing up payment from the old provider (Skipton) and paying any loss of interest. Im 
aware that N has backdated interest to April 2021.
According to Skiptons records, it didnt receive a transfer request from N until October 2021. 
N has also provided screenshots of its systems. But these arent strong enough evidence for 
me to conclude that Skipton made an error. 
I appreciate my answer isnt what Mr P was hoping for, but I dont require Skipton to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman