DRN-3904467
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to a
bank impersonation scam.
What happened
On 21 March 2022, Mr D received a phone call from someone pretending to be from Monzo.
Hes provided a screenshot showing the call on his phone. It lasted for around three minutes
and came up as no caller ID.
Mr D has explained that a few days before the payment, he received a text message about
getting an online order redelivered. As he was expecting a parcel, he clicked on the link and
explains he entered his bank details thinking he was paying a fee to arrange a redelivery.
Mr D says the caller told him that someone was using his card and that he received an
active card check notification from a restaurant showing an attempted payment of £0.00. He
told Monzo the caller asked him how much money hed got in his bank account and that the
caller said any money that was taken would be refunded. A card payment for £695 was
made from Mr Ds Monzo account to a cryptocurrency exchange. Mr D says he doesnt know 
how the payment happened. He added that as soon as the money was taken, the caller 
hung up on him and thats when he knew it had been a scam.
Mr D contacted Monzo and asked the bank to pay the money back. He explained he didnt
approve anything and that he desperately needed the money to help his family.
Monzo looked into the situation but concluded there was nothing it could do to help. It said
that it couldnt try to get the money back through a chargeback because the disputed
transaction had been approved in Mr Ds mobile banking app. It said Mr D didnt take
reasonable steps to protect his account. Mr D made a complaint. In its final response letter,
Monzo said it had correctly followed its internal procedures in line with its regulatory
obligations.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Initially he told our Investigator that the caller
asked him to approve something in his mobile banking app and that he was told to move his
money to keep it safe. Then Mr D later said that he didnt approve anything in the app and
only saw the active card check notification for the restaurant. Mr D told our Investigator that
he didnt verify the callers identity, but he believed they were from Monzo because of the
active card check notification. He said the caller told him that the money was going to be
refunded back.
Our Investigator spoke to Mr D again. He said he didnt log into his Monzo app at the time
and that the caller didnt ask him to approve any payments. He said he wasnt told that any
money would be leaving his account.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld, but Monzo disagreed. It 
thought Mr D should have questioned why there needed to be a refund as no money had 
been taken and that he should have questioned why a cryptocurrency exchange was 
involved. It pointed out that Mr D had moved £840 from his savings pot to his current
account two minutes before the disputed card payment was made and said there was no
reason why Mr D would need funds in his account to accept a refund. The bank said Mr D
had authorised the payment in his mobile banking app. It was also concerned about the
length of the call, suggesting it was not long enough for trust to be built.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me. I asked Monzo for 
technical evidence about the disputed payment. The bank said there has only ever been one 
device linked to Mr Ds account and it is still registered now. It provided evidence to show the 
disputed payment was approved using an electronic fingerprint recognition feature built into 
the device. 
I asked Mr D why he moved £840 from his savings pot into his current account. I asked him 
what he thought was happening at the time, what he saw displayed on his device and 
whether he asked the caller any questions.
Mr D responded to say that he didnt remember moving £840 out of the savings pot. He said
he believed the caller worked for Monzo because they said they did and because of the
notification hed received saying his card was being used in a restaurant. He said that he
didnt see anything about a cryptocurrency exchange and didnt click on anything. He 
suggested the caller must have had access to his online banking 
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt think Monzo had any 
responsibility for refunding this loss. I explained that Id reached that conclusion having taken 
into account that:
This is a difficult case to consider because what Mr D has said to both Monzo when 
he reported the transaction and to this service when we have investigated often 
contradicts. I also took into consideration how quickly everything happened, and that 
English is not potentially Mr Ds native language. I recognised that I am never going 
to know for sure exactly what the circumstances surrounding the disputed card 
payment really are. Mr D told us as much as he could, but hes said different things
at different times, making it hard for me to place much weight on what he can
remember. I explained that I would make my decision on balance, based on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 explain that a transaction can be regarded 
as being authorised if the payer has given their consent to its execution. Whether a 
payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally 
speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr D made the disputed 
card transaction himself, or agreed that it could be made, the starting point is that it 
would not be fair to ask Monzo to refund it.
The banks technical evidence shows the card payment only went through because it 
was approved in the mobile banking app, which is something only Mr D could have 
done. 
I noted that at the time that the call took place, the balance of Mr Ds account was 
less than £5. It was the transfer of £840 from his savings pot into the current account 
that provided the funds for the disputed card payment. When I asked Mr D about why 
he moved the money from the savings pot, he didnt remember this happening.On balance, I thought the disputed transaction was authenticated using Mr Ds 
payment information and that he consented to the payment being made. 
I thought about whether Monzo ought to have identified that Mr D was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud and intervened before allowing the payment to go through. 
But the payment being made using his card details would have appeared 
unremarkable. So I wasnt persuaded it would be fair to say Monzo should have done 
more to challenge the payment and find out more about it. 
I thought about whether Monzo could ask for the disputed payment to be refunded 
using the chargeback process. But I didnt think Monzo had treated Mr D unfairly by 
not raising a claim. I cant fairly expect Monzo to initiate the process where no 
chargeback right exists as there would not be a realistic chance of it being 
successful.
Monzo accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr D did not 
respond. As the deadline for responses from both parties has now passed, I have reviewed 
the complaint afresh.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision
and summarised above.
I appreciate that Mr D has lost money and this has left him in a very difficult position. But for 
the reasons I have previously explained, in all of the circumstances of this case, I cant fairly 
or reasonably say that Monzo is responsible for refunding the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman