DRN-4112526
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund the money she lost as 
the result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Ms Ts complaint has been brought by a representative, for ease of reading I will refer solely 
to Ms T in this decision.
What happened
All the details are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the investigators 
view of 24 April 2023 - so I wont repeat them in full here. In summary, Ms T paid £162,902 
in a number of faster payments between 4 July 2017 and 27 September 2017 to a mortgage 
adviser that she had used for a previous property purchase without issue.  She believed she 
was purchasing a property that she had viewed in person. Supporting paperwork was sent 
seemingly by the same solicitors involved in her previous legitimate purchase. When Ms T 
did not receive ownership of the property she realised she had been scammed. She 
complained to NatWest in 2022 but it refused to refund the payments saying there was no 
bank error. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ts complaint. As Ms T had legitimately bought property 
through the mortgage adviser before he first explained how he had established this was a 
scam and not a civil dispute. He could see Ms T did not own the plot in question at the Land 
Registry and the solicitors also confirmed they did not handle the conveyancing, as it 
seemed. 
He then explained that whilst he thought the bank ought to have intervened at the time of the 
ninth transaction as it was higher value (£8,000) and out of character, he did not think the 
scam would have been prevented had it done so. 
He said this as he did not feel a proportionate level of questioning would have revealed the 
scam because Ms T had worked with the mortgage adviser before. She also had related 
paperwork, purportedly from the same regulated solicitors used for the previous purchase. 
He concluded that this, combined with the unusual nature of this scam whereby a legitimate 
property adviser over a decade later deployed a criminal scam on a previous client, would 
have reasonably prevented the bank from breaking the spell of the scam. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Ms T asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, she 
said it was most likely a reasonable level of intervention from the bank would have revealed 
the scam. She set out the questions that would likely have been asked and how she would 
have replied. Her key points were that it is not normal for a house purchase to be made in 
multiple payments. So if probed, her reply that this was to prevent the bank blocking them 
would have stopped the scam. Also, had the bank reviewed the paperwork from the solicitor 
it ought to have noticed the payee name was another bank.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of Ms Ts comments and all aspects of the scam carefully, and I mean 
no discourtesy by this, but in line with our role as an informal dispute resolution service - and 
as our rules allow - I will focus here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of her 
complaint.
Theres no dispute that Ms T made and authorised the payments. Ms T knew why she
was making the payments. At the stage she was making these payments, she believed
she was purchasing a property. I dont dispute Ms T wasnt making the payments for the 
reason she thought she was, but I remain satisfied the transaction was authorised under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009 which are the relevant regulations in this case.
Its also accepted that NatWest has an obligation to follow Ms Ts instructions. So in the
first instance Ms T is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be
taken into account as it is also understood that banks such as NatWest have duties to 
protect their customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud as far as reasonably 
possible.
So to reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. To note, as the payments pre-date the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code
its principles do not apply in this case. And as our investigator explained Confirmation of 
Payee had not been introduced as a requirement at the time of these payments either.
In this case I do not think NatWest ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain
why. 
I agree with the finding that the ninth payment was out of character and so ought to have 
triggered further checks, equally I note that given the time since the transactions NatWest 
are unable to confirm if it blocked any of the payments. This is not unreasonable. In such 
circumstances what I need to decide is, on balance, would an intervention from the bank at 
this time have prevented the scam from succeeding.
I think it is more likely Ms T would have answered the questions NatWest ought to have 
asked such that it was satisfied the payment(s) were legitimate. I say this as she had 
documentation from the solicitors and most critically she had used the mortgage advisor 
before to make a legitimate property purchase. In these circumstances I think for the scam to 
be exposed NatWest would need to have scrutinised the context of the payment(s) beyond 
the extent that I see to be proportionate. I know Ms T disagrees and argues that had the 
bank carried out a reasonable intervention the scam would have come to light when she said 
she was paying in small instalments as she was told this would avoid the bank blocking it. 
But it is equally plausible she could have said she was paying that way as she was only 
receiving the funds from her ex-husband that she was using to buy the property in 
instalments over a similar period of time, as this was the case. We cannot know with 
certainty what result the intervention would have yielded, but we are an evidence-based 
service and in this case I find the indisputable facts that Ms T had used the mortgage adviser 
before without issue; she had been shown round the property and wouldve confirmed this; 
and that the scammer had falsified documentation to lead her to believe the same solicitors 
were involved mean I cannot fairly conclude a proportionate intervention from the bank 
would have broken the spell of the scam.
I have then thought about whether NatWest did everything it should to try to recover Ms Ts 
money once she told it she had been scammed. As this was several years later, and I do appreciate Ms T did not realise it was a scam earlier, I dont find there is anything NatWest 
could practicably have done to recover the money by then.  
It follows I am not instructing NatWest to refund any money to Ms T. This is a difficult 
decision to make, Im sorry Ms T lost a considerable amount of money and that this has 
impacted her health. I can understand why she would like to be compensated for her loss. I 
do accept Ms T has fallen victim to a sophisticated and somewhat unusual scam. But I can 
only consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held 
responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find NatWest can be 
held liable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman