DRN-1521360
The complaint
Mr A complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
On 10 July 2019 Mr A acquired a car costing £16,900 funded by a small deposit and a hire 
purchase finance. It was some four years old and had covered some 43,000 miles. A few 
days after collecting the car Mr A encountered a problem with the cars electronic display. He 
called the dealer on 23 July and he says that initially he was told they would look at the car 
on 25th, but later got a text to say it would be 8 August. Mr A was concerned this was the last 
day of the 28-day warranty. 
He was also concerned about the safety of driving the car, but the dealer told him it would be 
ok. He says he spoke to another garage and carried out research on the internet which 
caused him to believe it would be dangerous to carry on driving the car. He says the dealer 
told him to take it to another garage and it would pay. 
On 24th he called Blue to let it know of the issue and explained he wanted to end the 
agreement and he would be taking the car back. On 25th he took the car back to the dealer 
and it was unable to offer a repair that day or provide a courtesy car. Mr A left the car and 
says he told them he didnt want it back. He signed a letter confirming he was leaving the car 
and its keys to which he added his own words to the effect that he unhappy with the service 
he had been given.
On 7 August he received a text to say the car was ready for collection. The dealer has told 
Blue that the car had been taken to a main dealer which had identified it required a software 
reboot and the issue was fixed. Mr A refused to collect the car and complained to Blue. It 
rejected his complaint and said the car was fit for purpose.
He brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said it wasnt uncommon for a used vehicle to have 
faults develop from time to time and it would be unreasonable to expect a vehicle would 
continue to work without any problems for the entirety of its life. The car had been repaired 
by a main dealer and he thought Mr A should collect it. If there were any further faults these 
could then be addressed.
Mr A didnt agree and said he had been told a by a main dealer that the car wasnt safe to 
drive. He didnt believe it was just a software issue. He had rejected the car within 14 days 
and the level of service provided by the dealer and Blue was unacceptable. He also said that 
Blue had added a default to his credit file since he had stopped making payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is not disputed Mr As car had a problem shortly after he had taken delivery of it. Mr A says 
he was told by another garage that it was a serious issue, but he has provided no written 
evidence of that claim. The lack of evidence makes it difficult for me to conclude there was a 
major fault with the car. I can see he was concerned about the car and wanted it repaired 
immediately. The dealer was unable to do this and so he left it with them. 
I fear there may be some confusion about consumer law. Mr A had the right to terminate the 
finance agreement within 14 days. If he had done so it would mean that he would have had 
to repay Blue the money he had in effect borrowed to acquire the car. He would then have 
had to pay the dealer for the car by some other means.
On the separate, but connected issue is the issue of whether the car was fit for purpose. If it 
hadnt been fit for purpose at the point of sale then Mr A would have been entitled to reject 
the car. The electrical issue occurred soon after he acquired the car and it is reasonable to 
conclude it was present at the point of sale. However, the car wasnt new and it is not 
unusual for issues to arise. 
A minor or cosmetic fault does not entitle a consumer to reject goods. In this case the car 
was taken to an independent main dealer which rebooted the software and confirmed the 
fault was repaired. This was paid for by the selling dealer. That would suggest it was minor 
issue and not one that would be deemed to be grounds for rejection. I can see that it passed 
its MOT in February 2020 which supports the view that it was in satisfactory working order.
If Mr A had taken the car back and it had developed a similar problem, or other faults had 
arisen he may have had a case for rejection, but he chose not to do so. In short, all the 
evidence I have seen shows that the car had a minor fault which was repaired without an 
unreasonable delay and I can see no basis for rejection.
I have noted Mr A complains about the level of customer service he received from the dealer 
and Blue. My role only allows me to consider the actions of Blue, not the dealer, and I cannot 
see how its staff failed Mr A. It offered to help but pointed out that he couldnt just reject the 
car because he wanted to. That was reasonable advice, which Mr A didnt accept. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman