DRN-1705245
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy taken out with a mortgage. Ms R says that Santander UK Plc mis-sold the policy. 
What happened
Ms R bought the policy when she took out a mortgage in February 2006. The policy wouldve 
provided her with a benefit in the event she wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy cost £20.12 each month and in the event of a successful claim 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £334 for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should succeed. He said that Santander 
shouldnt have sold the policy to Ms R without highlighting the significant policy exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Santander disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. It says Ms Rs pre-existing 
medical condition is not under contention. But it says the medical evidence provided by 
Ms R does not support the need for it to review its decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Rs complaint.
Ive considered what Ms R and Santander say and Ive decided to uphold this complaint 
because I dont think that Santander met all of Ms Rs information needs  in particular about 
the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. And I think she wouldve decided 
against buying the policy if this had been done.
Ms R had a medical condition culminating in an operation in 1995, the details of which are 
known to all parties. And shes provided medical notes from her doctor that show she was 
still taking medication related to this condition in 2010. Weve also seen confirmation that 
she has scans regularly as a part of her ongoing medical monitoring.
Ive read the relevant section of the policy document very carefully and I dont agree with 
Santander. The section on exclusions says We will not pay claims for an accident or 
sickness resulting from a pre-existing medical condition. This is any medical condition which 
you know about when cover starts or you've seen a doctor about in the 12 months before 
taking out the cover. This exclusion will not apply where you have been symptom free and 
not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the medical condition in the 24 months prior 
to the claim. 
Ms R says that the sale took place in a branch. I dont know what was discussed during this 
meeting, but there isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that this very significant exclusion was highlighted or discussed. Because of this, I dont think it wouldve been clear 
to her that she wouldve been affected by specific policy exclusions regarding her pre-
existing medical condition. And the policy booklet only makes reference to the exclusions 
half-way through the brochure in relatively small print. There is no evidence to suggest this 
was highlighted in any way for Ms R or drawn to her attention when she decided to take the 
policy out.
Ive considered that it was Ms Rs responsibility to consider suitability; however, it was still 
Santanders responsibility to ensure that the information was sufficiently clear and that any 
limitations or exclusions that might be significant to Ms R were pointed out so that she could 
make an informed choice. I dont think this information was sufficiently drawn to Ms Rs 
attention and if it had been, she would, more likely than not, have refused the policy.
Santander doesnt dispute Ms Rs medical records, but it says because it hasnt seen 
medical notes from 2006, the time of the sale, it doesnt think Ms R wouldve been affected 
by exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
But I dont agree. Ms Rs testimony is consistent and plausible so, on the basis that she was 
still taking medication in 2010 in connection with an operation some 15 years earlier, Im 
satisfied that Ms Rs condition wouldnt have been covered under the terms of Santanders 
policy. And as a condition requiring ongoing treatment and medication, I think Ms R wouldve 
felt this to be the most likely cause of her having time off work at that time and yet the policy 
would not have covered her for this. I believe this wouldve mattered to her and that if better 
information had been provided, she wouldnt have thought the policy was good value as the 
benefits would have been severely limited for her.
In summary, I dont think that Ms R wouldve purchased the MPPI policy, if she had been 
given sufficiently clear and fair information about its exclusions. Ive noted all of Santanders 
submissions but these do not alter my conclusions. It follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Ms R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander UK 
Plc should:
         Pay Ms R the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
         Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
         If Ms R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Santander UK Plc must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Ms R. I require 
Santander UK Plc to pay Ms R fair compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress I have set out above. I make no further award against Santander UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman