DRN-3328879
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss K acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was registered in March 2014, which means it was about six and a half 
years old and had travelled around 89,000 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of 
the car was £5,149. Miss K part exchanged a vehicle to the value of £400 which meant that 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £4,749 payable over 48 monthly 
repayments of £140.08.
In a letter dated 20 September 2021 Miss K explained that after acquiring her car she 
experienced various issues with it, including a window that wasnt working which she said 
took the dealer six months to be repaired, and the electrics which had failed twice. Miss K 
says she was given an extended warranty in April 2021 as compensation for the 
inconvenience. However, Miss K explained that knocking and banging coming from the car 
became an issue, as well as the car pulling to the left when she was driving it. Miss K said 
she brought it to a local garage and was told the car had 4 different sized tyres which she 
paid to have replaced. 
Miss K said shes brought the car in to the dealer for repairs on more than one occasion, but 
on each occasion has been returned to her with the same issues. 
Miss K said shes experienced anxiety and stress as a result of the situation and would like 
to reject the car and receive a refund.
In August 2021 Miss K complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo said that based on the history of 
the faults reported, theyd arrange for an independent engineer to inspect the faults with the 
car to determine whether the issues reported were present or developing at the point of sale. 
The inspection was carried out on 28 September 2021 and concluded that the car displayed 
knocking and banging that was consistent with gearbox differential bearing wear. The report 
also advised the car shouldnt be driven in its condition. However, it didnt consider the 
damage would have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss K also arranged for another inspection to be completed which contradicted the 
conclusions of the first report. 
The second inspection carried out on 9 October 2021 concluded that no knocking had been 
detected during a road test but identified the steering as being in a dangerous condition. The 
report advised the car shouldnt be driven, and all steering and front suspension angles 
should be checked and reset. The report also concluded that as Miss K had driven it 2,185 
miles since supply it was the opinion of the engineer that the situation was present at the 
point of supply.
In October 2021 MotoNovo provided their final response to Miss Ks complaint. They didnt 
uphold the complaint as they believed the issues were not present or developing at the point 
of supply. 
Unhappy with their decision Miss K brought her complaint to this service for investigation. 
Our investigator gave their view that MotoNovo hadnt acted fairly in the circumstances. 
They recommended MotoNovo allow Miss K to reject the car and refund the monthly 
payments from when the car wasnt being used. Our investigator was persuaded that due to 
the problems with the car soon after supply, it wasnt of satisfactory quality. They also 
recommended that MotoNovo pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Unhappy with our investigators view, MotoNovo challenged that the issues were present at 
the point of supply. However, as our investigators view remained unchanged MotoNovo 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In January 2022 Miss K told our investigator that the dealer had accepted liability to fix her 
car and had provided her with a courtesy car. However, she also confirmed that she still 
wished to reject the car. In February 2022 Miss K confirmed that the car was returned to her 
but that she still felt unsafe and shes not received any confirmation of what had been fixed 
or repaired. She also advised that the electrics had failed again.
Following my review of all the information provided, I shared my initial thoughts with both 
parties because my outcome differed in part from our investigators outcome. I invited each 
party to share any further comments or evidence they may want me to be aware of. 
MotoNovo didnt provide a response. However, Miss K responded to say that she accepted 
my initial thoughts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. My starting point is that MotoNovo supplied Miss K with a used car that was around six and 
a half years old and had travelled 89,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car 
with lower mileage; and that there may be visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided Im satisfied that there was a fault with the cars gearbox and 
steering. This is apparent from the two inspection reports provided which both concluded 
that the car shouldnt be driven due to its faults, and that further investigation was required. 
Having considered the car was faulty, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply. 
In an email to our investigator in November 2021, Miss K said the issues started within three 
weeks of her being supplied the car. In their final response, when recounting a conversation 
with Miss K, MotoNovo advised that they were told the intermittent banging noises presented 
itself within weeks of supply. However, I acknowledge they also said the faults presented 
themselves in May 2021 as that was the first time theyd seen a mechanical report on them.
Although the first mechanical report from the dealer is dated in May 2021, I dont think that 
its necessarily indicative that the faults started at that point. I think its likely the focus of 
repair was on the issue with the electrics, which resulted in the extended warranty being 
given to Miss K. Ive also considered that the knocking was intermittent so was unlikely to 
have a constant presence. 
Miss K told our investigator the issues started around three weeks after supply, which is 
consistent with what she told MotoNovo as detailed in their final response. When Miss K said 
in her complaint letter that as far back as May she advised the car wasnt safe to drive, I 
think its likely the knocking became more noticeable as some of the other issues had been 
fixed at that point. So, from the information provided Im persuaded that the knocking had 
started within a month after supply, along with the other issues that Miss K had reported.
The first inspection arranged by MotoNovo, and carried out 12 months after supply, 
concluded there were knocking and banging noises that were consistent with gearbox 
differential. It also noted the vehicle appeared to be pushing when the steering lock was 
applied.
The second inspection arranged by Miss K and carried out 13 months after supply, advised 
of no knocking noises during a road test, but advised the steering was in a dangerous 
condition. 
The first report says the issues were likely caused due to general in-service wear and 
deterioration. I dont doubt this conclusion, however, considering Miss K only drove the car 
2,815miles by that point, persuades me that the issues with the gearbox differential was 
present and developing at the point of supply, albeit intermittently. 
Miss K advised the knocking was intermittent and presented itself with other electrical issues 
which it appears took priority. So, I think its reasonable that the knocking noises werent 
looked into until the other issues were fixed. I also think the intermittent nature of the 
knocking and banging is the likely explanation of why the second inspection engineer hadnt 
detected it during their road test.
Putting things right
As Ive found that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K, I 
think its fair that MotoNovo put things right for her. Miss K says she wants to reject the car, 
and considering Miss K brought her car to the dealer to fix the problem on more than one occasion, for example in May and August 2021 as confirmed by the invoices, under the CRA 
Miss H has a right to reject the car. So, Ill be instructing MotoNovo to collect the vehicle 
from Miss K, and refund Miss Ks deposit of £400 as the value of her part exchange.
However, Ill also be instructing MotoNovo to refund to Miss K, half of her monthly 
repayments from September 2020 to September 2021, as this was when it was confirmed 
via the first inspection report, that the car wasnt safe to drive. 
The agreement shows Miss K had an expected annual mileage of 10,000, however the 
inspection report shows that the car only travelled 2,815 miles up to October 2021, which is 
considerably less than the expected distance shown on the agreement. Im persuaded the 
lower mileage was likely as a result of the ongoing issues Miss K experienced with the car. I 
recognise theres no perfect science to calculating what a fair refund would be, but all things 
considered I think 50% is fair considering the problems Miss K experienced, along with the 
low mileage on the car.
Miss K said she stopped driving the car from August 2021, however a recent screenshot of 
the mileage, provided by Miss K shows the mileage has increased by 1,300 over about eight 
months. This is an average of less than 40miles per week, and still significantly lower than 
the10,000 miles that Miss K had intended, as per the agreement. 
In consideration of all the evidence provided and the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
weighed up that Miss K has only driven the car 1,300miles over the past eight months with 
the most likely reason being its not safe to drive, so I think its fair to say that shed more or 
less stopped driving the car. And as the car was deemed unsafe to drive from that point, Ill 
also be instructing MotoNovo to refund all monthly repayments made by Miss K from 
October 2021.
Miss K also described the impact the whole situation has had on her, she said shed been 
affected with anxiety, sleepless nights and has had time away from work. So, I think 
MotoNovo should pay her some compensation. Im in agreement with our investigator that 
£300 is fair in the circumstances and fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
collect the car at no additional cost to Miss K 
end the hire purchase agreement and remove it from Miss Ks credit file
refund the deposit paid by Miss K 
refund to Miss K half of all repayments shes made towards the agreement from 
inception of the agreement to September 2021
refund to Miss K all monthly payments shes made on the agreement from October 
2021
pay 8% yearly simple interest on the above refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
pay Miss K £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
If MotoNovo Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss K how much its taken off. It should also give Miss K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman