DRN-2724928
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about a mortgage they held with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy that, because Santander wouldnt give them a mortgage on their new home, they 
had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they moved. In addition, they have said 
when they took the interest rate product, they assumed the ERC linked to it reduced 
incrementally throughout its term and they dont think it not reducing can be justified.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander. An interest rate product was 
attached to the mortgage, which ended in May 2020. The mortgage offer detailed that there 
was an ERC linked to the interest rate product and Mr and Mrs C would have to pay an ERC 
of 5% if they repaid the borrowing during the product term. Examples of how much the ERC 
could be at various points were given. The advice to take out the mortgage and interest rate 
product was given by an independent mortgage broker.
Two years later Mr and Mrs C moved home and took a new mortgage with Santander. This 
time they received advice from Santander. The existing interest rate product was transferred 
to the new mortgage and the expiry date remained the same. The mortgage offer again 
detailed that there was an ERC associated with the interest rate product; 5% of the amount 
repaid. Again, examples of how much the ERC could be at different dates were given.
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs C wanted to move again and applied for a new, larger mortgage 
with Santander. Unfortunately, Santander was not persuaded the mortgage applied for was 
affordable. It discussed this with Mr and Mrs C and let them know how much it was able to 
lend them. It asked them to provide further information if they wanted to move forward with a 
mortgage for the lower amount. Mr and Mrs C have told us they were unable to increase the 
deposit to enable them to buy the property with the amount of mortgage Santander was 
willing to offer. In light of this they arranged a mortgage with another lender that would lend 
them the amount they needed to buy the property and consolidate some debts. 
Mr and Mrs C complained. Santander considered Mr and Mrs Cs concerns, but it didnt 
uphold the complaint. It highlighted the mortgage offer they accepted detailed that an ERC 
was payable until May 2020 and they had been reminded in their annual statements. It also 
said the mortgage application hadnt been declined; rather Santander had asked for some 
more information to allow it to consider the application further and this information was still 
outstanding. It said as Mr and Mrs C had chosen to sell the property within the term of the 
product and seek borrowing elsewhere, the ERC was rightly payable.
Mr and Mrs C moved shortly after Santander responded to their complaint and around seven 
weeks before the end of the product term, so they were charged an ERC. They were 
unhappy with this and the response theyd received, so they referred the complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. While they accepted that 
different lenders have different ways of assessing lending criteria and so a decision from one 
cannot evidence that another should have lent, they believe Santander was unfair in not 
granting the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C also disputed whether the way Santander calculated the ERC was 
reasonable. They questioned how the costs incurred could be the same on the first day as it 
was on the final day of a five-year period, unless it is averaged over the term  they disagree 
that averaging the costs over the term is fair and the ERC should have been on a sliding 
scale. Mr and Mrs C also speculated that if the ERC is an average over the whole term, it 
must have taken account of the maximum they could have paid, including the 10% 
overpayment allowance. As such, they consider the ERC should have been based on the 
minimum possible outstanding balance at the point of repayment; so the overpayment 
allowances should have been deducted from the mortgage balance for the purposes of 
calculating the ERC. 
Mr C said that he would like to see the breakdown of the ERC and that he and his solicitor 
would be willing to sign a non-disclosure agreement to access that information. 
Mr and Mrs C asked that we inform Santander that if the matter wasnt resolved to their 
satisfaction, they would move their banking arrangements elsewhere.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs further comments, but they didnt change her 
mind. She confirmed that in certain circumstances we accepted information confidentially 
and that was the case here in relation to how the ERC was calculated. She also said she 
would forward Mr and Mrs Cs comments about a non-disclosure agreement to Santander 
for comment. However, as they didnt agree with her findings, in order to move the complaint 
forward, it would need to be considered by an ombudsman. 
Santander didnt consent to the ERC information being released to Mr and Mrs C. As 
agreement on the merits of the complaint couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender will decide what types and amount of risk it is willing to take when it lends money. 
This will range from things like the types of property it will accept as security to affordability 
assessments. The lender is entitled to set lending criteria that suits its appetite for risk and, 
as long at the criteria was fairly applied across its customer base, it is not something this 
service would normally look to interfere with. 
When Mr and Mrs C applied for a new mortgage the amount they wanted to borrow fell 
outside Santanders lending criteria. It appears that it did what it could to lend as much as it 
could, but the amount it could offer was less than Mr and Mrs C needed to buy the house 
they wanted. I know they consider Santander acted unfairly when it decided it couldnt lend 
them all the money they wanted, but I havent seen any evidence that was the case. It is 
simply a case of Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow more than Santanders lending criteria 
would allow them to borrow from it. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that only borrowing the amount Santander was willing to offer was 
not possible because they didnt have an alternative way of funding the difference. As such, 
they had the choice of not purchasing the property theyd selected or finding borrowing 
elsewhere and incurring the ERC. They chose the latter option.I note Mr and Mrs C have said they assumed the ERC decreased throughout the term of the 
product. If the details of the ERC were not clear to them at the time the product was 
originally recommended, that would be a matter for the broker that recommended it. 
However, the ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offers produced by Santander in 
both 2015 and 2017 as being a fixed percentage of the amount repaid. Mr and Mrs C 
accepted those offers and the ERC that was associated with the product, even if they 
thought, at the time, they were unlikely to incur it. So when they repaid the mortgage, it was 
not unreasonable for Santander to charge the ERC.
As for Mr and Mrs Cs concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment, an assessment of future conditions 
and the costs associated with it borrowing the money. The regulations allow a lender to 
calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders requirement that a consumer is told in 
advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be and is given an example of it in 
monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs C have suggested that in order for the ERC to remain a constant throughout the 
term of the mortgage, Santander must have averaged the costs across the period. As I have 
explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is 
calculated. Whilst some factors a lender takes into account may vary over the term of the 
product the ERC is linked to, other significant ones dont. Under the rules, provided the 
charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid 
early, it can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, though they cant 
be made publicly available as theyre commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied 
the amount charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the 
charge should be refunded.
As for Mr and Mrs Cs thought that the overpayment allowance should have been taken into 
account when the ERC was calculated, I cant agree. The mortgage conditions allow for 
overpayments to be made without an ERC being paid. However, Mr and Mrs C didnt make 
overpayments and werent asking to do so. So I dont think Santander should have taken the 
overpayment allowance into account when calculating the ERC when the mortgage was 
completely repaid. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 May 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman