DRN-3811306
The complaint
Miss G complained about the way her former motor insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral), dealt with a claim she made on her policy.
Miss Gs complaint was brought to us by her mother, Mrs G, but for ease I will refer to 
Mrs Gs comments as Miss Gs.
What happened
In April 2019 Miss Gs car was stolen so she made a claim on her motor policy. Admiral paid 
her £17,772.70 for the total loss value of the car. 
In March 2022, Miss G found out that her car had been recovered and that Admiral had sold 
it for £12,977.80. She said she found this out by chance, and that Admiral had never written 
to her to let her know. She said in the intervening years whenever she was taking out a new 
policy she would always declare the claim value as £17,772.70. She said if shed known that 
Admiral had made a recovery, she would have only declared the reduced claim amount of 
£4,791.90. She believes that declaring the higher amount meant that she paid higher 
premiums than what she should have paid over those three years. 
Miss G brought her complaint to Admiral. Admiral didnt uphold it. It said that the information 
it had recorded on its system and on external databases in relation to the claim value was 
correct. 
Miss G didnt agree and complained to us. She said she wanted Admiral to pay 
compensation for not advising her of the recovery and therefore the correct claim figure. She 
also told us that she received a letter from Admiral after it had made the recovery which still 
showed the cost of the claim as being £17,772.70.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the information 
Admiral had recorded was correct and that the cost of the claim was £17,772.70 regardless 
of the recovery amount. She added that the letter Miss G was sent after the recovery of her 
car was correct and that it would be for her new insurers to check external databases for 
more information- and to thereafter decide on how to evaluate risk. 
Miss G didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said none of her new 
insurers ever mentioned that she had overstated the cost of her claim. She insisted that she 
should have been informed about the recovery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Miss G but, on this occasion, I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I explain why below.
 
Admiral recorded the claim on The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which is a 
database of motor, home, personal injury and other incidents and whose purpose is to 
identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. The majority of insurers are signed up to this 
database. Insurers have to record what they pay out on CUE. This means the overall 
amount recorded for the claim must reflect what the insurer paid out overall on the claim. 
I have seen the relevant CUE record. In this case Admiral paid £17,772.70 and this is what it 
recorded on CUE. I think this is correct.
 
Admiral later made a recovery. This is also recorded on CUE along with the recovery 
amount of £12,977.80. The claim is marked as closed settled, vehicle stolen unrecovered 
(recovered after settlement) and the date it was closed was July 2019. From what I have 
seen, I dont think any of this information is incorrect, so I dont think Admiral needs to 
change anything in this regard. 
Miss G says she should have been informed when the recovery was made. I see her point 
but as far as Admiral was concerned Miss G had received her settlement and her claim was 
closed. And under the terms of the policy, after the total loss was paid the car became the 
property of Admiral. And as Admiral didnt recover the car until later, at the point of recovery 
it belonged to it. So, on balance, I dont think Admiral needs to compensate Miss G for this 
either. 
Miss G has said that the higher claim amount may have affected the premiums she paid for 
2020-2022. I think this is something she can ask her new insurers about. But as our 
Investigator said her insurers are likely to have had access to CUE (which I note Admiral 
updated without delay) in any event, and in my experience, this is something they would 
have checked whenever a new policy was taken out.
 
Miss G believes that the correct claim amount is the difference between £17,772,70 and 
£12,977.80. This will depend on the information she was asked when she took her other 
policies out. But I note that the information on CUE shows that there was a payment for 
£17,772.70 and also a £12,977.80 recovery, not that the claim was for £4,791.90. But as 
I said this something she can ask her other insurers about. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman