DRN-3648182
The complaint
Mr L complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) failed to credit his account with three merchant 
refunds. He believes the missing transactions was due to fraudulent activity.
What happened
Mr L received a statement from Revolut. Mr L noticed three refunds (£9.90, £41.48 and 
£89.99) werent showing on the statement as being refunded and contacted Revolut about 
this. Revolut confirmed the amounts in question had been received and credited to his 
account.
Revolut accepted the transactions in question werent showing on the statement Mr L had 
requested due to a technical error that has now been resolved. To resolve Mr Ls complaint 
Revolut provided Mr L with an account statement showing the refunds credited and 
compensated him with a free Metal subscription for three months.
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and reached the conclusion that the way Revolut 
had put things right was fair way to settle the complaint and didnt think it needed to do 
anything more. 
Mr L disagreed, he says the compensation offered to him is of no value and wants Revolut to 
check the scale of the computer glitch and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither Revolut or Mr L have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr L has experienced and see if Revolut has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr L back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Revolut has already recognised it had a technical error and has corrected this and awarded 
Mr L a three month subscription to compensate him in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused. But as Mr L has pointed out this is of no value to him. I can see that the subscription 
comes with a number of benefits but most of them would only be of benefit if you were to 
travel abroad. 
So this being the case I dont think Mr L has been fairly compensated for the inconvenience 
of having to query the missing transactions on his statements. So to compensate Mr L for 
the technical error and inconvenience Im currently minded to direct Revolut to pay Mr L £50.
I understand Mr L would like us to direct Revolut check the scale of the technical glitch  but 
it is not for me to tell it how to run its business. And from what Ive seen Im satisfied Mr Ls 
statements and transaction history are now correctly showing the refunds credited to his 
account and he has been put back in the position he wouldve been in if the technical error 
or glitch hadnt happened. So on this complaint point I dont think Revolut needs to do 
anything more. 
So overall and having considered everything although I dont think a three month 
subscription is enough to compensate Mr L and I am currently minded to direct Revolut to 
pay £50 to Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused by three refunds not being 
reflected on his account statements
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Revolut Ltd and I direct it to 
pay the fair compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman