DRN-4196978
The complaint
Mr S has complained about alleged damage caused by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) following work it carried out under Mr Ss home care policy.
What happened
British Gas attended Mr Ss home in 2022 to carry out certain repairs to the boiler. Mr S
complained that when the engineer had left, tiles beneath the boiler had fallen onto the work
surface. Mr S wanted British Gas to apologised for the damage and pay compensation for
the necessary repairs and for his time in having to deal with the issue. British Gas didnt
consider that compensation was warranted.
Following Mr Ss complaint to British Gas, it maintained its position and didnt agree that its
engineer had caused the claimed damage. Mr S then complained to this service. However,
the relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She thought that it would have
required force for the engineer to dislodge tiles. She noted that the work being carried out by
the engineer wouldnt have required any force. She was of the view that if the tiles had been
secure and in good condition and not suffering from general wear and tear, they wouldnt
have fallen off, even if the engineer had applied pressure to them.
Mr S remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter was therefore 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In May 2023, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint as follows: -  The key issue for me to consider is whether British Gas acted fairly 
and reasonably in refusing to offer compensation for what happened. I consider on a 
provisional basis that it hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in all respects. In reaching this 
conclusion, Ive also considered the parties submissions as follows.
Mr S said that whilst the engineer was at his property, he noticed that the engineer was
standing on top of the kitchen worktop and moving around to make the repairs. After the
engineer left, he said that he heard a crash and the tiles directly beneath the boiler had fallen
onto the work surface. He considered that the damage occurred after the engineer caused
the worktop to flex; thus putting strain on the join with the tiling, which in turn has resulted in
all the previously solid tiles to come away from the wall.
Mr S thought that regardless of whether the force required for the repair work was sufficient,
the engineers weight was sufficient to affect the surrounding area, as the engineer was at
least 6 foot tall. Mr S didnt agree that some underlying problem had caused the tiles to
come away from the wall. He said that theyd been in place for many years, and he
considered that it was too much of a coincidence that the tiles fell off on the specific day
when the British Gas engineer attended.
Turning to what British Gas has said about the matter, its claim notes recorded that it was
two or three tiles that fell off a few hours after the engineer left and that they were then all
removed. It didnt consider that there was anything the engineer could have done to make
these fall off. It considered that; maybe they were slightly loose and the movement of the
engineer and working on the boiler may have made them become even more loose before
falling off a few hours later, so that would be general wear and tear. It added that the
repair was a straightforward job that wouldnt have caused tiles to just fall off a wall. It
thought that the tiles must have been very loose already due to wear and tear, or due to the
way theyd been secured to the wall. It didnt consider it was accountable in either case.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence, its necessary for me to determine
what was more than likely to have occurred in this case. On a provisional basis, Im satisfied
that, following the work carried out by the British Gas engineer at Mr Ss home, Mr S heard a
crash and that some tiles had fallen off the wall. On the balance of probabilities, having
looked at the photographic evidence, I consider it likely that further loose tiles had been
taken off the wall.
Im also satisfied on a provisional basis that its likely that some tiles had already been
slightly loose and that the movements of the engineer standing on the work surface and
working on the boiler made them even more loose, before falling off some time later. From
the photographic evidence Ive seen, the tiles and adhesive which remain on an adjacent
wall seem to be reasonably old, but secure and in a fair condition. Nevertheless, on the
balance of probabilities, I consider that wear and tear and weakening of the tile adhesive
was the predominant cause of the tiles falling off, and that this was simply highlighted when
the British Gas engineer carried out his repairs.
I also consider that, on the balance of probabilities, the engineer had indeed stood on the
kitchen work surface to carry out the repairs. British Gas has checked with its engineer who
denied that this happened, however on balance, I consider that Mr S is more likely to
recollect details of a specific visit than an engineer who will conduct numerous, similar visits
on a daily basis. Im also satisfied on a provisional basis that standing on a work surface and
flexing it, would explain old tiles falling off the wall quicker than would otherwise have been
the case. I conclude that the work hadnt been carried out in an entirely fair and reasonable
manner. I accept Mr Ss evidence that the engineer stood on the work-top, rather than using
a step ladder which would have been the expected and reasonable approach.
In all the circumstances, whilst Ive concluded that the predominant and underlying cause of
damage here was wear and tear and that the tile adhesive was likely to be reaching the end
of its useful life in any event, I consider that British Gas didnt act fairly and reasonably in all
respects in the provision of its service to Mr S.
In the circumstances, and on a provisional basis, I consider it appropriate for British Gas to
pay modest compensation to acknowledge that it didnt provide a service to the customer in
a fair and reasonable manner in all respects. Im therefore minded to require British Gas to
pay Mr S £100 as an apology and acknowledgement of the inconvenience caused to him.
In my provisional decision, I asked both British Gas and Mr S if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S didnt provide any further comments or evidence in response to the provisional 
decision. British Gas representative said that he was: shocked and extremely disappointed 
with the proposed outcome. He said that the relevant engineer clearly recalled the visit from 
the pictures. The representative said that in addition to this, the engineer would carry steps 
on his van as standard and would not stand/lean or rest on a customers worktop. In this 
instance, he said that steps were not required, as the engineer could reach the boiler to complete the repair. He asked that even if the engineer had stood on the worktop was [Mr 
S] watching and standing over him the whole time, if so, why did he not ask the engineer not 
to stand on it? The British Gas representative thought that the provisional decision had 
concluded that there was no evidence either way. As such he felt that a judgment call 
shouldnt be made, with a remedy of an arbitrary compensation amount, this is not what this 
process is supposed to be for.
In the circumstances Ive further considered the provisional decision in the light of the further 
submissions of the British Gas representative. Whilst I note his shock and disappointment, 
Ombudsmen must decide what they consider is the most likely explanation for events based 
on all the available evidence. In this case, I found Mr Ls evidence to be the more persuasive 
evidence. This is further supported as the British Gas representative has now confirmed that 
the engineer did not use steps to reach the boiler to complete the repair. Mr L had made it 
clear that, due to the height of the boiler above the surface, the engineer could only have 
repaired the boiler by standing on something regardless of how tall he was. In any event, he 
was also willing to testify in court that hed witnessed the engineer using the kitchen surface 
for this purpose.
I conclude that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
matter. Im also satisfied that the modest compensation figure to reflect the inconvenience 
caused to Mr L has been set at the correct level
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £100 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman