DRN-2957799
The complaint
Mr N complains that MPA Financial Management Limited (MPA) unfairly received trail 
commission from his Pension Plan (PP) held with another provider between 2012 and 2020. 
He says that MPA hadnt provided him with any service for the commission they received. 
And would like a full refund, including interest, of the fees paid.
What happened
Mr N took financial advice from his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). He held a PP with 
another provider which I understood his IFA had recommended to him whilst he was working 
for a different business. 
In July 2012, the IFA joined MPA. He sent Mr N a letter dated July 2012 to let him know that 
he was moving to MPA. He also included some letters of authority for Mr N to sign and 
return to MPA. Mr N said he overlooked the letter and had only just rediscovered it. He said 
he never signed the letters of authority and hadnt returned them. 
The servicing rights relating to Mr Ns PP were transferred to MPA, with the IFA remaining 
Mr Ns adviser. The trail commission that had been set up at the start of the PP was now 
paid to MPA. This was 0.5% of the pension value each year. Mr N said he wasnt informed 
that this would be the case. 
MPA have confirmed to this service that they only received trail commission in respect of Mr 
N, and that no fees, or payments for services were ever received. They also confirmed that 
the trail commission was received between 13 July 2012 and 13 February 2020. And that the 
total trail commission paid to them had been £3,596.25.
In March 2013 the IFA stopped working with MPA. Mr N said he heard nothing further from 
his IFA or MPA and assumed his pension was still being managed. When the IFA left MPA 
he didnt transfer the commission to his new business, so it continued to be paid to MPA.
MPA said they wrote to all the IFAs clients when he left. They shared the letter they sent 
and evidenced that it had been sent to Mr Ns correct address. The letter stated that if Mr N 
didnt want to transfer, he could remain with MPA and should contact them if he needed 
advice. They said they had no contact from Mr N until he made his complaint.
Recently, Mr N spoke to a different financial adviser. They told him that his PP wasnt being 
managed and he was still paying a fee to MPA. So Mr N complained to MPA. He said hed 
had no contact from his IFA since he moved to MPA. And questioned why MPA hadnt 
contacted him since his IFA had left them. He asked them to refund the trail commission that 
had been paid from his PP.
MPA issued their final response to the complaint on 30 October 2020. They didnt uphold it. 
They said that the servicing rights of Mr Ns PP had been transferred from his IFAs previous 
business to MPA in July 2012. They said that the trail commission that had been paid since 
the policy was set up was attached to these servicing rights. And that this was typical of 
policies set up at that time. They said that although trail commission had ended for new 
investment products taken on after the end of December 2012, it remained on older plans 
like the PP Mr N held. So they felt theyd legitimately received the trail commission on this 
policy. 
MPA said that when Mr Ns IFA had left them they had a written agreement in place that they 
wouldnt contact his clients, as he was to take them with him. They expressed surprise that 
Mr N hadnt contacted them earlier to have the investments in his PP reviewed. They said 
they wouldve happily discussed this with him and moved him onto their ongoing service 
proposition. But they repeated their point that they were unable to contact him due to the 
agreement theyd had with his former IFA. 
Mr N was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he would like the trail commission, plus interest, to be refunded. He felt MPA had acted 
negligently by not informing him of his advisers departure. He said hed been totally 
unaware that his funds weren't being managed. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
MPA hadnt contacted Mr N about his PP after the IFA moved on. But he felt that the trail 
commission had been legitimately transferred to MPA. And he was satisfied that MPA hadnt 
been required to provide Mr N with an ongoing advice service in return for the trail 
commission. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that MPA were 
entitled to receive the trail commission despite not providing Mr N with any financial services. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Ns position is that since MPA provided him with no services or financial advice, they 
shouldnt have received the trail commission from his PP provider. 
MPAs position is that when Mr N moved with his IFA to them in July 2012, they became the 
servicing agent on his PP. They said his IFA had written to him at this time, and had included 
some letters of authority for Mr N to sign and return to MPA. But they said that Mr N had 
confirmed that hed never returned the forms. They said that theyd therefore never received 
a signed service agreement from Mr N. They also said they had a signed consultancy 
agreement with Mr Ns IFA which meant that they couldnt contact the clients hed introduced 
to them when he left the business. 
As Mr N overlooked the July 2012 letter, no ongoing service agreement with MPA was put in 
place to service his PP. If a service agreement had been set up, it wouldve defined what 
was expected from both parties, such as annual reviews and ad-hoc advice and 
administration. The trail commission was set up when the PP was set up. I dont have any 
information from that time, so I cant know with any certainty exactly what was agreed. But I 
can consider this commission generally. As the PP was set up before the end of December 
2012, it was set up before the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). So Ive considered pre-RDR 
trail commission.
Pre-RDR commissionTrail commission was normal with investments in the UK up to 2012. But the rules have 
changed since then. From 31 December 2012, the regulator stopped trail commission on all 
new investment products. But continued to allow it to be paid on investment products 
purchased before 31 December 2012. And even though Mr N complained considerably after 
2012, his complaint relates to the PP he took out before then. So the pre-2012 position is 
relevant in this case. I should also note here that MPA wrote to Mr N in August 2012 to let 
him know about the changes proposed after 2012.
Broadly speaking, a consumer enters into a relationship with an investment adviser. The 
adviser agrees to give advice. And the consumer enters into a separate contract with the 
investment product provider. In the agreement with the adviser the consumer would agree 
that the adviser would be paid via commission paid by the product provider. And in the 
agreement with the product provider the consumer would agree to pay the charges for the 
investment. 
Usually the adviser would agree they would give further advice if asked. But they werent 
obliged to do so. Often the adviser would stay in touch and offer to review matters from time 
to time. I dont know if this was the case before Mr Ns IFA moved to MPA. But it doesnt 
appear to have been the case after he moved to MPA.
The agreement as regards the payment of the commission involved an agreement between 
the adviser and the product provider. The product provider was paying the adviser for 
introducing the consumers business to it. The consumer wasnt party to that agreement. The 
terms on which the product provider paid the adviser, how much, when paid, any terms 
relating to repayment and so on were matters between the product provider and the adviser. 
The product provider might pay the commission in one lump sum. Or more normally it would 
pay part as a lump sum and the rest by instalments for as long as the investment continued 
to exist. The payment of the commission in instalments in that way is often called trail 
commission. And despite the fact that payment was paid over a long period, the payment 
was still for the introduction of the business to the product provider. 
Its true that the product provider was able to pay the commission to the adviser as result of 
the charges it made to the consumer for the investment. But the consumer didnt directly pay 
the commission, the product provider did. 
Whether or not there was any obligation on the adviser to give any kind of ongoing service 
was a matter between the consumer and the adviser depending on what theyd agreed 
between them. It wasnt determined by whether or not the product provider agreed to pay 
trail commission. The product provider paid the adviser for the service the adviser provided 
to it, not for the service provided to the consumer. 
In this case Mr Ns IFA had an arrangement with the investment provider and trail 
commission was paid. When the IFA moved to MPA he brought the right to receive that trail 
commission to MPA. 
Ive not been provided with any information relating to the original advice to set up the PP. 
Therefore, I havent seen evidence of how Mr N had chosen to pay for the advice. But we 
now know that at least part of the advice fee was taken through an ongoing 0.5% annual 
fund-based trail commission. 
As I dont have any of the original documentation relating to the original advice to set up the 
PP, I cant say for certain whether or not the fee basis was explained to Mr N at the time of 
the original advice. But I acknowledge that Mr N said he wasnt informed that this would be 
the case. However, I consider that MPA were entitled to rely on the trail commission having been clearly set out at the time of the initial advice. Therefore, I consider it was reasonable 
for MPA to receive the trail commission when Mr Ns IFA started to work with them.
I next considered whether ongoing services were specifically agreed through the trail 
commission.
Were ongoing services specifically agreed through the trail commission?
Sometimes, it was specifically agreed that trail commission would entitle a consumer to 
further services, including regular reviews and other types of policy management. But as Ive 
seen no documentation from the original advice, I cant say whether or not that was the case 
here. However, theres also no evidence that MPA took on any obligations in respect of Mr N 
when his IFA brought him to their business. And there was no service agreement between 
MPA and Mr N. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence. I acknowledge that Mr N feels that MPA acted 
unethically. But MPA werent obliged to tell Mr N about the trail commission they were 
receiving on his account  they were entitled to rely on the trail commission having been 
clearly set out at the time of the initial advice. So Ive no evidence that MPA did anything 
wrong when they received the trail commission, despite providing no further advice. 
I next considered if MPA continued to be entitled to receive the trail commission after Mr Ns 
IFA left their business. 
What was the intention when the IFA left MPA?
The letter MPA sent to Mr Ns IFAs clients after hed left the business explained what would 
happen next. It explained that they expected the IFA to become authorised through a 
different regulated firm, and then to contact his clients after that. They said that in the 
meantime, he couldnt advise them. So they said they would in the short term continue to 
look after the IFAs clients investments. But that they had agreed that they would transfer 
the clients back to the IFAs new business once it had been properly established. They told 
clients that if they didnt want to transfer with their IFA they would be happy to provide 
financial advice instead. 
From what Ive seen, the process outlined in the letter was started for Mr N, and the new 
business the IFA had set up was contacted. But the servicing rights werent transferred. So 
MPA continued to receive the trail commission, rather than Mr Ns IFA receiving it through 
his new business.
MPA told this service that the vast majority of the IFA's clients transferred agency with no 
issue. They couldnt explain why the servicing rights hadnt been transferred for Mr N. But 
said that it had been the IFAs responsibility to make this happen. They also said that at the 
time they were in the process of changing their back-office systems. And that Mr N had 
remained on the old system, and hadnt transferred to the new system. 
MPA also said that theyd agreed with the IFA that they wouldnt contact his clients. They 
shared the consultancy agreement between them and the departing IFA. This covered 
Termination and said:
14.6 On termination of the contract the Consultants shall retain the clients originally 
introduced to MPAFM and any additional clients that the Consultant introduces to MPAFM. 
MPA FM shall retain all clients they introduced to the Consultant.
As this agreement didnt seem to explicitly prohibit MPA from contacting the IFA's clients, our investigator asked MPA why theyd considered that they couldnt contact Mr N. They 
said that they considered that 14.6 meant that on termination of the contract, as his clients 
would be retained by the IFA, they would be his clients to contact, not MPAs.
I consider that the evidence shows that MPA understood that the IFAs clients would remain 
his clients, and would transfer to his new business as soon as possible. They made an 
agreement not to contact those clients. I dont know whether or not the agreement was 
legally binding, but Im persuaded that MPA treated it as such. 
Its clear that Mr N wasnt contacted by MPA after his IFA left. But Im satisfied that there 
was no requirement on MPA to contact him as they had no obligation to provide him with an 
ongoing service. Im also satisfied that the letter MPA sent Mr N explaining what would 
happen after his IFA had left stated that the IFA would be in contact. I consider that when he 
didnt made contact, Mr N couldve followed up with him. 
Overall, I dont consider it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold MPA responsible for not 
informing Mr N of the trail commission. Im satisfied that they couldve reasonably expected 
Mr N to have been properly informed of the fee basis at the time his PP was set up. And 
while I acknowledge that Mr N mightve expected to get something in return for the trail 
commission he knew had been paid to MPA after his IFA had moved his business to them, 
Im satisfied that the trail commission didnt in itself create any obligation on MPA to provide 
a service to Mr N. Therefore, I dont consider that MPA should refund the trail commission 
theyve received. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman