DRN-2888787
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected her claim under S 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a mis-sold timeshare membership. 
What happened
Mrs C purchased a timeshare membership in November 2008 funded by a point of sale loan.  
She says her and her family were pressurised into taking out membership which turned out 
to be worthless. Mrs C says that when they sought to make use of their membership they 
had to pay additional fees. She says they had to sell their house to pay off the debt.
Clydesdale rejected the claim as it was made out of time and so Mrs C brought her 
complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld as it fell outside the time limits.
Mrs C didnt agree and restated the details of the purchase and explained the pressurised 
sales process to which they had been subjected. She said that the initial sale fell outside the 
Timeshare Act 1992. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice. I have every sympathy with Mrs C and her 
family, but regardless of the circumstances of the sale I have to consider whether her claim 
falls within the time limits as set out in law.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mrs C 
has a like claim against Clydesdale just as she would have against the supplier. So, if her 
claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers her claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mrs C has 
said the timeshare she bought was misrepresented to her.
Under the Limitation Act, Mrs C would have six years from the date upon which she suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring a claim. 
As Clydesdale steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work 
out when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mrs C suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 Mrs C says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, she paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused her to suffer a loss. She says that but for the 
misrepresentation, she wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in November 2008. Thats the moment when Mrs C accepted any potential benefit 
under the contract, and it was also the moment she accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, she 
needed to raise her claim no later than November 2014. As I understand it, she raised her 
claim in March 2020, which is more than 11 years after the loss occurred.
She may say that she wasnt aware she could raise concerns about the misrepresentation 
until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date she became aware that 
something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mrs C would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information I 
have, the finance agreement ended in June 2010 so a s.140A claim needed to be raised no 
later than June 2016. As I understand it, Mrs C raised her claim in March 2020, which is 
more than 11 years after her finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mrs C may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mrs Cs misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that Mrs Cs claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I 
think Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman