DRN-3307224
The complaint
Mrs W complaints about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who declined her claim under her 
furniture insurance. 
What happened
Mrs W purchased a sofa in 2016 and paid for the warranty to be extended for a further five 
years. In 2020 she made a claim for a fault with the sofa. A technician repaired the sofa and 
during the repair, Mrs W pointed out that the stitching had come away at the seams. She 
said she was told by the technician that this wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mrs W later decided to purchase a new sofa. She told the sales representative about the 
damage to her existing sofa and was told that the split seams would be covered. By this 
time, the extended warranty had expired, but Mrs W contacted Ageas and raised a 
complaint. 
Mrs W sent in photos of the damage, but Ageas felt it necessary to send another technician 
to inspect the damage. In his report, he concluded that the stitching hadnt failed, but the 
material had frayed. The report confirmed that this wasnt due to any defect. So, Ageas was 
unable to take Mrs Ws claim any further and she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He 
said that from the photos that he had seen, its clear that the fabric had come apart at or very 
close to the seams. He explained that our approach is that the policyholder wouldve had a 
legitimate expectation that the damage would be covered under the policy. He 
recommended that Ageas pay £300 towards the cost of a new sofa, as Mrs W no longer had 
the damaged sofa. 
Mrs W accepted the view, Ageas did not. It said the damage is the failure of the fabric itself. 
The damage is not very close to the seams and the policy does not have cover for seams 
but the for the unstitching of buttons or failure of any stitching. No Stitching had failed. 
Accordingly, Ageas asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 12 January 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
9 February 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint, which I expect Mrs W will be 
disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is fair.  
The main issue of this complaint is the damage caused to the sofa and whether under the 
policy terms, this damage was covered. I have reviewed the policy terms that were provided 
by Ageas and I note that they relate to policies that started from July 2015. Ageas confirmed 
that the terms wouldve been the same terms, in 2016, when Mrs W bought the sofa. 
Under the section of structural defects, it lists Unstitching of buttons or failure of any 
stitching. as being covered under the policy. Ageas has confirmed that the separation of 
seams or splitting seams would not be covered. And it seems that Mrs W provided a policy 
document which didnt form part of the warranty in 2016. 
The cover in 2016 provided that the policy lasted for five years and that any damage caused 
by the effects of sunlight, would be excluded. 
Mrs W first reported the damage to the sofa to a technician who had attended to repair 
another fault. That repair took place during the warranty period, so Im satisfied that Mrs W 
did report the fabric damage within the warranty period of five years.  From what I have read, 
the technician failed to correctly advise Mrs W to contact Ageas for it to assess the damaged 
fabric, which meant that it wasnt until a few months later (and after the warranty had 
expired) that Mrs W contacted Ageas about the damage. 
Ageas accepted that this amounted to a poor level of customer service and because of this 
Ageas instructed a technician to assess the fabric damage, despite the warranty having 
expired. And I think this was fair. 
The technician who attended to assess the damage wrote a report which I have reviewed. It 
said:
THE FABRICS HAVE PULLED APART ON BOTH, THE SEAMS REMAIN TOGETHER 
ONLY. THE FABRIC HAS LOST ALL STRENGTH. RE SEW HAS BEEN ATTEMPTED BY 
CM. THE BACKING HAS LOST SUITABLE STRENGTH WITH SUNLIGHT CONTACT 
OVER TIME. HOW DID IT HAPPEN: THE AREAS OF STRENGTH LOSS ARE THOSE IN 
DIRECT SUNLIGHT POSITION, THE RH AREA IS NOT AFFECTED TO THE AREA NOT 
IN SUNLIGHT, DESPITE NET CURTAINS THIS DOES SHOW TO BE SUNLIGHT 
RELATED. NO MECHANISM OR STRUCTURE ISSUES.
Ageas also confirmed that some fabrics dont fade when in sunlight. And this was the reason 
why there was no fading noted on the material. The technician concluded that the seams 
were intact and that the fabric had lost resilience, due to sunlight. 
I have next considered the photographs of the damaged sofa that both parties provided. 
Although I can see separation of the fabric, the photos show that the seams are intact and 
some of the fabric covering the furniture has not come away from or at the seams. Which the 
technician explained in his report. Consequently, I am persuaded that there wasnt any 
separation of the seams.  
Generally, we think that policyholders would have a legitimate expectation that if the fabric 
covering the furniture came away from or at the seam, then this would be covered by the 
policy. And we would uphold a complaint as we wouldnt think it was fair. But, Mrs Ws policy 
terms and conditions, did not cover for the separation of seams nor did it cover for loss of 
resilience of the fabric. Considering this, I m satisfied that the damage wasnt covered under 
the policy terms and Ageas were fair to decline the claim.Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Mrs W was looking for, I 
am satisfied that Ageas fairly declined the claim in line with the policy. So, Im unable to ask 
it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W responded as follows:
The policy shows that stitching and splitting seams are covered. And as Ageas confirmed that 
it wasnt covered, this was irrelevant as it had not been communicated to Mrs W. 
Mrs W said that she could only assume that damage caused by sunlight was hidden within 
the terms and conditions of the policy as it wasnt made clear to her, and this wasnt treating 
customers fairly. Also, this term would impact where an item of furniture could be placed. 
And gave Ageas a get out clause for rejecting a claim. 
Mrs W reiterated that the policy covered for seams and stitching, and the photographs 
showed this. She also disagreed that sunlight was the cause of the loss of resilience of the 
fabric. 
Ageas had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
I have carefully considered Mrs Ws responses. In the provisional decision, I reviewed all the 
evidence and the issues raised by Mrs W.  I appreciate that Mrs W now says that the main 
issues are with the seams, stitching and whether sunlight was an exclusion in the policy, 
however, these points were covered in the provisional decision. 
Mrs W provided me with the terms and conditions, which is an eight-page document that 
outlines what the policy covers and what is excluded. The policy states that structural 
defects such as seams splitting or stitching becoming loose, will be covered. So, I agree that 
Mrs W is correct to say that the splitting seams or loose stitching is covered. 
But Ageas has relied upon the furniture expert who examined the furniture to assess 
damage. That report concluded that the fabric had pulled apart, the seams were still intact, 
the fabric had lost its strength due to that part of the furniture having been in direct sunlight. 
Mrs W hasnt provided any expert evidence that supports her position. She has provided 
some photographs of the damage. Ageas has also provided photographs and I have 
carefully considered all the photographs. From what I can see, the photos show the fabric 
having been pulled apart/frayed. They also show that the seams are intact, and the stitching 
is intact. So, Im persuaded by Ageas experts report that the damage caused to the 
furniture showed that the seams and stitching were unaffected. 
Mrs W has raised the issue that the terms and conditions didnt make it clear that damage by 
sunlight was excluded. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and the document itself is relatively short. 
On page eight of the policy under the heading of important information, under the section of 
exclusions and limitations, at point four at the top of the page, it states that the effect of 
sunlight is excluded. So, I think the exclusion was set out in the policy and wasnt hidden as 
Mrs W believed it was. 
In the circumstances, as Mrs Ws policy didnt provide cover for frayed fabric or loss of 
resilience in the fabric due to exposure to sunlight, Im not satisfied that the damage on the furniture was covered under the policy. Although, I understand that this isnt the outcome 
that Mrs W wouldve liked, Im unable to direct Ageas to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint, as I think it was fair to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman