DRN-3047186
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 August 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. 
In summary, the investigator had said that St Pauls Marketing had cold called Mrs R and 
offered her a pension review. She said she understood St Pauls Marketing would have 
provided promotional material to Mrs R relating to an investment in debentures issued by 
Just Loans.
Mrs R subsequently opened a SIPP and the value of two personal pensions of just over 
£22,000 was transferred to it in July 2016. A stockbroking account was set up and the 
majority of the money was transferred to that account and invested in Just Loans 
debentures.
Mrs R, through her representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David 
Securities Limited in January 2020. It said that St Pauls Marketing had failed to ensure the 
suitability of its advice to switch pensions and invest in a non-standard asset which was 
high risk and unregulated.
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative 
subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to 
provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files or 
evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that from the information that had been provided she thought it was 
likely that St Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mrs R. It had provided 
all the information about the debentures and the benefits of transferring her existing 
pensions to the SIPP. The investigator noted that St Pauls Marketing hadnt disputed this.
The investigator said that Mrs R was in her mid-40s and the two pensions were her only 
pension provision. She had no other investments, and the investigator said she was a low
risk investor who couldnt afford to lose the value of her pensions. The investigator thought
that investing the pensions into high risk bonds wasnt in line with Mrs Rs objectives at 
the time. And that an adviser providing a recommendation that was in Mrs Rs best 
interest should have recognised this.
The investigator said that St Pauls Marketing had arranged the investment for Mrs R and 
she considered that COBS 10 applied (Conduct of Business Rules).
The investigator said that COBS 10.2.1 provided:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the 
firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation 
to the product or service offered or demanded.
She said Mrs R had no significant investment knowledge or experience. And that if it 
wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement it was unlikely that Mrs R would have gone 
ahead with the investment.
The investigator also noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect 
consumers, and its rules reflected this objective. She said the Principles required St Pauls 
Marketing to, amongst other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat 
them fairly, and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In my provisional decision I said the investigator said that she didnt think that St Pauls 
Marketing hadnt met its obligations under the Principles. However this should have 
said had met. She said if it had it wouldnt have recommended the investment to Mrs R.
The investigator sent her view of the complaint to both parties. Alexander David didnt 
respond. Mrs R said that she would like any compensation paid directly into her bank 
account. The investigator wrote to both parties on 8 June 2021 to say the complaint would 
be passed to an ombudsman. Alexander David provided no further evidence or 
arguments.
In my provisional findings I noted that Alexander David hadnt responded to Mrs Rs original 
complaint or to the investigators requests for information. So there was only very limited 
evidence available to establish what happened at the time of the transfer (technically known 
as a switch) and investment.
I said when Mrs R complained to Alexander David through her representative it said Mrs 
R was complaining about the advice St Pauls Marketing had given her to transfer her 
secure and effectively low risk pension to a SIPP, and invest in high risk investments. It 
said Mrs R wasnt a sophisticated investor, was of relatively modest means, and had 
never invested in an unregulated or collective investment scheme before. It said the 
debentures were promoted as a good investment and would provide good returns in the 
future. The representative had said Mrs R wasnt willing to accept a high degree of risk, 
and wasnt in a position to sustain any significant losses  she relied on St Pauls 
Marketings advice.
There was little contemporaneous evidence from the time of the advice. The SIPP provider 
had said that St Pauls Marketing would have introduced Mrs R to the SIPP and was 
involved in promoting the Just Loans debentures. So this was consistent with St Pauls 
Marketing being involved in the transaction in some way.
I said Alexander David hadnt responded to the complaint made to it. When it was referred 
to us the investigator had set out her thoughts on the matter in her assessment, and 
Alexander David hadnt disputed what she said or provided any further evidence or 
arguments.I was satisfied that St Pauls Marketing had been involved from the outset and following its 
input Mrs R had transferred her pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. I said 
in my experience it was unusual for someone of Mrs Rs background and experience to 
want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of investment without 
prompting. I thought it was unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls 
Marketing. I was satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It 
was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it.
When Mrs R complained to Alexander David shed said it had advised her to switch her 
pension to invest in the debentures through the SIPP. The investigator had said she didnt 
think the advice was suitable. The firm hadnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and 
on the balance of the limited evidence that was available, I thought it was more likely than 
not that St Pauls Marketing had advised Mrs R to switch her pension and invest in the 
debentures. And given the significant risks presented by the investment, I didnt think it 
was suitable for Mrs R in her circumstances. She hadnt got the capacity to accept the loss 
of the investment, and had limited investment knowledge and experience to understand 
and appreciate the risks the transaction presented.
I said even if St Pauls Marketing hadnt given advice to Mrs R, I thought the evidence 
showed it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily 
realisable security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Rs knowledge 
and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service 
offered or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for 
her. Mrs R had said she had no other savings or investments at the time, had little 
investment experience and Alexander David hadnt disputed this.
The debentures presented significant risks. I said in my view they werent appropriate for 
Mrs R given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls 
Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I said I thought it was clear that 
the debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mrs R.  I also didnt think the firm had met 
its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business; it failed to act in Mrs Rs bests 
interests by not ensuring the investment was appropriate for Mrs R. And it failed to ensure 
the suitability of its advice, which I think Mrs R was entitled to reply on.
I was satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs R to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent appropriate or suitable for her, she wouldnt 
have transferred and invested in them. I said I was satisfied that St Pauls Marketings 
failures had caused Mrs R to transfer and invest in a product that she would otherwise not 
have invested into. I was satisfied its failures caused the losses that Mrs R had claimed.
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. And I outlined what I thought was fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider. 
Mrs Rs representative said that she agreed with the provisional decision. However it said 
she would like payment of the compensation made to her direct rather than back into her 
SIPP account. The representative said as the SIPP was set up to invest into the scheme it 
wouldnt be suitable for the money to be paid back into the SIPP. 
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further submissions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision to uphold the complaint.
I think the methodology as set out in my provisional decision provides for fair compensation 
in this case. And that any compensation should be paid into Mrs Rs SIPP  at least in the 
first instance, and subject to the provisions set out in my provisional decision. Those monies 
would have been in a pension even if Mrs R hadnt been advised to transfer. So I think the 
starting point is that its appropriate to pay compensation (if any is due) into the pension  
albeit the payment for distress and inconvenience (which is due) can be paid to Mrs R direct.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs R as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. 
I dont think Mrs R would have transferred her pension if she had been given suitable 
advice. However I think Mrs R would have invested differently. She had little capacity for 
loss and wasnt willing to take significant risks with her money. I think her existing funds 
presented a higher degree of risk than was suitable for her circumstances. So I think Mrs R 
would likely have switched to funds more appropriately aligned with suitable advice. Its not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Rs circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mrs R fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of
Mrs Rs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater
than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mrs Rs pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Rs
pension plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the
plan it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The
notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Rs actual or expected marginal rate of
tax at her selected retirement age.
I think Mrs R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so thereduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs R would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mrs R £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her given the uncertainty surrounding the suitability of how her pension was 
invested.
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax  
from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment
name      Status    BenchmarkFrom
(start date)    To
(end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment 25 
January 
2019The same
benchmark on the
loss calculated as
at 25 January
2019 to decision
date. Then 8%
simple a year from
date of decision to
date of settlement
if settlement isnt
made within 28
days of Alexander
David being
notified of Mrs Rs
acceptance of this
decision
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges incurred on 
transfer would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. Any 
additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the point 
in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the 
SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
Why is this remedy suitable?The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only in 
a position to take a limited risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs R into that position. It doesnt mean Mrs R 
would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider 
this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs R could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision as set out above, I uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs R as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14c October 2021.. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman