DRN-2972269
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc will not accept overpayments she wants to make 
towards her mortgage account.
What happened
Miss S has an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland. She pays her contractual 
monthly repayments from a current account held with another business. The current account 
is a sole trader account for Miss S business.
Miss S was making regular overpayments to her mortgage by standing order  also from her 
sole trader account.
Miss S attempted to make an overpayment of £100 by standing order in April 2019. This was 
unsuccessful. So, she complained to Bank of Scotland about this.
Bank of Scotland apologised. It said it had recently changed its processes and was not 
accepting payments to a mortgage from third party accounts. But it said, as Miss S account 
was actually a sole trader account, her payment shouldve been exempt from this. To put 
things right Bank of Scotland said it would pay £100 to her mortgage  representing the 
overpayment shed been unable to make  and pay a further £100 to Miss S for the upset 
caused.
Another standing order overpayment then failed at the end of May 2019 for £200. So, Miss S 
complained again. Bank of Scotland apologised that the previous issue had not been fixed. 
To put things right, it said it would credit another £200 to Miss S mortgage  the amount 
shed tried to pay by standing order but not been able to. It also suggested that Miss S make 
overpayments by debit card until the issue was resolved.
Miss S made overpayments by debit card for the next several months. The debit card was 
again linked to her sole trader current account. Miss S did raise concerns about this though. 
She said, when shed been overpaying by standing order, shed always received notification 
of a recalculation of her contractual monthly repayment. But this hadnt happened since she 
began paying by debit card. Then, when Miss S tried to make a debit card overpayment in 
December 2019 for £100, this was unsuccessful. So, she raised the issue with Bank of 
Scotland again.
Bank of Scotland again apologised. It explained that it had made changes to its processes 
and taken the decision that it would no longer accept payments to mortgages from third party 
and business accounts. It said that this was in light of changes to regulations around anti-
money laundering. It said this had been behind the issues since April 2019  as the account 
holder name on Miss S sole trader account meant it had been identified as a third-party 
account. 
It said that initially only standing orders had been impacted. But debit card transactions had 
also now been impacted  which was the reason for the issues Miss S had experienced with 
her December 2019 payment. It also said that this would likely be expanded further and 
would begin impacting Miss S direct debit, set up to make her contractual repayments  as 
these were also coming from her sole trader account. As a result, it said shed need to open 
a current account in her own name to service her mortgage moving forward. Bank of 
Scotland acknowledged however that this hadnt been clearly explained. So, it offered a 
further £100 compensation for the upset caused and to make another payment of £100 
towards Miss S mortgage, to cover the overpayment that shed been prevented from making 
in December 2019.
In relation to not receiving notification of the account being recalculated, Bank of Scotland 
explained that it has two different ways of processing overpayments. But only one results in 
an automatic recalculation of the contractual monthly repayment. It said that the payments 
had been credited to the account and had reduced the balance owed, so Miss S hadnt lost 
out. But it said it would recalculate her monthly repayments as requested.
Miss S then asked our service to consider her complaint.
I issued a provisional decision In June 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold Miss S 
complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
Business are entitled to set their own processes, including their requirements around 
accepting payments. These are a matter of commercial judgement and not something I can 
interfere with. Bank of Scotland has said it changed its policy on accepting repayments 
towards mortgages in early 2019  in particular acceptable sources of funds. And it says it 
did so to comply with updated regulations. This decision was a matter Bank of Scotlands 
judgement and seems to have been taken for legitimate reasons. So, I dont think I can say it 
acted unreasonably when doing so.
The issue I have to consider is how this has affected Miss S and if she has been treated 
fairly.
Miss S tried to make overpayments to her mortgage in April, May and December 2019, but 
these were rejected by Bank of Scotlands systems  apparently due to the changes to its 
policies around third-party payments. I cant see that Miss S was informed in advance that 
standing order payments, applicable to the April and May 2019 payments, or debit card 
payments, December 2019, would be impacted this way. But on each of these occasions 
Bank of Scotland made payments to her mortgage equivalent to the overpayments she was 
trying to make (totalling £400). And it paid her £200 on top of this for the upset caused. So, 
in respect of these attempted overpayments, I dont think Miss S has lost out  in fact she is 
in a better position as Bank of Scotland have made the overpayments on her behalf. So, I 
think what Bank of Scotland has done to address this is fair.
Miss S main concerns regarding overpayments now seems to be that she has been unable 
to make any since December 2019, due to Bank of Scotland changing its process.
Looking at the responses that Bank of Scotland sent to Miss S, I think there has been some 
conflicting information provided. The responses it sent after the failed overpayments in April 
and May 2019 said that, although Bank of Scotland was not accepting mortgage payments 
from third parties, Miss S repayments shouldnt have been affected. This was because sole 
trader accounts were exempt.Following the unsuccessful overpayment in December 2019 Bank of Scotland sent a further 
written response which indicated that its previous response was incorrect. It suggested that 
the attempted manual payments by standing order and debit card had been rejected 
correctly  because the account belonged to the sole trader not Miss S. And it went on to 
say that this was likely to impact the direct debit Miss S had in place and that she needed to 
open another current account to service the mortgage.
But Ive also seen contact notes detailing conversations after this written response where 
Bank of Scotland appears to have told Miss S that the issue was in fact how the sole trader 
account was set up  the prominent name being her business rather than hers. It appears 
that Bank of Scotland indicated that if she amended this with her bank, the direct debit 
payments could continue, as sole trader accounts were exempt. And it looks like Miss S did 
so and the contractual monthly repayments have continued to be made from this account.
As Ive said, this information does seem to conflict. First Miss S was told it appeared to be an 
error by Bank of Scotland, several months later she was told there was no error and then 
she was told the problem was with her sending account and its name. So, I can understand 
why Miss S mayve been confused by this.
Bank of Scotland has clarified that Miss S should have been able to carry on making 
overpayments from her sole trader account, as she had done previously. The issue 
preventing this was that its systems were picking the account up as belonging to a third 
party, due to how it was named  with the trading name listed first. It has said after the name 
was changed, this issue was rectified so payments from the account could continue.
It appears Miss S updated her account details with her bank to allow this. And as Ive said, 
Ive seen some contact notes indicating this was done after a discussion with Bank of 
Scotland. But based on what Ive seen so far, Im not sure the extent to which this action 
would resolve the overall problem, and the central issue she has complained about, was 
explained to Miss S.
Miss Ss concerns, at the time this was discussed, were that overpayments had been 
stopped and that her contractual monthly payments might also be stopped moving forward  
as Bank of Scotland had suggested in the response it sent in December 2019. It appears 
that the discussion around changing the name on the originating account was to resolve the 
second concern - about the contractual repayments. But I cant see that it was ever 
explained to Miss S that this would also allow her to begin making overpayments again.
I think this is supported by Miss S not then attempting to make overpayments. Ive seen 
evidence that Miss S had a history of making regular overpayments to the account. If shed 
been told the change of name on the originating account would resolve things, and she 
could make debit card or standing order overpayments again, I think shed have attempted 
to do so. I think her not knowing this is also supported by the complaint made to our service 
 as she has repeatedly asked why her contractual monthly repayments could be accepted 
from her sole trading account but not overpayments. I think this suggests she wasnt aware 
that the change of name on the account had in fact, according to Bank of Scotland, resolved 
all issues regarding payments  specifically that she was now able to make overpayments 
as she had been doing for some time. And Im also conscious that the information shed 
received previously about all of this  particularly in Bank of Scotlands written responses  
was conflicting and unclear.
So, I think Bank of Scotland couldve done a better job of explaining things to Miss S. 
Particularly so following the update she made to the originating account  when I think Bank 
of Scotland shouldve made her aware, she could make overpayments again.Ive thought about what would likely have happened if Bank of Scotland had been clearer 
about this. And I think Miss S wouldve attempted to make overpayments to her mortgage 
since that time, where she had the funds available to do so. So, I think she has lost out as, 
had she been aware she could make these overpayments as the issues were resolved, the 
outstanding balance on her mortgage wouldve reduced at the time those payments were 
made. Which means she wouldve paid less interest. So, Ive thought about what a fair way 
to address this would be.
If Miss S does not have funds available to make overpayments to the mortgage at this time, 
then I think it is fair to say that she has had the benefit of any money she mayve previously 
earmarked for overpayments to the mortgage. And in those circumstances, I dont think 
Bank of Scotland needs to do make any adjustments to the mortgage.
But if Miss S has money available now to overpay the mortgage  and can show that she 
had that money available at any stage from January 2020 onwards  I think Bank of 
Scotland does need to take further action. I think its likely, but for not being aware the issue 
was resolved, Miss S wouldve made overpayments in this scenario. So, I think Bank of 
Scotland should accept those overpayments now and rework the account on the basis that 
they wouldve been made at the time.
For example, if Miss S can show she wouldve paid an extra £200 to reduce the mortgage 
balance in June 2020 and she still has that money available now, Bank of Scotland should 
accept the overpayment and back date it as if it was applied in June 2020. Any interest 
reduction that shouldve been received would need to be calculated and Miss S could decide 
whether to receive that as a refund or use it to further reduce the mortgage balance. Bank of 
Scotland has indicated itd be willing to do this
I also think this ongoing confusion, due to the lack of clarity by Bank of Scotland, has caused 
Miss S further trouble and upset that couldve been avoided. And I think Bank of Scotland 
should make a further payment to address that. Taking everything into account, including the 
redress that Bank of Scotland has already paid, I think itd be fair for it to pay Miss S a 
further £150 to address this.
Turning to Miss S concerns about the monthly contractual repayment not automatically 
being recalculated after her overpayments from April 2019 onwards  I dont think Bank of 
Scotland needs to do more on this point.
It has explained that it does not always automatically recalculate the contractual repayments 
following an overpayment. This is because it has two different ways of dealing with 
overpayments. I know Miss S is frustrated as previously her overpayments have led to a 
recalculation. But again, Bank of Scotland is entitled to decide its internal processes.
Here Ive seen evidence that the overpayments were correctly applied to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the account. And I havent seen anything that leads me to think the 
account has been administered incorrectly. With her repayments not being recalculated, 
Miss S has continued to make repayments marginally higher than she needed to  so has 
overpaid a little more. Meaning overall, she has a marginally lower total amount outstanding 
that she otherwise wouldve done. So, Miss S has not lost out.
After Miss S raised her concerns about this, Bank of Scotland recalculated the monthly 
repayments at her request. And again, I havent seen anything that leads me to think this 
was done incorrectly.Taking all of this into account, while I know Miss S is frustrated with how this was done, I 
dont think Bank of Scotland has made an error or that she has incurred a loss because of 
how the overpayments that were successful after April 2019 were applied to the account. So, 
I dont think Bank of Scotland needs to do anything further in respect of this.
So, in summary, to put things right I think Bank of Scotland plc, should pay Miss S £150 for 
the upset caused by the lack of clarity in its communication with her.
In addition, if Miss S can provide it with evidence shed have made overpayments, but for the 
lack of clarity, Bank of Scotland plc should look to back date those overpayments and re- 
work the mortgage account accordingly, once the payments are made. And given Bank of 
Scotlands previous lack of clarity I think itd be helpful, if this does happen, for it to write to 
Miss S setting out exactly what it has done, and how it affects her mortgage going forward.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Bank of Scotland said it accepted my provisional decision and was willing to carry out the 
actions Id suggested to settle matters.
Miss S also indicated that she broadly agreed. She said, following my provisional decision, 
she had now set up a standing order to make overpayments again and hoped that issue had 
now been resolved. Although she wasnt sure if her contractual repayments would be 
adjusted as a result of this.
Miss S said she would indeed have made overpayments after January 2020 had she known 
she could and agreed it was disappointing that the communication from Bank of Scotland 
around this hadnt been better. She noted it was difficult to say retrospectively exactly how 
much shed have paid and when, particularly as the initial onset of the pandemic mightve 
impacted how much shed have paid. But she felt she would have paid at least another £100 
per month most months since she was last able to make an overpayment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, and because it appears both parties are broadly in 
agreement with my provisional findings, I see little reason to depart from them.
Bank of Scotland has confirmed that the overpayment Miss S made since my provisional 
decision has been successfully credited to the mortgage account.
Miss S has mentioned she is concerned that, now she is making overpayments again, Bank 
of Scotland will not automatically update her contractual repayment  one of the concerns 
she raised previously.As I said in my provisional findings, Bank of Scotland has explained that it does not always 
automatically recalculate the contractual monthly repayment on a mortgage following an 
overpayment being made. Bank of Scotlands processes for how it handles overpayments 
are ultimately a matter of its commercial judgement. So, I dont think I can say it has to 
change its systems to ensure that her repayments are always updated. And provided the 
overpayment is correctly credited to the account, Miss S should not lose out. But I would 
expect, if Miss S asks Bank of Scotland to recalculate her repayments from time to time, 
after she has made overpayments, that it would do so.
Miss S has said it is difficult to work out now how much she mightve overpaid previously, 
had she known she could. And I accept this. But I think it is reasonable that Bank of Scotland 
would rely on her to work this out, and that it would require evidence of funds being available 
at the time before backdating overpayments. And overall, I think its agreement to do this, on 
receipt of the relevant evidence, is a fair methodology for putting things right. So, I dont 
intend to arbitrate here on the exact amounts that mightve been overpaid, but for the poor 
communication, or when these payments wouldve taken place.
So overall, my opinion remains largely as set out in my provisional findings and summarised 
above. I think Bank of Scotlands actions to resolve the issues with overpayments up to the 
problems encountered in December 2019 were fair. But I think it couldve communicated 
more clearly with Miss S from December 2019 onwards and if it had done so the issues 
encountered since would likely have been resolved sooner. And as a result, I think it should 
do more to put things right, as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss S complaint in part.
To put things right I direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay Miss S £150 for the upset caused by 
the lack of clarity in its communication with her.
In addition, if Miss S can provide it with evidence, shed have made overpayments, but for 
the lack of clarity, Bank of Scotland plc should look to back date those overpayments and re- 
work the mortgage account accordingly, once the payments are made. And, if this does 
happen, it should provide Miss S a summary setting out exactly what it has done, and how 
this affects her mortgage going forward.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman