DRN-2398309
The complaint
Mr H complains about fees applied to his account by Creation Financial Services Limited
(Creation).
What happened
In February 2020, Mr H used his Creation credit card to make a purchase while he was
abroad. He checked his account the following day and, seeing that the payment had been
applied, he cleared the balance. But, shortly afterwards, the amount debited for the purchase
increased by around £170. Mr H paid this off straight away. But he didnt know why the
amount had increased and, based on the exchange rate at the time, he thought he had been
overcharged. He called Creation to query it on 28 February, but the call handler couldnt tell
him what the extra amount was for. She said she would ask the relevant department to look
into it and get back to Mr H.
Mr H told the agent that he was about to make another purchase on the card for an amount
close to the credit limit. He was concerned about the same thing happening again, as he
didnt want the card to be declined.
Mr H then made the second purchase using the card. The amount charged to his card was
around £8,200 initially. But, shortly afterwards, this increased to more than £8,400, which
took Mr H over his credit limit. Creation applied an over-limit fee of £12.
The additional charges on Mr Hs account were foreign currency conversion fees of 2.99%
which Creation had applied to each purchase. Mr H complained to Creation and asked them
to refund the fees. But they said the fees were outlined in the terms and conditions of Mr Hs
account, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H wasnt happy with Creations response
and brought his complaint to this service. He accepts the fee for the first transaction. But he
says that the second fee is unfair because Creation should have made him aware of it when
he called about the first purchase. He doesnt think its fair that this took him over his credit
limit, and he says it had a negative impact on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think Creation had acted fairly. He recommended that they refund the
over-limit fee and half of the conversion fee applied to the transaction on 28 February. But
Creation didnt accept our investigators recommendation, so the complaint was passed
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2020. Mr H accepted my provisional findings 
and Creation said they had no further points which they wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here, so Im 
going to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account say that he agrees to pay on demand a foreign
currency conversion fee of 2.99% and a fee of £12 for exceeding his credit limit. Mr H used
his card to make purchases in a foreign currency. So the terms and conditions allow
Creation to apply the conversion fee. As the second purchase together with the conversion
fee exceeded Mr Hs credit limit, Creation were entitled to charge the over-limit fee. But, in
this case, I dont think reliance on the terms and conditions alone leads to a fair outcome. Ill
explain why.
When Mr H called Creation after the first purchase, he told the call handler which country he
was in and the currency of the purchase. I think it should have been apparent to the call
handler that a currency conversion fee had been applied. But the call handler didnt realise,
and didnt seem to be aware that the additional charge might have been a fee. I think its
reasonable to expect someone in that role to have had access to the relevant information so
that they could tell Mr H that a fee had been added to his account. In circumstances where
Creations agent didnt know what the charge was and couldnt access or interpret the
information which explained it, I dont think its reasonable for Creation to expect Mr H to
have known.
This is particularly the case in relation to the fee applied to the second purchase. Mr H made
Creation aware that he was planning to make the purchase, and the nature of it meant it had
to be paid for that day. He was concerned about going over his credit limit. I think Mr H was
acting responsibly by trying to find out what the additional charge was on the first purchase
and whether it would affect his second purchase. Creation should have been able to give
him an accurate answer. But the call handler couldnt tell Mr H why the amount of his
payment had increased and couldnt say when someone from the relevant department would
call him back.
Having listened to the call, Mr H was clearly under the impression that Creation had made a
mistake with the exchange rate. The conversion fees arent shown on Mr Hs statement as
separate items or labelled as fees. Rather, they are added to the amount of the purchase.
So, from Mr Hs point of view, it appeared that the amount he had paid for the purchase had
increased. The call handler didnt mention the conversion fee. At the end of the call, she said
she wasnt trained in working out exchange rates and that was why shed asked the relevant
department to look into it and work out the actual amount. She gave no indication that the
additional charge could be anything other than an issue with the exchange rate. In the
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Mr H went ahead with the second
purchase using the card.
Im satisfied that Mr H would have made the purchase using another payment method if hed
known a fee would apply and cause him to exceed his credit limit. Thats because he had
other funds available at the time and says he only used the card to earn points. But Creation
gave him unclear information. They should have been able to tell him that a conversion fee
had been applied. But the call handler didnt know that and didnt mention fees at all. In the
circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr H to have known that a fee would
apply to the second transaction. So he went ahead and used the card again, causing him to
incur a further fee and exceed his credit limit, which he says had a negative effect on his
credit file. If Creation had given Mr H the correct information, these negative consequences
wouldnt have arisen. So I dont think its fair that Mr H bears all of the responsibility for them.Putting things right
I think the fair outcome here is for Creation to refund to Mr H half of the foreign
currency conversion fee which was applied to the purchase on 28 February 2020 as well as
the over-limit fee of £12. And Creation should ask the credit reference agencies to
remove any associated adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Creation Financial 
Services Limited must:
refund half of the foreign currency conversion fee which was applied to Mr Hs 
purchase on 28 February 2020;
refund the over-limit fee of £12; and
ask the credit reference agencies to remove any associated adverse entries from Mr 
Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman