DRN-3235140
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given to him by Basi & Basi Financial Planning Limited in 
relation to the transfer of his Occupational Pension Schemes (OPS). He states, in short, that 
the advice was not explained thoroughly, was unclear, and contained errors which resulted 
in him transferring the OPS, a course of action which Mr F now believes was not in his best 
interests.
The advice was provided by Onvestor Reporting (Onvestor) a trading name of Onvestor 
Advisory Limited which is an Appointed Representative of Basi & Basi Financial Planning 
Limited. As such I have referred to the business as Onvestor throughout the decision 
below.
What happened
Having relocated overseas, Mr F received advice on transferring his OPS benefits to a 
Qualifying Regulated Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) by his adviser in his country of 
residence. I have referred to this business as Firm B.  
Pension regulation in the UK at the time required individuals with safeguarded benefits within 
an OPS with a transfer value in excess of £30,000 to get advice from a suitably qualified 
individual from within a UK regulated business before these benefits could be transferred.
The trustees of OPS schemes were required to ensure advice had been received by 
individuals looking to transfer benefits and as such would ask for a Confirmation of Financial 
Advice Certificate before any transfers out were completed. This certificate would confirm 
the name of the business that had provided the advice and that the business had the 
required regulatory approvals to provide such advice.
This regulation was introduced to protect members with safeguarded benefits. It did not 
require that the advice actually supports the transfer. Transfers could  and can still  be 
processed when the advice received is to retain the OPS benefits. As such advice 
certificates frequently simply state that advice has been given, without further detail as to 
whether the advice supported the transfer or not. 
As Firm B were not regulated in the UK, they could not provide such advice nor the 
certificate that would be required by the trustees of Mr Fs OPS pensions, Firm B requested 
Onvestor provide such advice to Mr F.
The Client engagement and Charging Terms document set out Onvestors role and the 
services they would offer. This explained that they would assess the suitability of transferring 
the OPS benefits to the new scheme which had been recommended by Firm B. The 
document also explained how Onvestor would be paid for their services, confirming that the 
fee received by Onvestor would be the same regardless of whether the advice supported the 
transfer or not. In addition the document clarified that the advice provided by Onvestor would 
be based on information provided to them by Firm B and that Mr F would need to be 
prepared to fully and openly discuss various areas of his financial circumstances including 
his attitude to risk, goals and objectives and his existing financial arrangements. Mr F signed 
this document on 7 September 2017.
The advice was based on Mr Fs personal and financial circumstances as documented in a 
fact find provided to Onvestor by Firm B, which was signed by Mr F on 7 September 2017.
Onvestor documented their advice in the suitability letter dated 25 September 2017. 
The suitability letter included:
 The overall recommendation not to transfer the OPS benefits.
 Advantages and disadvantages of following Onvestors recommendation.
 A summary of the existing schemes and the replacement scheme recommended by 
Firm B, including the underlying investments.
 Further details as to the reasons why Onvestor had concluded the OPS benefits 
should be retained.
 Confirmation that given the proximity of retirement, critical yield figures that had been 
calculated in the Pension Transfer Report (TVAS) were less relevant.
 Key figures calculated during the cashflow modelling which had been completed 
indicating the amount to be transferred was not sufficient to meet income needs in 
retirement based on a 2.5% growth rate each year.
 A summary of Mr Fs personal circumstances upon which the advice had been based 
 as per the fact find which had been passed to Onvestor by Firm B.
 Confirmation of Mr Fs attitude to risk based on the completed questionnaire.
 Confirmation that an annuity which would offer the same benefits as those provided 
by the OPS being considered for transfer would cost around £4m (this assumes that 
your ill-health issue does not affect your life expectancy). If you were to transfer your 
pension, the value of your benefits would drop dramatically.
 A calculation of the lifetime allowance tax charge that could be incurred upon 
transfer. The letter confirmed that this charge would be 25% if benefits were taken as 
income and 55% if taken as a lump sum with the subsequent calculation being done 
using the 55% figure.
On 29 September 2020, following an email from Mr F which raised concerns about the 
advice given, Onvestor registered a formal complaint on his behalf. Their response was 
issued on 5 November 2020. This rejected the complaint. 
Onvestor stated that the advice they gave in 2017 was to retain the existing OPS benefits 
and not to transfer, as such they did not consider themselves responsible for any losses 
which may have occurred following Mr Fs decision to transfer. In response to the points 
made by Mr F about inaccuracies and missing sections within the report, Onvestor stated 
that there was no requirement for any written report to be provided and that the material 
information from the missing section was also included within the written body of the report. 
Mr F did not accept these findings and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things and did not uphold the complaint. The investigator noted 
that the suitability letter issued stated five times that the overall advice was to retain the existing OPS benefits and not to transfer. Whilst it was accepted that the information given 
about the tax implications of the transfer could be incorrect, the tax consequences had in 
fact been over-stated and as such the investigator could not see how including a lower tax 
figure would have altered Mr Fs decision to transfer. The investigator agreed with Onvestor 
that there was no requirement for a written report to be provided and as such the issue 
around the missing section was not a material concern. Additionally, the insistent customer 
rules were considered, however it was concluded that as Onvestor did not instigate the 
transfer, these rules did not apply.
Mr F did not agree with our investigator and maintained (in summary) that Onvestor did not 
adhere to the regulations in force, did not do enough to establish his circumstances for 
themselves, issued a report with errors and omissions, and allowed Firm B to explain the 
report and impact his opinion of it. Mr F felt that Onvestor was involved in a papering 
exercise that may have looked to have been compliant but was in reality designed to make 
the transfer happen. Mr Fs additional points were noted by our investigator who was not 
minded to change his findings at that time.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his submissions to this service Mr F has referred to several sections of the FCA 
handbook which contains the regulations advisory businesses must follow. I wish to be clear 
that whilst I may not specifically refer to every section of the manual quoted by Mr F, all the 
submissions and commentary provided by all parties involved in this complaint has been 
fully considered. I should also note here that the references to the FCA handbook included 
below relate to those sections in force in September 2017 when this advice was given.
One such section referred to by Mr F relates to the issue around insistent clients and how 
businesses should act in those circumstances. Mr F has referred to COBS 9.5A and the 
subsections thereof. I have not considered this specific section of the regulation as this was 
introduced in January 2018  after the advice was given. It would not be appropriate to base 
this decision on regulation not in force at the time of advice.
Whilst the regulation referred to by Mr F was not in force at the time of advice, the FCA had 
issued bulletins to businesses in relation to insistent clients to ensure they were treated 
fairly. 
Below I have considered the advice given by Onvestor, but have firstly considered Mr Fs 
concerns around the insistent customer process and his belief that the advice provided by 
Onvestor was simply a papering exercise designed to simply facilitate the transfer of his 
OPS benefits.
In February 2016 the FCA provided guidance on its website about what steps it expected 
businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, which it set 
out on its website as follows:
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must be 
clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see COBS 
19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The insistent client process should be followed where a consumer has rejected a businesss 
advice and wishes that business to proceed with an alternative course of action. When this is 
the case, the business needed to firstly make sure that the initial (rejected) advice was 
suitable in the first instance and then make it clear to the consumer that the chosen course 
of action was against that advice. Later guidance from the FCA added requirements for 
businesses to document the reasons why a consumer had rejected advice and for the 
potential risks and consequences of the consumers chosen course of action to be explained 
before proceeding.
In this instance our investigator concluded that the insistent client process did not apply as 
Onvestor did not themselves give the initial advice in relation to the QROPS nor did they 
enact the transfer itself. 
Having looked at the chain of events above, I agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator. 
Mr F had already received advice on the QROPS from Firm B with Onvestors advice limited 
to whether the transfer of Mr Fs OPS benefits to that pension was suitable. The advice 
given by Onvestor was clear that the transfer was not suitable. From that point, Onvestor did 
not take any part in the eventual transfer of the OPS benefits. I have fully considered Mr Fs 
point that the transfer could not have proceeded without Onvestor providing the confirmation 
of advice certificate to his OPS trustees, however the provision of this document is not the 
same as Onvestor signing off on the transfer, rather it was simply confirmation that they 
had provided the service and advice they had been contracted to.
Mr F has also stated he considers the whole process to have been a papering exercise 
with the process manipulated in order to ensure the transfer happened. Having considered 
all of the evidence on file, I do not agree that this was the case. The client agreement is clear 
that there was no financial incentive for Onvestor to promote the transfer, with their fee being 
the same whether the transfer went ahead or not. 
Additionally, there is no evidence of any non-documented conversations between Mr F and 
Onvetsor where their written advice was contradicted in any way. Indeed, Mr F has 
confirmed that the only contact between himself and Onvestor was with the provision of the 
written suitability letter. This document, its content and the issues surrounding it are 
discussed further within this decision, however overall, I consider it to be clear that 
Onvestors advice was to retain the OPS benefits and that transferring was not suitable. 
Having considered the insistent client issue and the papering exercise issued above, I have 
gone on to consider the wider advice process followed by Onvestor in light of the regulations 
in place at the time. 
The specific areas which have formed the key elements of my decision are: 
COBS 19.1.2A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the 
key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison and its 
advice.
COBS 19.1.2A
A firm need not carry out the comparison described in COBS 19.1.2 if:
(1) the retail client wishes to crystallise benefits immediately after the pension transfer or 
pension conversion; and
(2) the retail client is at normal retirement age under the rules of the ceding scheme.
COBS 19.1.8
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
COBS 19.1.9
If a firm proposes to advise a retail client not to proceed with a pension transfer, pension 
conversion or pension opt-out, it should give that advice in writing.
COBS 9.2.1 
(1) A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.5 
A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by its clients unless it is aware that the 
information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.The regulator placed important general obligations on businesses laid out in the over-riding 
principles which regulated businesses had to adhere to. I consider the following to be of 
particular relevance here:
PRIN2 - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN7 - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
PRIN8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers 
and between a customer and another client.
Within his complaint submissions Mr F has stated that there are errors and omissions within 
the suitability letter provided by Onvestor which should render the advice unsuitable. Mr F 
has also stated that these errors led him to conclude the advice given was not as relevant as 
the information provided by Firm B.
Onvestor have accepted that the Pension Transfer Report (TVAS) was not included within 
the appendices of the suitability letter as it should have been. However, they stated that they 
did not consider this to be a material issue as the key information from the TVAS was 
included within the body of the suitability letter itself. Our investigator agreed with this 
stance.
I too believe the key information from the TVAS report was included within the suitability 
letter. Mr F has stated that had this document been provided it would have raised concerns 
about the transfer and would ultimately have led him to retain his OPS benefits. It is 
impossible for me to know what exactly would have happened had Mr F been provided with 
this additional documentation and as such I have to base my decision on what I consider to 
be most likely given the evidence on file. 
The TVAS report is used to compare the benefits provided by an OPS scheme with those 
likely to be provided by the funds should they be transferred. This can be a useful tool in 
establishing if a transfer should be recommended, however it becomes less relevant the 
closer to retirement a consumer is. Given that the key information from the TVAS was 
summarised in the suitability letter itself, I do not believe there is sufficient evidence to 
suggest that the provision of this document would have led to Mr F taking a different course 
of action regarding his OPS benefits. All of the material figures were included within the 
suitability letter and I do not consider it reasonable to conclude that Mr F being provided with 
the same figures for a second time would have changed his decision to transfer.
As an additional point to note, as per COBS 19.1.2A above, if the consumer intends to 
immediately take pension benefits then the TVAS does not need to be completed at all. The 
advice file in this case confirms that early retirement due to ill health was a priority with 
almost immediate access to the funds  whether transferred on not  was likely.
I have additionally considered Mr Fs noted concerns about the tax implications of the 
transfer with the suitability letter documenting a possible 55% tax charge rather than the 
25% charge levied should benefits over the lifetime allowance be taken as income. Mr F 
again stated that the inaccuracy contributed to his overall opinion that the report lacked 
importance. However, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator; if Mr F was 
willing to transfer and potentially incur a 55% tax charge, I do not believe being informed that 
a lower tax charge of 25% applied would have led to a different decision.Onvestor had no direct contact with Mr F before the advice was given, with the advice itself 
based on the information provided to them via Firm B. Mr F has stated that this, alongside 
the fact that the report was provided in writing with any verbal discussion around it left to 
Firm B, also contributed to his lack of faith in the report and advice given.
COBS 9.2.1 required Onvestor to gather all the information required in order to ensure its 
advice was suitable. The regulation does not require a business gather this information for 
itself and as such I see no issue with Onvestor basing its advice on the information provided 
to it by Firm B. The fact that the advice would be based on the information gathered and 
provided by Firm B was documented in the client agreement signed by Mr F before the 
advice was given, and repeated in the suitability letter itself. COBS 9.2.5 confirms that a 
business is entitled to rely on the information it has been provided by a consumer unless it is 
aware the information is inaccurate or out of date. In this case the fact find was signed by 
Mr F to confirm the accuracy of the information contained within it, with the document also 
dated to confirm it was recent and remained relevant.
The report includes both the advantages and disadvantages of the advice to retain the OPS 
benefits. This is entirely usual and exactly what I would expect to see in a situation such as 
this, with the inclusion of both advantages and disadvantages required by COBS 19.1.8. I 
have fully considered Mr Fs points stating that the report overly focussed on the financial 
strength of his employer when this was largely irrelevant given Mr Fs imminent retirement 
and the provisions provided by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). 
Whilst the report does note the financial strength of Mr Fs employer as a disadvantage of 
retaining the OPS benefits, I do not consider this to be misleading. The report itself should 
be read as a whole rather than individual bullet points or paragraphs being focussed upon. In 
this case I do not believe there can be any doubt that Onvestors advice was to retain the 
OPS benefits on the basis that they best met Mr Fs retirement needs - with a transfer likely 
to lead to Mr F being financially worse off in retirement.
Mr F has also stated that any discussion around the suitability report and its content was 
between himself and Firm B, with Onvestor not taking any steps to ensure the report had 
been received or confirm his understanding of it. I have carefully considered Mr Fs point that 
this allowed Firm B to downplay the importance of Onvestors advice however I do not 
believe Onvestor can be held accountable for this in this case.
Whilst elements of the report are complex in nature, the overriding message within the report 
is relatively straightforward and repeated several times  the advice was to retain the OPS 
and not transfer. At the time the report was received, Mr F was aware Firm B were not 
authorised or regulated to provide such advice  hence Onvestors involvement in the first 
place  however Mr F chose to follow Firm Bs advice rather than that which had been 
provided by the business fully regulated in that area  Onvestor. I do not consider it 
reasonable to hold Onvestor responsible for Mr Fs decision.
Mr F has stated that the financial importance of the decision to transfer was very significant 
and that errors in, and omissions from, the report gave an overall impression that the report 
itself was not important. I would however argue that given the importance of the decision to 
transfer, any errors within the report or any concerns that that the advice process did not 
meet the standards Mr F expected should have prompted Mr F to postpone the transfer to 
allow further questions to be asked or further advice to be sought.
Onvestor provided the advice which they had been asked to provide, in line with the client 
agreement signed by Mr F. Whilst no follow up discussions were held between Mr F and 
Onvestor, the report also made clear that he should contact them if he had any questions.Overall, I consider the process followed by Onvestor in giving the advice to Mr F was in line 
with the regulation in place at the time. I also consider it in line with the wider principles 
businesses are expected to adhere to. 
Onvestor made it clear to Mr F how they would provide their advice and what information 
they would be relying upon in order to ensure the advice was suitable. Whilst Mr F has noted 
some areas within the report which could have been better, overall, I consider it clear, fair 
and not misleading with the advice to retain the OPS benefits repeated several times. It is 
also clear from the client agreement that Onvestor had no vested interest in manipulating the 
advice process to achieve any one outcome over another, with their fee the same regardless 
of Mr Fs actions.
As such I am not upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
As per my commentary above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman