DRN-3541328
The complaint
Mr B complains about the actions taken by Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) during his time 
of financial difficulty as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr B and Barclays. I wont what is already 
known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the 
outcome I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe Barclays have done enough to put things right.
 
I understand Mr B has raised a number of complaint points which Ive carefully considered. 
However in this decision I will be addressing what I consider to be the key outstanding 
issues. No discourtesy is intended by this. This reflects the nature of our service as an 
informal alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Support during financial difficulty 
Mr B complains Barclays didnt act fairly during his time of financial difficulty.
Barclays applied the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance to businesses which 
outlined the immediate and temporary support to be provided to those negatively impacted 
by the pandemic. Mr Bs financial circumstances had been negatively impacted by the 
pandemic so it was clear the guidance applied to him. As I would expect, Barclays agreed to 
a three month payment deferral starting from May 2020 so Im satisfied they acted fairly and 
in line with the guidance. 
The FCAs guidance was updated in July 2020 and in brief it said if consumers were still in 
financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic, businesses could grant a further three month 
payment deferral unless it was obviously not in the consumers interest to do so. 
Based on what Mr B said about his financial circumstances, Barclays didnt believe a further 
three month deferral was appropriate. They felt his financial difficulties would be a long term 
issue and it was unlikely he would be able to resume paying the contractual payments once 
the payment deferral or any extension ended. Barclays has explained rather than letting the 
debt increase and the associated interest grow, meaning Mr B would end up paying more 
overall, they felt it would be best to offer alternative long-term support. In this case, they 
advised Mr B to contact debt charities and they placed the account on a 30 day hold in order 
for him to do so, they also suspended the interest during that time. 
Mr B sent a letter to Barclays outlining his offer of repayment of £300 following his 
communication with a debt charity. This was sent in August 2020 during the 30 day hold and 
Mr B chased Barclays for acknowledgement of receipt but he was advised it hadnt been 
received. I can understand this wouldve been frustrating for Mr B as he had followed 
Barclays advice and he made a number of calls to check they had it. 
It was later discovered the letter had indeed been received but not actioned or responded to. 
This led to delays. Mr B was told he could have a ramp up payment plan but shortly 
afterwards Barclays said this wouldnt be possible. It wasnt until November 2020, Barclays 
agreed to a three month payment plan of £364.. Thereafter Barclays set up a second 
payment plan before agreeing to end the agreement and start a new one based on what Mr 
B could afford. 
Based on the information and evidence Ive seen, I accept there have been some failings by 
Barclays in the service theyve provided to Mr B, I note the payment plan in November 2020 
was set up a few months after his initial contact concerning the end of the payment deferral. 
I appreciate this wouldve caused upset and worry during what was already a difficult time. 
However Im satisfied Barclays agreed to a number of supportive measures to assist him. 
That includes a three month payment deferral, a 30 day hold with suspended interest, 
repayment plans and a new loan at a lower contractual amount. I note Mr B never returned 
to paying the contractual payments which supports Barclays argument that his financial 
difficulties were a long term issue. For that reason I cant say they acted unfairly by not 
agreeing to a second three month payment deferral. Based on what Ive seen, the support 
Barclays offered was more favourable than a payment deferral extension and the support 
given was based on Mr Bs financial circumstances. 
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in providing support to Mr B during 
his time of financial difficulty.
Reporting to credit reference agency (CRAs)
Mr B is unhappy Barclays have recorded adverse information to credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). 
I wish to stress Barclays has an obligation to report fair and accurate information to CRAs. 
Based on evidence Ive seen, theyve reported arrears from September 2020 up to May 
2021 which is when this agreement ended and the new one started. 
Based on the FCAs guidance, any payments subject to the payment deferral shouldnt be 
recorded on an individuals credit file. In this case Barclays hasnt reported any adverse 
information while the payment deferral was in place between May and July 2020. Mr B said 
Augusts payment was met and having looked at the evidence, no adverse information was 
reported for that month.  
When reviewing this complaint, Ive referred to the Information Commissioners Offices 
guidance on the Principles for the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit 
reference agencies. This is industry wide guidance about the information financial 
businesses report on an individuals credit file so I believe its reasonable to take it into 
consideration when reviewing this case. 
In part, it says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed 
amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, 
which may result in the lender taking some form of action.
This means for each month where the contractual payments of an agreement arent met, a 
financial business may report this to the CRAs. Here, as Mr B was unable to pay the  
contractual payments of £444 from September 2020 onwards, this has been reported by 
Barclays. Theyve also reported the account being in an arrangement to pay from December 
2020 onwards once they agreed to the repayment plans. I must stress even with such 
repayment plans in place, this doesnt necessarily stop adverse information from reporting to 
the CRAs. 
Having read Barclays contact notes, it suggests Mr B was advised that by making reduced 
payments, his credit file would be impacted. This is also reiterated in their correspondence 
relating to the arrears and confirmation of payment plans as it says Information regarding 
the conduct of your account will be sent to credit reference agencies, this may affect your 
ability to obtain credit. On this basis, Im satisfied Mr B was told his credit file would be 
impacted although I accept perhaps Barclays couldve been more clear as to how this would 
be recorded.
While I accept Barclays didnt respond to Mr Bs letter in August 2020 and a three month 
repayment plan wasnt set up until November 2020, as he wasnt in the position to pay the 
contractual payments, Barclays acted fairly by reported adverse information to the CRAs. 
For the reasons explained above, even if Barclays had agreed to the offer of repayment of 
£300 in August 2020, as this wasnt the full contractual amount, its most likely Barclays 
wouldve still reported this is the CRAs. Taking the above into account, I find Barclays 
reported fair and accurate information about how the account was being managed.  
Ive thought about Mr Bs comments that he received arrears communication despite being 
in agreed payment plans. I recognise this wouldve been upsetting and perhaps confusing 
for him. However I cant agree they were threatening in nature as hes suggested. Financial 
businesses have a legal obligation to let consumers know if the account is arrears so I cant 
say Barclays did anything wrong by sending such correspondence but it wouldve been 
beneficial for Barclays to have explained that to Mr B to avoid any further worry. 
Other issues
Barclays accept there were failings in relation to the level of service they provided to Mr B. 
This includes incorrectly saying he could have a ramp up payment plan and failing to 
respond to his letter sent in August 2020. For this, theyve paid £250 compensation. Having 
carefully thought about what Mr B has said was the impact of such failings, I consider this to 
be a fair resolution so I wont be asking Barclays to pay any more. 
Taking everything into account, I believe Barclays acted fairly and reasonably to support Mr 
B during his time of financial difficulty. I also find theyve recorded fair and accurate 
information to the CRAs regarding the management of this account. Barclays accept there 
were service failings but Im persuaded theyve done enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman