DRN-2833573
The complaint
Miss M complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) turned down 
her claim on a life assurance policy following the death of her partner. 
Miss M is represented by a family member but, for ease, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Miss M. 
What happened
Miss M and Mr N completed an application for a joint decreasing term life assurance policy, 
which was attached to their mortgage, on 18 March 2018. The policy started on 
29 March 2018. The policy was taken out online through an independent financial advisor 
(IFA) and the sum assured was £150,000.  
Mr N unfortunately passed away in December 2019, so Miss M submitted a claim to L&G. 
This was declined and the policy was cancelled from when it started. L&G said this was 
because it obtained Mr Ns medical information and could see Mr N answered two questions 
asked at the application stage incorrectly. These were: 
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much? You may ignore being told this on 
one occasion, provided it was before the age of 25. 
Have you ever received treatment or counselling for any type of mental illness, anorexia or 
bulimia?
L&G said Mr N was seen by his doctor in February 2018 and was reported to be suffering 
from anxiety and was drinking alcohol to try and manage this. So it said these two questions 
should have been answered differently. It said if it had known Mr Ns actual medical history, 
it would not have offered him a policy. L&G offered to either refund the premiums paid or to 
allow Miss M to use the premiums paid to obtain life assurance in her own name. 
Miss M was unhappy and complained to L&G. It responded in June 2020 and reiterated what 
it said about Mr N seeing his doctor in February 2018. It also said Mr Ns medical records 
suggest he was drinking somewhere between a few beers and two bottles of wine a night. It 
said Mr N was referred to his local community mental health team. L&G also said Mr N was 
seen a few days later by his doctor, who noted that he was motivated to stop drinking prior to 
his mental health appointment. His doctor also provided him with advice about abstaining 
from alcohol. There were then two further appointments with a doctor, where his anxiety and 
use of alcohol were discussed and one appointment with the community mental health team. 
Blood tests were arranged by the community mental health team, due to Mr Ns alcohol 
dependence, and these were carried out prior to the policy start date.
Miss M was unhappy with L&Gs response and complained to this service. She said the 
question on the application form about alcohol use also said you may ignore being told this 
on one occasion provided it was before the age of 25. And Miss M said Mr N was under the 
age of 25 years when he completed the application. She also said Mr N referred himself to 
his doctor because of the stress he was experiencing. Miss M said he was drinking more 
than usual as a result and asked the doctor to put him in contact with mental health services.  
She said Mr Ns stress was related to work and to them buying their home and wasnt 
anything to do with having a mental disorder. Miss M said he took some time off work and 
was fine when he returned. Miss M said Mr N was never diagnosed with a mental illness. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He said clear questions were asked of 
Mr N at the application stage and the medical records suggest Mr N should have answered 
yes to the questions highlighted by L&G. Our investigator said the underwriting criteria 
shows L&G would not have provided cover for Mr N if he had disclosed the amount of 
alcohol he was drinking. Our investigator said L&G acted reasonably when it cancelled the 
policy, turned down the claim and refunded the premiums. 
Miss M responded to our investigators assessment. She said there was a single event prior 
to the insurance being taken out where Mr N drank more than usual due to personal and 
work situations going on in his life at the time. She said Mr N was deemed fit for work on 
several occasions and was never diagnosed with having a drink problem or mental illness. 
Miss M said that in a typical week Mr N drank around five glasses of wine. 
As Miss M was unhappy with our investigators assessment, this came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2021, as I had been provided with additional 
information by L&G that wasnt available to the investigator. I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint, as I thought L&G acted fairly when it said Mr N made 
misrepresentations in relation to the referral made for him to his local community mental 
health team and a blood test that was carried out just a few days before the policy 
application was made. I said I thought if L&G had known why the blood test had been carried 
out, then it wouldnt have offered Mr N a policy. And so it acted fairly when it cancelled the 
policy and declined to consider Miss Ms claim. I gave both parties the opportunity to 
respond. 
L&G responded, agreed with the outcome and didnt have any further comments to make. 
Miss M initially responded and asked to be given more time to gather information. Miss M 
was given an additional month to gather and provide the information, but she didnt provide 
any additional information or comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to offer my condolences to Miss M during what must be a very difficult time 
for her and her family. 
And before I address the complaint, I want to explain that I am just looking at L&Gs actions 
in relation to it declining the claim and voiding the policy. I am not looking at the actions of 
the IFA. If Miss M wants to pursue a complaint against the IFA, then this would need to be 
done separately. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Mr N cannot be expected to provide information that he wasnt asked for, so I need to be 
satisfied that the relevant questions were clear and unambiguous. And, having read the 
application documents, Im satisfied that the questions were phrased clearly enough that a 
reasonable consumer should have known what information was being requested. 
I know that Miss M has said the application form was completed by an IFA. And this means I 
dont know for sure, because I wasnt there, how the questions were put to Miss M and Mr N. 
But Miss M hasnt said the IFA submitted incorrect information or asked different questions. 
And so Im satisfied the IFA is likely to have provided the same information to L&G that was 
provided to them. 
Ive looked at Mr Ns medical records and while Im satisfied that he made some 
misrepresentations, I dont agree with all of what was suggested by L&G. 
L&G said Mr N answered the following question incorrectly:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much? You may ignore being told this on 
one occasion, provided it was before the age of 25. 
L&G said there were two occasions when Mr N was given advice by his doctor to reduce his 
alcohol intake and so it said he should have disclosed this. But Im satisfied there was only 
one occasion, and that Mr N didnt need to disclose this one occasion as he was under the 
age of 25 when the advice was given. 
I say this because I can see from Mr Ns records that he went to see his doctor in 
February 2018 and his use of alcohol was discussed. He was advised to try and manage his 
use of alcohol over the weekend, when he was due to go away with friends. So Im satisfied 
that this is an occasion when he was told by his doctor that he should reduce the amount of 
alcohol he was drinking. 
L&G said there was a second occasion when Mr N was told that he should reduce the
amount of alcohol he drinks, which was three days later. However, I dont agree that this 
appointment with his doctor amounts to a second occasion when he was told he should 
reduce the amount of alcohol he drinks. I say this because the conversation Mr N had with 
his doctor during this appointment was, to my mind, a continuation of the conversation they 
had three days earlier. The doctor checked on how Mr N had managed his drinking while he 
was away with friends and reiterated what was said during the earlier appointment. So I think 
this falls short of the doctor telling him, on a second occasion, to reduce the amount of 
alcohol he drinks. I think its reasonable to say that a second occasion would be distinct and 
separate to the first occasion.
So, given that Mr N was under the age of 25 when he submitted the application and so could 
put aside one occasion when he was advised to reduce the amount of alcohol he drank, I 
dont think he needed to answer yes to the question above. When I contacted L&G about 
this point, it agreed that Mr N did not need to tell it about the advice he received to reduce 
his alcohol consumption. 
I then looked at whether Mr N answered the following question incorrectly:Have you ever received treatment or counselling for any type of mental illness, anorexia or 
bulimia?
And Im satisfied that this was answered incorrectly. I say that because I can see from 
Mr Ns medical records that he was referred to his local community mental health team in 
February / March 2018, when he told his doctor he was suffering from anxiety and stress. 
Mr N had his first appointment shortly after. So Mr N should have said yes to that question. 
When I contacted L&G to discuss what impact this might have had on the policy, if it had 
known about Mr Ns contact with the mental health team, it said its underwriter explained 
that there is no reason to believe it would have requested any medical evidence or asked 
Mr N for any more information in respect of just the anxiety. So theres nothing to suggest 
that if Mr N disclosed his contact with the mental health team that this would have affected 
the cover L&G were willing to offer. 
On one of the occasions that I contacted L&G it said, in addition to the two questions it 
already said Mr N answered incorrectly, he also answered the following question incorrectly:
Apart from anything youve already told us about, during the last 2 years have you: had a 
blood test, biopsy, scan or any form of heart investigations?
 
Having seen Mr Ns medical records, Im satisfied he answered this question incorrectly. I 
can see that the community psychiatric nurse at the community mental health team arranged 
for Mr N to undertake a blood test on 16 March 2018. And the purpose of this test was to 
check Mr Ns liver function, which was because he had disclosed that he had recently begun 
drinking more alcohol than usual. So Im satisfied that when he completed the application on 
18 March 2018, Mr N should reasonably have disclosed that he had undertaken a blood test 
and so a misrepresentation was made. So what Ive looked at next is whether L&G would 
have offered different terms to Mr N if it had known he had recently taken a blood test and 
the results were outstanding.   
Again, I contacted L&G for more information. It said if Mr N had disclosed the blood test, 
which was outstanding at the time of the application, then it would have asked him additional 
questions about the test. These were: 
please tell us the condition or symptoms which prompted these investigations, the type of 
investigations, results of investigations so far and any time you have had off work?
And L&G said it would have expected these additional questions to tell it about why Mr N 
had the blood test carried out and it said it wouldnt have assessed the application without 
this information. 
Im satisfied that the answers to the above questions would have shown L&G that Mr N had 
a liver function test carried out because of concerns about the amount of alcohol he was 
drinking at around the time he took out the policy. The answers would also have let L&G 
know that Mr N had recently taken time off work and that the outcome of the test was 
negative. Mr N didnt have a specific condition or set of symptoms to disclose to L&G. And 
L&G has said that, if Mr N wasnt able to provide answers to all of the questions, it would 
have either declined the policy or requested a medical report, as it wouldnt have assessed 
the application without all of the information it required about the blood test. 
L&G said if its underwriter had decided to obtain a medical report at this point, then Mr Ns 
recent use of alcohol would have come to light and it would not have offered him a policy. 
Having seen the underwriting information provided, I can see that this is the case. Im 
satisfied any medical report would have shown that Mr N had spoken to his doctor about the recent increase in his alcohol consumption, had been given advice to cut down on the 
amount he drinks, had disclosed drinking between a few beers to two bottles of wine a 
night and that he had been referred to the community mental health team because of both 
anxiety and his alcohol use. 
I understand that what Mr N was drinking at the time he took out the policy might not have 
been what he typically drank. But, if L&G had gone down the route of requesting a medical 
report, then the above is the information it would have been provided with about Mr Ns 
drinking habits and so it would have been allowed to rely on it. 
While I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss Ms situation and I know that my decision 
will disappoint her, Im satisfied L&G acted fairly when it said Mr N made a 
misrepresentation in relation to the referral to the community mental health team and the 
blood test that was carried out just a few days before the policy application was made. 
And Im satisfied that if L&G had known the full circumstances of why the blood test was 
requested, then it wouldnt have offered Mr N a policy. And this means it does not need 
to consider Miss Ms claim under the policy. 
Under CIDRA L&G is entitled to cancel the policy from the start date and keep the 
premiums paid. But I can see it has returned the premiums and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances and it does not need to take any further action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman