DRN-3487350
The complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on a
corporate private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H became a member of a Solutions group private medical insurance policy on 1
September 2020.
In March 2021, Miss H made a claim for the costs of treating an anal fissure. On the claim
form, Miss Hs GP noted that shed sought help for her symptoms of painful rectal bleeding
in August 2020, after self-caring for six months. Shed been referred to a consultant
specialist who Ill call Mr W and in November 2020, shed been diagnosed with internal
haemorrhoids. However, Miss H experienced anal pain and was seen by Mr W again in
December 2020. At this point, an anal fissure had been diagnosed.
Aviva turned down Miss Hs claim. It said her policy had been underwritten on a moratorium
basis. This meant that it wouldnt cover claims for which, amongst other things, a
policyholder had experienced symptoms within the five years before the policy start date. As
the available evidence showed Miss H had suffered from rectal pain and bleeding around
seven months before the policy started, it said the claim was caught by the moratorium.
Miss H was unhappy with Avivas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. She
considered the medical evidence provided by two consultant-surgeons  Mr W whom Miss H
had seen in November and December 2020 and a specialist Ill call Miss B, whose opinion
shed subsequently sought.
She noted that in November 2020, Mr W had conducted a rigid sigmoidoscopy. Hed
originally stated he wasnt certain whether Miss Hs symptoms were caused by
haemorrhoids or a healed fissure. And hed recommended a flexible sigmoidoscopy to
investigate the cause of Miss Hs pain further. But in December 2020, hed identified an
external anal fissure and accordingly prescribed treatment for it. Hed also recommended
that Miss Hs proposed flexible sigmoidoscopy should be paused until the fissure had
healed. The investigator thought hed have been unlikely to have recommended the flexible
sigmoidoscopy in November 2020 had a fissure been present. And she noted that Miss B
had stated that haemorrhoids and fissures were entirely separate pathologies. So she felt it
was most likely that Miss Hs fissure wasnt the cause of the symptoms shed experienced
before the policy began. She therefore recommended that Aviva should pay Miss Hs claim,
together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple.
Aviva disagreed.
I asked Miss H if she could provide further medical evidence from Miss B  in particular,
whether the symptoms of haemorrhoids and anal fissure could be distinguished from each
other. Miss B provided a further letter in support of Miss Hs claim which Ill further refer to
below. Our investigator asked for Avivas comments on the new evidence. It referred to Mr
Ws letter of November 2020 which stated that Miss H had been suffering from pain (which
Miss B advised was a symptom of a fissure). So it maintained that Miss H had been suffering
with pain in the five years before the policy began and as such, the claim was still caught by
the moratorium.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Miss Hs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Miss Hs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Aviva treated
her fairly.
First, Ive considered the terms of Miss Hs policy, as this forms the basis of her contract with
Aviva. I can see from the membership certificate that Miss Hs policy was provided on a
moratorium basis. As I set out above, this meant that Aviva wouldnt cover any medical
conditions Miss H had had in the five years before she took out the policy, until shed been a
policyholder for two years and had two years in a row where a condition had been trouble-
free.
Page 27 of the policy refers to moratorium underwriting. It says:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if the
member had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before they joined the policy.
Avivas defined what it means by a pre-existing medical condition. The policy says this is:
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
 the member has received medication, advice, or treatment; or
 the member has experienced symptoms; whether the condition has been diagnosed or not
before the member joined the policy.
Miss Hs complaint is about Avivas refusal to pay her claim for costs associated with anal
fissure, because it considers she was experiencing symptoms of that condition during the
five years before she took out the policy in September 2020. So Ive carefully considered the
available medical evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for Aviva to draw.
Ive looked closely at the claim form completed by Miss H and her GP, together with the
letters Mr W wrote in November and December 2020. The claim form stated that Miss H had
experienced painful rectal bleeding since March 2020. And that shed therefore been
referred to Mr W in August 2020. Mr W met with Miss H in November 2020 and referred to
the symptoms Miss H had previously presented with. He stated that there was no evidence
of a fissure. And he carried out a rigid sigmoidoscopy which found haemorrhoids. He also
said: It is unclear whether her symptoms are due to haemorrhoids or a healed fissure. Dr W
proposed to see Miss H for a review four months later.
Dr W saw Miss H earlier than planned in December 2020, as she was suffering anal pain. At
this point, he stated: On external examination she clearly has an anterior fissure with nosuspicious features. At this point, Dr W prescribed Miss H with treatment specific to her
fissure.
Given Miss Hs GP stated that her symptoms had presented around seven months before
the policy began and shed been referred to a specialist prior to the policy start date, I can
understand why at this time, Aviva considered the condition to fall within its definition of a
pre-existing condition. And Im also mindful that Dr W didnt indicate that Miss Hs pain and
symptoms werent linked to her first diagnosis of haemorrhoids. So I dont think it was unfair
for Aviva to turn down Miss Hs claim at this point, especially given anal pain can be a
symptom of anal fissure. However, Miss H has since provided me with new medical
evidence from Miss B, in support of her claim.
Miss Bs first letter, dated 14 October 2021, states:
(Miss H) has two separate pathologies in the anal canal. The first is haemorrhoids which
she has had since March 2020 however she was subsequently diagnosed with an anal
fissure which was first identified in December 2020. I do not think the two pathologies are
related.
Miss B provided a second letter, dated 9 March 2022, in response to a specific request from
me as to whether the symptoms of haemorrhoids and fissure could be distinguished. She
said:
Although it is impossible to tell 100% whether the symptoms are distinguishable between
haemorrhoids and a fissure, generally speaking an anal fissure causes very significant pain
which is quite different to haemorrhoids.
I hope that this therefore clarifies that I am as certain as I can be that the significant pains
she presented with in December were related to a new pathology and that was a fissure
rather than haemorrhoids.
Aviva has referred to the fact that Mr W stated Miss H was suffering from pain in his letter of
November 2020 and that as this can be a symptom of a fissure (as Miss B acknowledges),
the claim remains caught by the exclusion. Ive thought carefully about this. Miss H says that
the pain she experienced in December 2020 was different to the pain she experienced with
haemorrhoids. Mr Ws letters of November 2020 and December 2020 state that Miss H was
suffering pain upon sitting and rectal pain. So I acknowledge that Miss H did seem to be
suffering from pain on both occasions. However, in November 2020, Mr W didnt find
evidence of an external fissure. In December 2020, he said that Miss H clearly had an
anterior external fissure and accordingly prescribed treatment.
Ive placed significant weight on the evidence of Miss B and Mr W. Thats because theyd
both had the opportunity to examine Miss H at first hand and carry out investigations into the
causes of her symptoms. Both doctors are specialists in their fields. They both independently
appear to have reached the conclusion that Miss H was suffering from a fissure in December
2020. Theres no clinical indication from either specialist that this diagnosis was linked to her
initial haemorrhoids. It seems unlikely Mr W wouldve recommended a flexible
sigmoidoscopy in November 2020 had a fissure been found, given his suggestion in
December 2020 that it might be paused if necessary until the fissure healed. And Miss B has
clearly set out that she believes the pain associated with the two conditions is quite different.
Shes stated that in her view, the pain Miss H presented with in December was caused by
the new fissure rather than the haemorrhoids.
In my view then, this is persuasive medical evidence that the symptoms Miss H experienced
prior to inception of the policy were down to haemorrhoids and not fissure. And so onbalance, I currently find that its the available evidence shows its most likely that the pain
Miss H experienced in December 2020 was a new symptom which didnt pre-date the policy
start date. Therefore, I dont think its now fair for Aviva to treat Miss Hs fissure as a pre-
existing condition.
As such then, I currently think the fair outcome would be for Aviva to now reassess Miss Hs
claim for the costs associated with her anal fissure, as Im not presently persuaded that this
is linked to the symptoms which existed prior to the start of the policy. It would be for Miss H
to provide evidence in support of her claim and to demonstrate which of her costs were
associated with anal fissure and relevant investigations and treatment into that condition.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Aviva acknowledged itd received my provisional decision but didnt provide any additional 
comments or evidence.
Miss H accepted my provisional findings. She told us about the treatment shed received 
since the claim had been declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional substantive evidence or information, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. 
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to reassess Miss Hs claim for the medical costs
associated with her anal fissure, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman