DRN-4247443
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her motor 
insurance claim.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents.
 
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs S made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Advantage after 
her car was damaged in an accident. Advantage deemed Mrs Ss car a total loss. It made 
her a final cash settlement offer of £6,500 (less the policy excess), noting that Mrs S wanted 
to keep the car. 
A couple of weeks later Mrs S raised a complaint with Advantage. She hadnt received the 
cash settlement shed been promised. Shed also found out that her car had been sold, 
despite her asking to retain it. Mrs S said a buyer had offered her £3,000 for the damaged 
vehicle. She also raised concerns about difficulties getting through to Advantage on the 
phone and it not responding to her emails. Mrs S said shed had to borrow cars from friends 
and had paid around £420 to insure them.
Advantage said Mrs S hadnt confirmed that she wanted to retain her vehicle until after it had 
been sold. It apologised for delaying Mrs Ss payment for a few weeks because it had 
recorded her banks sort code incorrectly. It paid her £100 to compensate her for the delay in 
issuing the payment and some other customer service issues.
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. In the meantime, 
Advantage said it would like to offer Mrs S a further £350 compensation. It acknowledged 
that Mrs S had made her intentions regarding retention of the vehicle clear before it had 
been sold. It said it had failed to safeguard her vehicle and accepted there was a loss of 
expectation. 
Our investigator put Advantages offer to Mrs S but she didnt think this was enough to put 
things right. She said Advantages letter clearly stated that it had already deducted the 
amount it would have received from selling the car to the salvage company. She said she 
was still at a loss of £3,000 plus more for having to hire cars whilst the matter remained 
unresolved.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought the compensation 
Advantage had offered Mrs S for distress and inconvenience was sufficient. But she didnt 
think the cash settlement Advantage had paid Mrs S was fair because it seemed to have 
deducted an amount for salvage, when Mrs S didnt retain the car. Our investigator 
recommended Advantage pay Mrs S £902.50 (plus interest) to make up the shortfall from 
the market value of the vehicle. 
Advantage didnt respond to our investigators outcome. So, Mrs Ss complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The policy terms say that if a policyholders car is damaged because of an accident, 
Advantage will do one of the following:
Pay for any necessary repairs
Replace your Car
Repair the damage
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss
Market Value is defined as: The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the 
time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. 
This may not necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value and will 
make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the 
circumstances in which you bought it.
The terms also say:
As soon as a Total Loss settlement is agreed and paid by your Insurer, your Insurer is 
entitled to take possession and ownership of your Car and any salvage shall become your 
Insurers property.
However, Advantage has acknowledged that it already sold the car before agreeing and 
paying the settlement to Mrs S. Moreover, the settlement was agreed on the basis of Mrs S 
retaining the car. 
Advantages email confirming the final settlement of £6,055 would be paid to Mrs S says:
After our engineers valued your vehicle at £6500.00, we deducted £445 for your excess.
As youre keeping your car, weve deducted the amount we would have received from selling 
your car to a salvage company.
So, Advantage doesnt appear to have paid Mrs S the full market value of her vehicle, even 
though it wasnt returned to her.
Advantage has provided screenshots of two industry trade guides which show valuations of 
£7,251 and £7,480. Our investigator calculated the market value of the vehicle to be 
£7,402.50 using an average of four trade guides. So, I think it would be fair for Advantage to 
pay Mrs S £902.50 to make up the shortfall in the settlement. It should also add interest at 
8% simple per year to compensate her for the time she was deprived of the money.
I appreciate Mrs S feels she has lost out on £3,000 because her friend offered to buy the 
damaged car from her for that amount. However, her friends email says he verbally agreed 
to purchase the car for £3,000 after seeing photographs of the damage. This was after offering Mrs S £5,000 for the car shortly before the accident. Advantage engineers report 
suggests the cost of repairs would be more than the market value of the car. So, I think its 
unlikely Mrs Ss friend would have paid her £3,000 for it once hed had the opportunity to 
inspect the damage. 
Mrs S has also complained that she needed to purchase short term insurance to drive 
friends cars. I appreciate Mrs Ss settlement payment was delayed by a few weeks. 
However, I havent seen evidence of the £450 Mrs S says she had to pay or anything to 
show me that this was a necessary cost she incurred as a result of a delay in receiving 
Advantages payment. 
Advantage has already paid Mrs S £100 to compensate her for poor customer service and 
its offered her a further £350. I think this fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced from not being able to retain the car as shed hoped. So, I think 
Advantage should pay Mrs S the £350 its offered if she accepts my decision.
Putting things right
Advantage should:
Pay Mrs S £902.50 to make up for the shortfall in the settlement for her vehicle.
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* calculated from the date the cash 
settlement was agreed to the date the payment is made.
Pay Mrs S the additional £350 its offered for distress and inconvenience.
*If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman