DRN-2273213
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service hes received from Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr D applied for a L&G ISA through their website on 27 March 2020. He said their website 
clearly stated the ISA would be opened one business day after the application and a link 
would be sent by email. None of this happened and on 31 March he called L&G but had to 
wait over 90 minutes in order to speak to someone who could deal with his concerns.
He subsequently raised a complaint about the service hed received and asked for the ISA to 
be cancelled and the £20,000 hed invested to be returned. On 2 April L&G let him know 
they were looking into his concerns and said hed receive the refund within 10 working days 
of them verifying theyd received the payment.
Mr D had to chase the status of the refund on 16 April and was told hed receive it by 22 
April. He had to chase again on 23 April and eventually received the refund the following 
day. However, he only received £19,596.83, so he also complained about this point. 
L&G responded to Mr D on 30 April and partially upheld his complaint. They apologised for 
how long he had to wait to speak to someone. And said this was because theyd closed their 
offices due to the pandemic and their agents had to adapt to home working which had 
impacted their service levels. 
They also felt the call could have been handled better - their agent had the opportunity to 
make Mr D aware he could get back less than hed invested but didnt and also wrongly 
implied they may be able to get the money refunded quicker. They apologised for the 
delayed refund and said he should have received it by 22 April. They offered Mr D £150 in 
compensation for the poor service hed received and £17.14 net interest for the delayed 
refund. 
They didnt uphold the complaint point about the refund and explained that it was due to the 
difference in unit prices between when Mr D invested in the ISA and the unit prices when it 
was cancelled. They said they appreciated it's not something Mr D was expecting but 
explained the terms and conditions said that an investor may receive back less than they 
originally invested.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt think that L&G needed to do any more. Mr D didnt  
agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think L&G need to do any more. I will now explain why.
Customer service
L&G have accepted that theyve provided Mr D with a poor level of service. Theyve 
apologised and offered compensation. Therefore, I need to determine if the compensation 
theyve offered is fair. And in deciding this, I need to look at the impact the poor service has 
had on Mr D. 
Ive taken into account the inconvenience Mr D has suffered in trying to cancel his 
investment. Ive noted the time he spent on hold, what he was told when he spoke to L&G 
and the numerous emails he sent chasing the refund. Having done so, I think the £150 L&G 
have offered Mr D is fair compensation. 
Issues with the refund
The first issue is Mr D receiving back less than he invested. I appreciate that Mr D is 
obviously unhappy with this, but the terms which he agreed to when he opened the account 
are quite clear. They say If you decide to cancel the contract, and the value of your 
Investment has fallen at the time we receive your completed cancellation notice, you will not 
receive a full refund. An amount equal to any fall in value will be deducted from the sum 
originally invested. 
L&G have provided evidence to show the unit cost of the investment Mr D made was 53.08p 
when the units were purchased on 30 March. Mr D sent an email at 18:45 on 30 March 
asking for the investment to be cancelled so the units were sold the following day. The unit 
cost when the investment was sold was 52.01p. This difference in unit cost is what has 
resulted in Mr D receiving back less than he originally invested. So, Im satisfied that L&G 
acted correctly in refunding the amount they did. 
The second issue is the delay in refunding Mr Ds money. L&G have admitted that they 
should have refunded the money to Mr D sooner than they did. They completed their 
verification checks on the funds and released the payment back to Mr D on 6 April 2020. He 
should have received the funds back within 10 working days  so by 22 April - but didnt until 
27 April. L&G have offered to compensate Mr D for lost interest caused by the delay at a rate 
of 8% simple which seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, taking everything into account, I think the compensation offered by L&G is fair and 
reasonable and I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Mr D is free to 
accept Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds offer should he now wish to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman