DRN-4240872
The complaint
Mr H complains Newcastle Building Society removed him from the mortgage he held jointly 
with his ex-partner without his authority. And he says they refused to give him information 
about the mortgage, which affected his negotiations with her when he was buying her out.
What happened
Mr H and his ex-partner had a mortgage with Newcastle that was secured over a property 
they owned jointly.
In February 2023 the ex-partners solicitors sent Newcastle a transfer deed (TR1) signed by 
Mr H. Under the terms of the TR1 Mr H agreed to transfer his share of the property to his  
ex-partner and another person in return for a payment of around £4,880 and his release from 
the mortgage.
The solicitors covering letter asked Newcastle to seal and return the TR1 so completion 
could be co-ordinated before the mortgage offer ran out a couple of weeks later. The 
solicitors said theyd let Newcastle know once completion had taken place and the TR1 had 
been dated so they could update their records.
In March 2023 Mr H contacted Newcastle to complain hed been removed from the mortgage 
without his authority. He was unhappy when they failed to give him information about the 
mortgage as hed been removed from it. And he said Newcastles actions had adversely 
affected his negotiations for a higher payment from his ex-partner.
Newcastle acknowledged that if theyd clarified the solicitors letter it might have confirmed 
Mr Hs removal from the mortgage shouldnt have gone ahead at that point. They apologised 
for not providing him with information about the mortgage when he first complained and said 
theyd initially been uncertain about the information they could provide. They offered to 
reinstate him and the terms of the mortgage that had been in place before a new product 
with higher early repayment charges (ERCs) had been processed following the transfer.  
And they offered Mr H £50 compensation for the impact on him of their mistakes.
Mr H didnt accept Newcastles outcome to his complaint. He said their actions had impacted 
his negotiations with his ex-partner for a higher payment; although shed agreed to an 
increased amount of £6,000, it should have been double that; and the £50 compensation 
Newcastle had offered to put things right wasnt enough. Mr H brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt think Newcastle had acted unfairly in removing Mr H from the 
mortgage account or in refusing to provide him with information about the mortgage 
afterwards. And she thought the compensation theyd offered of £50 was fair. Although she 
asked Newcastle if theyd be prepared to increase the compensation, and they agreed to 
offer a higher amount of £150, Mr H didnt accept that. And our investigator confirmed her 
original view still stood.
Since Mr Hs complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Hs difficult personal circumstances and the stressful time hes been 
through. I can understand he was disappointed to be paid less by his ex-partner than he felt 
was fair for his share of the property.
Newcastle acknowledged they could have clarified with the solicitors whether they should 
process the transfer of the mortgage when they received the TR1. But, on balance, I dont 
think they acted unreasonably at the time. The TR1 had been signed by Mr H. On the face of 
it hed agreed a payment of £4,880. Im not aware of any reason why Newcastle should have 
suspected he might want to negotiate a higher payment. It was reasonable for Newcastle to 
think he was happy for the transfer to go ahead on the terms set out. And according to the 
solicitors letter, the mortgage offer was due to expire in a couple of weeks, so it was fair for 
them to act on the TR1 promptly. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Newcastle to go ahead and process the TR1 at the time.
It wasnt unreasonable for Newcastle to hesitate in discussing the mortgage with Mr H when 
he rang initially. Hed been removed from the mortgage and Newcastle had valid concerns 
about sharing information. They looked into things quickly and within a few days theyd 
confirmed the mortgage balance to him. Newcastle sought confirmation from his ex-partners 
solicitors they could reinstate him to the mortgage, and they offered to do so. And once 
theyd got the confirmation theyd requested a few days later, they checked if Mr H wanted to 
go ahead with the reinstatement. But Mr H held off on that while he discussed things with his 
ex-partner.
The exchanges between Mr H and his ex-partner suggest they were both aware the terms of 
the mortgage shouldnt have changed and could be reinstated. But I can see there was 
some confusion about the ERCs that applied. Mr H understood they were lower than his   
ex-partner had been told. And on investigation Newcastle found that a product transfer had 
taken place after theyd processed the TR1 and higher ERCs applied to the new product. 
Newcastles notes suggest they let Mr H and his ex-partner know the product transfer had 
been reversed and that the lower ERCs applied. Its not clear if they were aware of that 
before reaching an agreement. But, on balance, Im not persuaded the ERCs  even if they 
were a factor - affected the outcome of the negotiations on their own. The ex-partners 
concerns were about the risks and overall costs associated with selling the property, losing 
her mortgage offer and what she could afford to pay Mr H with family help. The ERCs, even 
at the higher level, were a limited part of the costs and only one of several factors affecting 
what the ex-partner was prepared to offer Mr H. And Mr H told Newcastle the ERCs had 
become irrelevant since the property wasnt going to be sold. 
Considering everything, it wouldnt be fair to hold Newcastle responsible for the settlement 
figure Mr H was able to negotiate, even if I thought theyd been wrong to process the TR1. 
Even though Newcastle felt they could have interpreted the solicitors letter differently and 
asked for clarification about whether they should process the TR1, it wasnt unreasonable for 
them to act on it. I can understand it was frustrating for Mr H that Newcastle didnt provide 
information about the mortgage straight away, but they had valid reasons for not doing so 
initially. And they offered to reinstate Mr H to the mortgage once they understood his 
situation. Overall, I think Newcastle treated Mr H fairly and that Newcastles apology and 
offer of compensation of £50 were fair compensation for the impact on Mr H of their short 
delay in providing mortgage information.Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr H will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman