DRN-3316135
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt remove missed payment
markers from her credit file as theyd agreed to.
What happened
Ms M has a buy to let mortgage (BTL) with Barclays. In March 2019, Barclays cancelled 
the direct debit to it for the contractual monthly payments, and so Ms M missed two 
payments as a result (in March 2019 and April 2019). The missed payments were 
recorded on her credit file. In February 2021, Ms M complained to Barclays and in April 
2021, they agreed to remove the markers. They were removed in August 2021.
Ms M complained. She said shed asked Barclays on several occasions to take the 
markers off her credit file, but they hadnt. As a result, between May 2019 and when she 
complained to Barclays, she missed out on the purchase of three BTL properties and was 
prevented from remortgaging her main property. Ms M said this was because her broker 
couldnt get any lender to agree to the loans  because of the missed payment markers on 
her credit records. She provided emails from her broker which she said confirms this to be 
the case. Because of this, she had missed out on investment opportunities and had been 
denied income from the BTL properties. She also lost out on the stamp duty exemptions 
that were available at the time. She had also suffered a lot of stress and worry  and had 
spent a lot of time in calling Barclays.
Barclays admitted their original error  it was their fault the direct debit was cancelled when 
it shouldnt have been. And, the markers shouldnt have been put on Ms Ms credit file. They 
accepted she was told at the time they would be removed, but they werent. They 
apologised and offered compensation of £300.
Ms M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator looked into what happened. He 
accepted that the property purchases didnt take place because of the markers on Ms Ms
credit file. He couldnt quantify the losses Ms M had suffered, nor could he award 
compensation for them  as they were too far removed from the error Barclays had made. 
He was also concerned that Ms M didnt come forward with her complaint earlier than she 
did  as shed seen why the mortgage applications had been declined a long time 
beforehand. But  he considered that Barclays hadnt acted fairly and should increase their 
compensation to £900.
Barclays agreed to pay the compensation of £900. But Ms M didnt agree and asked that the
complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. She said the financial impact had been greater.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Considering the evidence Ive seen so far, I currently disagree with our investigator  I 
dont think that the level of compensation of £900 is a reasonable amount for what 
happened and believe the original award of £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to put 
things right. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms M  but its part of our process 
that an ombudsman looks at her complaint afresh and might form a different view, which is 
what Ive done here, and in the circumstances of her complaint.
Its not in dispute that Barclays made an error when they cancelled Ms Ms direct debit in 
2019, and then put two missed payment markers on her credit file  for the months of 
March 2019 and April 2019. Barclays have admitted this was their mistake and said they 
shouldve removed the markers at the time  but they didnt.
And so  the crux of Ms Ms complaint is what happened because of Barclays error. Ms M 
says she missed out on the opportunity to buy three BTL properties and she also wanted to 
remortgage her main home to release cash to invest in property. For us to agree a level of 
compensation for Ms Ms alleged losses, I must be persuaded that they were a direct result 
of Barclays error  and how much those losses were.
Ms Ms mortgage broker has written to us to say that the property purchases fell through 
because he couldnt arrange finance. And that was because of the markers on Ms Ms 
credit file. But in all fairness  thats the only evidence we have to support Ms Ms 
argument. And whilst I think the missed payments on Ms Ms credit file were likely to have 
played a part in any new lending decision, I think its also fair to say that there couldve 
been many other reasons why the finance couldnt be arranged.
When lenders consider an application for a mortgage there are many different factors they 
consider before agreeing to lend. Such as, for example - the lenders appetite to lend on 
BTLs; the loan to value ratio (LTV); the lenders valuation and survey report, and projected 
rental income. And  another purchaser may have offered a higher price which wouldve 
stopped Ms M from buying the property. I also noted the mortgage broker said he didnt 
make any mortgage applications at the time. He says that was because hed had a verbal 
indication that they wouldnt agree the loans because of the markers on Ms Ms credit file. 
But thats all we have  I havent seen any written evidence from lenders that they declined 
to lend, and the reasons for their decision. And we havent seen any calculation of what Ms 
Ms losses might have been. So  Im not persuaded that we can conclude that Ms M lost 
out as a direct result of the markers Barclays had put on her credit file.
Some of Ms Ms arguments relate to further missed opportunities this year  after she 
complained to Barclays. But again, I havent seen conclusive evidence that these were due
to the markers on her credit file  for the same reasons as Ive described.
Our investigator asked Ms M why she didnt flag the issues to Barclays earlier than when 
she first complained in February 2021. She said she had called Barclays during the period 
between March 2019 and September 2020  and they didnt deal with her problem. But 
Ive seen Barclays records for that period  and theres nothing to show she did contact 
them about the issue. There arent any calls, letters, or emails. I also noted that Ms Ms 
broker sent to her a copy of her credit report in October 2019  and this showed the 
missed payment entries. So  I think its reasonable to say that Ms M must have been 
aware of the problem then or should have been. And so  she could then have done 
something about it  but she didnt complain to Barclays until February 2021.
Barclays agreed to remove the markers from Ms Ms credit file in April 2021. Ms M 
showed us her credit report dated July 2021  and the markers were still showing. We 
asked Barclays about this, and they said theyd been slow to deal with their removal but 
said Ms Ms credit file was cleansed in August 2021. In all honesty, it shouldnt have taken 
four months for this to be dealt with  and if that still hasnt been done, I would ask her to 
let me know when responding to this provisional decision.Our investigator considered that an award of £900 was appropriate for what happened. I 
think thats too much in the circumstances of this case, and for the reasons Ive described. 
Our service would normally make an award of up to £300 where there have been 
repeated small errors which needed a reasonable effort to sort out and where theres 
been some distress and disappointment. And I think thats appropriate here  because Im 
not persuaded that Ms M did incur clear and quantified losses as a direct result of 
Barclays error.
I realise that Ms M will be disappointed by my view  because Barclays and our 
investigator agreed to a higher award, but in the circumstances of this case, I think that an 
award of £300 is the right amount.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays agreed, but Ms M didnt. She provided a lot of additional information, which I will 
summarise:
She showed us she had appointments to view three properties: two in May 2020 and 
one in November 2020.
She showed us shed searched online for four properties: three in November 2020 
and one in February 2021.
She provided a further email from her mortgage broker which said they couldnt 
obtain four mortgages for Ms M due to Barclays error. This was because they didnt 
progress applications following initial enquiries and discussions with lenders.
She showed us a letter from her accountants which said she couldnt buy three 
properties. They worked out that lost profit (for two years) was a total of £93,600. 
And shed lost out on stamp duty reductions which would have saved her £37,500.
Ms M provided copies of many calls with Barclays, of which nine were relevant to her 
complaint. Ive listened to them and they cover Barclays error in cancelling the direct 
debit, the missed payments, and the effect on her credit file.
I now need to consider Ms Ms further evidence and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms M has gone to a lot of trouble to provide more evidence. Following the 
provisional decision, we advised Ms M that we would need to be sure that her mortgage 
applications were declined because of the markers on her credit file. And we would need 
clear evidence from the prospective lenders to say that. 
Unfortunately, the further material that Ms M has shown us doesnt provide that. And as I 
said in the provisional decision, lenders take many different things into account when 
deciding whether to lend on a BTL mortgage  a borrowers credit file is one, but there are 
many others. So, we cant say that her applications were declined because of that.
I know that Ms M feels strongly about what happened and has argued her case with us 
consistently. But Im not persuaded that we can conclude that Ms M couldnt obtain 
mortgages because of the markers on her credit file.  My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman