DRN-3346599
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line Car 
Insurance have given him when claiming under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, what I thought about that, and 
how I felt matters should be put right. Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form 
part of this final decision.
On 10 September 2021 Mr Y was unfortunately involved in an accident, and his car was 
deemed a total loss. After some discussions, UKI offered £8,000 in settlement. Mr Y turned 
this down, because he said a truer valuation would have been between £9,000-£12,000.
After a discussion with UKI, Mr Y asked an independent engineer to inspect his car and offer 
up a valuation. That engineer decided a fairer valuation was £10,000. Mr Y said he 
understood UKI would refund the £180 he paid to have his car inspected if it showed a 
higher valuation  so he asked them to refund this and pay the higher valuation. Mr Y also 
had concerns as UKIs engineer decided there was no structural damage, but his engineer 
said there was. He said this affected the salvage value of the car. Finally, Mr Y was also 
concerned about a breach of his privacy, after emails meant for him were sent to a family 
member in error.
The structural damage referred to by the respective engineers affected how much the car 
would be worth if Mr Y kept it. But, my understanding is Mr Y didnt end up taking the car 
back, meaning the differing opinions on the structural damage is no longer relevant. So, I 
wont mention it again.
UKI said theyd carried out an investigation into the value of Mr Ys car, and felt the £8,000 
they ultimately offered was fair taking into account the independent engineers report, so 
they wouldnt be increasing this. They also said they wouldnt be refunding the £180 Mr Y 
had paid for the report, as they didnt think theyd misled him. And although they had sent an 
email in error to Mr Ys family member, didnt think any further action was necessary as no 
information had been provided.
Unhappy with this, Mr Y asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
found UKI had acted fairly, except for the valuation report. He felt UKI hadnt clearly 
explained in what circumstances theyd refund the independent engineers report  so said 
they should do so.
Mr Y agreed UKI should refund the cost of the report. But he disagreed on the valuation 
element, saying our Investigator hadnt properly taken into account evidence sent in showing 
second-hand cars were increasing in value due to a number of factors.
UKI didnt agree they should be required to pay for the independent engineer report. They 
said if this isnt being used to determine the value of the car, then its been decided its not 
correct to rely on what it contains. In those circumstances, its Mr Ys evidence hes providing 
our service to persuade us to change our mind  so dont think they should have to pay for it.
As both parties didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation of the car
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second-hand cars and it isnt the role of our 
service to value Mr Ys car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations UKI used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides  which is what UKI did. These are 
used for valuing second-hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence provided by 
both parties. This might include engineers reports, information provided by dealers and 
adverts, amongst other things.
From what I can see UKI looked at two guides. The first gave a valuation of £8,100, and the 
second £7,725. UKI ended up offering £8,000, which is towards the higher end.
But Mr Y also provided an independent engineers report, valuing the car at £10,000. Hes 
also provided a series of adverts, suggesting the car should be valued higher.
UKI have said theyve noted the independent engineers comments but think £8,000 is a fair 
price. Crucially though, theyve not explained why they dont think the engineers comments 
mean the car is worth more  the only answer given is theyve given the top price based on 
the guides.
So, I arranged to ask for UKIs comments regarding this, amongst a number of other issues 
 and while they did reply, they didnt answer my questions on this point.
Although the guides are generally quite a good indication of a fair price, I think a bespoke 
inspection by an independent engineer is a very persuasive piece of evidence Mr Y has 
obtained. This report has looked at Mr Ys individual car and gave it a value which hasnt 
been directly disputed by UKI. Im more persuaded by this bespoke report, than the general 
motor trade guides which provide likely selling prices for cars.
Taking everything into account, while the trade guides are usually a good indication, I think a 
bespoke independent engineers report mean the valuation should be increased.
As the car was valued at £10,000 by the independent engineer, Ive seen no reason not to 
say it should be valued at this price. My understanding is UKI have paid the £8,000 they felt 
the car was worth  so theyll need to pay the difference. Theyll also need to add 8% 
interest to this difference due to Mr Y being deprived of funds I think he should have had. I 
also think UKI should pay some compensation for this. Theyve seemingly disregarded his 
independent engineers report, by not providing a clear and detailed explanation to him why 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. I think £200 is fair for this aspect.
Cost of the independent engineers reportI can see UKI have said theyd have been prepared to pay this, if itd been proven theyd 
offered a lower value than they should have done.
As Ive now decided they have offered a lower value than they should have, I think its 
reasonable for them to refund this in full. UKI will also need to pay 8% interest on this as 
Mr Y has been deprived of funds they should have refunded previously.
Information sent to Mr Ys family member in error
I also arranged for us to ask further questions about this  as it wasnt clear exactly whatd 
happened.
Mr Y said there were at least two data breaches hes aware of, but UKI didnt offer a 
satisfactory resolution to him.
In contacting UKI regarding this, we asked if they could provide copies of the emails / texts 
that were sent inadvertently to Mr Ys Brother. They replied, and said theyd provided a letter 
which explained this  but the letter they provided attached a response to Mr Y about the 
value of his car.
In the absence of any further information, I think UKIs response has been poor to this  by 
not fully addressing the concerns Mr Y has raised. I think compensation of £50 would be 
appropriate, to put this matter right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Y replied, and said he was in agreement with my decision.
UKI said their engineers have reviewed the decision. And said in previous cases while our 
service typically relied on the average of the guides, theyd offered examples as an 
indication of what money can buy  but we werent persuaded by them. They said while the 
average of the guides would suggest theyd acted fairly, similar cars are now attracting a 
premium  so they agreed they should increase the value but werent sure £10,000 was fair. 
UKI explained their search parameters and provided two cars which said had an average of 
around £9,300.
UKI didnt comment on the cost of the report or the incorrect information sent to Mr Ys 
Brother.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank both parties for replying promptly, as thats allowed me to finalise 
matters.
Ive noted UKIs comments and am pleased to hear they recognise they should increase the 
value of Mr Ys car.
Theyve said theyve previously offered examples as an indication of what money can buy 
 but weve not been persuaded by that. Theyve not said what they mean by examples 
exactly  though Ill assume they mean adverts.I think its worth reiterating each case is decided on its own individual merits. Here in Mr Ys 
case, weve been provided with a bespoke independent engineers report to say the specific 
car should be valued at £10,000. I explained in my provisional findings the valuation hadnt 
been directly disputed by UKI.
Ive considered the adverts UKI have provided showing values of £9,482, and £9,190. I can 
see for the higher value car; the website suggests its valued around £900 less than it should 
be. I cant find the second car but can see the advert UKI have provided shows its a good 
value.
So, two opposing adverts really  one which I dont think supports UKIs position, as it 
suggests the value should be as high as almost £10,400, and another which says £9,190 is 
a good price which does support UKIs position.
UKI havent though engaged with the engineers report at any stage of this complaint as far 
as I can see. When Mr Y initially provided it, the comments from UKI were theyd offered the 
top book price of the guides. I arranged for us to ask in advance of my provisional decision 
for their comments on the engineers report  which they didnt provide. And in response to 
my provisional decision, where Ive focused on the engineers report as being a fair reason 
to increase the value of the car  theyve still not directly explained why the engineers report 
has unfairly valued the car.
Ultimately, for the reasons I explained above, I think the independent engineers bespoke 
report on Mr Ys car is a persuasive piece of evidence. UKI havent explained clearly why 
they disagree with that valuation. And the adverts theyve provided in response to my 
provisional decision arent so significantly out of line to make me think Im treating them 
unfairly by requiring them to pay the valuation the independent engineer has come to.
So, for the that reason, Ill still require them to pay the full £10,000  minus what theyve 
already paid. UKI didnt provide any further comments on the remaining elements of what I 
thought they should do. So, Ill still require them to do that for the same reasons I mentioned 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In summary then, I require UKI to:
Pay Mr Y the difference between the valuation theyve already paid, and the £10,000 
the independent engineer came to
Pay 8% interest* on this, from the date of the first claim payment, to the date of 
settlement
Refund Mr Y the cost of the independent report
Pay 8% interest* on this, from the date Mr Y paid for the report, to the date of the 
settlement
Pay Mr Y £250 compensation as outlined above.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UKI to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. UKI must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line Car 
Insurance to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman