DRN-4228377
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly applied his policy excess to his 
pet insurance claim.
Great Lakes is the underwriter or insurer for this policy. The claim and complaint handling 
was carried out by Great Lakes agent. My references to Great Lakes include its agent.
What happened
Mr B had a lifetime pet insurance policy with Great Lakes. The policy had an excess of £99 
per year if any claims were made.
In June 2022 Mr Bs dog needed vet treatment for an ear infection costing £64.43 and £27. 
In July 2022 the dog had vet treatment for a ripped claw costing £64.12. Through a relative, 
he claimed the total treatment costs of £155.55.
Great Lakes said Mr B had not made a successful claim under the policy. This was because 
the amounts he had claimed were under the £99 excess.
Mr B told Great Lakes that he struggles with communication due to his autism and 
authorised his relative to speak on his behalf.
Mr Bs relative said she and Mr B had both read his policy. The policy said he had an excess 
of £99 per year. So, they did not understand why Great Lakes had not paid his claim less 
the excess.
Great Lakes said the claims had been correctly assessed. It said: 
For a claim to be successful when an excess hasnt been deducted for that policy 
year, the claimed amount must be above the policy excess so it can be taken in one. 
This needs to be for the same condition so that we can record it correctly on our 
system.
Mr B came to us. He said the policy was misleading. The policy did not say he could not add 
vets bills together until the £99 excess limit had been reached.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He did not think the policy allowed Great Lakes to 
apply the excess in the way that it had. He said Great Lakes should pay the amount Mr B 
had claimed, minus the £99 excess. He said it should also pay Mr B £100 compensation for 
inconvenience.
Mr B and his relative thought the Investigators recommended settlement was fair.
Great Lakes did not agree. It asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, as it can do 
under our rules.
In summary, Great Lakes said that it charges the policy excess only once a policy year. But 
the first claim needs to be for more than the excess. In common with other insurers, it will 
decline claims that are under the policy excess. It is not usual industry practice to add small, 
separate claims together. And this service has decided in a similar case that Great Lakes 
has fairly applied the excess. So our approach is inconsistent.
The complaint came to me for review. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not 
intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy to see whether I think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr B fairly.
The policy does not define the word excess. The ordinary meaning of an excess is an 
amount the policyholder has to pay towards a claim.
The policys key information says: You might have to pay an excess towards medical 
treatment claims. It refers Mr B to the Policy Wording to check his excess, which is shown 
as £99 per year.
The policy has a yearly limit of £7,000 for vets fees and says:
We will pay up to £7,000 for all vets fees in any one year. This means there is no limit 
according to the number of claims you make or the number of illnesses your pet suffers. 
Instead, claims will be paid until the £7,000 limit is reached that year.
Great Lakes has referred us to its website which says:
If you make a successful claim, we will deduct the excess amount from the amount that we 
pay out to you or your vet.
Mr B and his relative say that Great Lakes did not explain in its policy that a claim must be 
more than £99 for a claim to be successful.
But I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly when it said that for a claim to be successful it 
would need to be for an amount that was greater than the policy excess. If a claim is for an 
amount less than the excess, then nothing is payable.
It is only once Mr B has made a claim over the excess that a payment will be made. He pays 
the first £99 and Great Lakes pays him the value of the claim over that amount. The excess 
is charged only once per year. And so for any subsequent claims, there is no further excess 
to pay.
Mr Bs relative submitted the three receipts for the dogs two conditions at the same time. 
But I think it was fair for Great Lakes to treat this submission as two separate claims.
The amounts Mr B had paid to treat his dogs ear infection were less than £99. The amount 
Mr B paid to treat his dogs ripped claw was also less than £99.
This meant that there was not any amount remaining for Mr B to make a successful claim 
under his policy either for his dogs ear infection or for the ripped claw.
Mr Bs relative says that the policy does not say that he cannot add up the vets bill until the 
£99 excess has been reached. But equally there is nothing in the policy to say that vets bills 
will be added together to make one claim - or that leads Mr B to expect that to happen.I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to decline the claims because they were below the 
excess limit. As I think the claims decisions were fair this means that I dont require Great 
Lakes to pay Mr Bs claims or any compensation.
I know Mr B and his relative will be very disappointed with the outcome. I appreciate that 
they consider the way the excess was applied was not fairly set out in the policy. But I hope 
I have explained why I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr Bs relative responded to say that she was very disappointed with my provisional 
decision. In summary, she said:
The Great Lakes policy did not state that the excess was £99 per condition. 
If Mr B had seen the excess was £99 per condition he would have gone elsewhere 
as it was not the cheapest policy. It seems that Great Lakes has been deceptive by 
not informing its customers what they could expect. As such, Great Lakes has 
secured business through unfair gain. For this reason, I should find in Mr Bs favour. 
I have not commented on points made by our Investigator, including the requirement 
for the policy to be clear.
I have focused on the policy. But Mr Bs relatives point is that the policy clearly 
states that there is only one £99 excess to pay per year. 
In an extract from its response to Mr Bs complaint, Great Lakes referred to industry 
standards and it mentioned other named policies. But it did not say that these other 
insurers make it clear that the excess is per condition, per year. This information has 
been omitted from their and our investigation. 
She requests that I research the other policies and she has provided extracts for my 
review. 
She is not aware (and nor should she be) of previous complaints. But if there are 
similarities between an earlier case and Mr Bs complaint then this suggests the 
policy has caused confusion in the past and this should be addressed to prevent 
confusion for future policyholders.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Bs relative had asked to discuss the complaint. Our Investigator offered 
her the facility to record her comments. But I think that Mr Bs relative has clearly expressed 
her points in writing and I do not need additional information to decide this complaint. 
While I have summarised the issues, I have considered all the evidence that has been 
provided. Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision and below. I will focus on the issues that I consider to be central to this 
complaint. 
Mr Bs policy does not require a £99 excess to be paid per condition. The policy is different 
from the other policies that Mr Bs relative has mentioned and which I have read. 
The difficulty here is that Mr B did not make a successful claim under the policy to allow him 
to pay the £99 excess. The amounts that he claimed were for two different conditions but 
were both under the policy excess.
If Mr Bs first claim for the dogs ear infection had been more than £99 then Great Lakes would have paid the claim less the £99 excess. His claim for the dogs ripped claw would 
then have been paid without the deduction of any excess. Any further claims in that policy 
year (that met the policys remaining terms and conditions) would also have been paid 
without any excess being deducted.
This is not the case for the other policies that Mr Bs relative mentions. For those policies, 
the £99 excess would also have applied for the second ripped claw claim and for any claims 
for other conditions. This is different from the Great Lakes policy that required the excess of 
£99 to be paid only once per year.  
It follows that I think Great Lakes fairly explained in its policy that the £99 excess would 
apply only once per year. I am not a regulator and it is not for me to review Great Lakes 
business practices. But in this case, I dont find that the information Great Lakes provided to 
Mr B was misleading. 
I understand that Mr Bs relative strongly disagrees with the outcome. I have considered 
what she says about Mr B taking things factually and literally due to his autism. Neither she 
nor Mr B found the policy to be clear.  
But I think the policy did correctly say that the policyholder would pay only one excess of £99 
per year. The excess is the amount the policyholder pays towards the claim. And here 
Mr Bs contribution was under the £99 excess so he could not make a successful claim. 
I have noted Mr Bs relatives point about the other case to which Great Lakes referred. She 
says another consumer has complained about the same issue, then this would tend to 
support Mr Bs complaint that the policy is unclear. But as I have explained I consider each 
complaint on its own facts and merits. And in this case, I find that I cannot fairly uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman