DRN-3405646
The complaint
Mr T believes that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) should have provided more 
comprehensive information to him at the point he was considering his options related to 
surrendering his with-profits pension plan in 2020. Mr T says the lack of information led to 
him transferring a materially lower plan valuation to a drawdown plan when his instructions 
were acted upon
What happened
On 16 May 2020, Phoenix sent Mr T a Retirement Options pack relating to his with-profits 
pension plan. This contained an illustration that the estimated value of the plan was 
c£204,000.
On 27 June 2020, Mr T created a new Active Money Personal Pension Plan
with another provider (Company A) which included a request from him for Company A to 
transfer his plan from Phoenix into the newly created one.
Company A requested additional information from Mr T to satisfy their anti-money
laundering requirements, which it received on 1 July 2020.
Phoenix received the transfer request from Company A on 6 July 2020 and wrote to Mr T on 
9 July 2020 to confirm receipt of the transfer request, which provided an updated 
estimated policy value of c£183,000.
Mr T called Phoenix to complain on 31 July 2020.
Phoenix investigated Mr Ts complaint and declined to uphold it in a letter to Mr T on 9 
October 2020. It acknowledged that its final response to Mr T took longer than 8 weeks and 
offered him £50 compensation in respect of this.
Mr T confirmed to Company A on 28 October 2020 that he wished to continue with the 
transfer at the lower value, and the transfer completed on 30 October 2020.
Mr T subsequently complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. After reviewing all the 
relevant information, our Investigator recommended that this complaint not be upheld, as 
they concluded that it had acted correctly and given Mr T all the information that it should 
have done. Mr T disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to take a fresh look at the 
evidence and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered all the information provided by Mr T and Phoenix but will be 
outlining below what I consider to be the most pertinent and relevant of this information. 
Having done so, and considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and shall not be upholding Mr Ts complaint.
I can understand that this will be disappointing for Mr T, but Ill explain how I reached this 
decision.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the original illustration provided to Mr T by Phoenix on 16 May 2020 
provided enough information that it is reasonable to assume that he knew that the estimated 
final value of his fund was indeed an estimate, and subject to change.
Mr T is also correct in that this document made no reference as to how the value of the final 
bonus would be calculated, the date on which the current calculation was based and the 
date on which new assumptions would be applied. 
At this point I must explain that it is impractical for a with-profits final bonus to be calculated 
on a very frequent basis, owing to the complexity of the calculations required. For this 
reason, Phoenix calculate final bonuses twice a year, in August and March, with the bonuses 
taking effect for surrenders in July and January respectively.
Unfortunately for Mr T, the original illustration he was provided in May 2020 was based on 
final bonus assumptions calculated in August 2019, before the covid pandemic affected the 
value of many of the underlying investments. By the time his instruction to transfer his fund 
value to Company A was received and acted upon, the basis of the calculation had changed 
to those calculated in March 2020 when asset values had fallen significantly. This is the 
principal reason for the reduction in value between the two estimates.
I recognise Mr T accepts Phoenix shouldnt have warned him that bonus rates were about to 
drop (which would have been commercially sensitive information). But he thinks it should 
have done more to allow him to make an informed choice  for instance, by highlighting that 
bonus rates were about to be announced so policy holders would need to consider that 
when thinking about transferring. Mr T may well have tried to accelerate his transfer in that 
scenario if he thought bonus rates were about to fall. However, I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect Phoenix to provide bespoke information to policy holders along these 
lines just because theyre in the run-up to a new bonus announcement. Phoenix provided 
details on Mr Ts policy on 16 May 2020, including that the policy value it quoted wasnt 
guaranteed. Phoenix also provides information on how it manages its with profits funds on its 
website and it told Mr T his policy value before he agreed to the transfer. I consider Mr T was 
given enough information to make an informed decision. 
Next, Id like to turn to the issue of whether Phoenix processed Mr Ts original transfer 
instruction in good time. Mr T made his original application to Company A to set up a new 
account and transfer his Phoenix funds to it on 27 June before the new final bonus rates 
took effect on 1 July. While it is true that Phoenix and Company A are both part of the same 
corporate structure, they are established and set up as separate legal entities and are 
obliged to operate as such. As such, I find that Mr Ts instruction to Company A came too 
late to be reasonably completed by Phoenix before the new rates took effect. 
Finally, although Mr T has not explicitly requested that he be compensated for the c10% fall 
in the illustration provided to him in May 2020 compared with the estimate provided in July, I 
feel that I should address this point as it is implicit in this complaint. I dont think that it would 
be fair or reasonable to find that Mr T has been financially disadvantaged. As Ive mentioned 
earlier, although an earlier transfer would likely have resulted in Mr T receiving a higher 
bonus rate, Phoenix did not need to give him more detailed information about the date the 
bonus rate would change or the time by which it would need to receive his instruction for him 
to receive a particular bonus rate. Mr T received the correct bonus rate for the time his 
instruction was processed, and Phoenix acted promptly to make the transfer once requested 
to do so.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman