DRN-3781378
The complaint
Mr B complains J D Williams & Company Limited sent him marketing materials after his 
account was passed to a debt collection agency.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for 
these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs accounts say J D Williams may send marketing 
information by post, email, or phone. But they also explain consumers can opt out 
from this. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B had opted out of receiving 
marketing information before his complaint, so I cant fairly say J D Williams acted 
outside the terms of Mr Ds account by sending marketing materials.
While J D Williams could send marketing material, I cant ignore the fact one of 
Mr Bs accounts had been passed to a debt collection agency and he was unable to 
use it. So, I can understand why he would have found it frustrating and unhelpful to 
receive correspondence encouraging him to spend more.
I consider J D Williams took Mr Bs complaint seriously as they opted him out of 
marketing materials after receiving his complaint. They also paid him £30 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience he experienced. This award is in line 
with what I would have suggested, so I dont consider J D Williams needs to increase 
their offer.
J D Williams explained to Mr B it can take around four weeks for marketing materials 
to stop. This isnt unusual given the way businesses prepare correspondence So, 
I cant agree with Mr B that J D Williams acted unreasonably by not guaranteeing he 
wouldnt receive further marketing information in the short term. Ive seen system 
notes that show Mr B has been opted out of all types of marketing material, so I wont 
be asking J D Williams to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
For the reasons above, while I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about J D Williams & Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman