DRN-3239527
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that the website of OneSavings Bank Plc, trading as Kent Reliance, was 
unavailable to him for several days, preventing him from logging into his Kent Reliance 
saving account.
What happened
Mr G attempted to log in to his Kent Reliance savings account online but was unable to do 
so and received an error message when he tried. Mr G contacted Kent Reliance about this, 
but they were unable to help. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Kent Reliance looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they had no record of any issues with their 
website at the times that Mr G had been unable to log on and felt theyd made reasonable 
efforts to help Mr G resolve the problem. So, they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Kent Reliances response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that it 
could fairly or reasonably concluded that Kent Reliance should be held accountable for the 
issues Mr G had experienced, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr G to have not been able to log on 
to his account, especially as his personal circumstances are such that other potential means 
of accessing the account, such as telephone banking, arent are a feasible option for him.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected that Kent Reliance would have tried to 
work with Mr G to have restored his online access to his account as quickly as possible. 
I feel that Kent Reliance did that here, and this is because its evident from the information 
provided to this service by Kent Reliance that they did undertake a detailed investigation into 
why Mr G might have been experiencing such account access issues in order to then try to 
resolve those issues for him.
But Kent Reliances investigation confirmed that there were no issues with their website at 
the time that Mr G couldnt log on, and as such Kent Reliance concluded that, rather than 
there being a problem with their servers as Mr G believed, there may have been an issue at 
some other point in the data connection which was out of their control.
Having reviewed all the information provided to this service by Kent Reliance, I find it difficult 
not to reach the same conclusion here. And this is because, as explained previously, Im 
satisfied from the information that Kent Reliance provided that they did undertake a detailed 
investigation into why Mr G might have been experiencing these issues.
Im aware that Mr G has personal experience of working with multi-user computer systems, 
and that on the basis of that experience he feels strongly that the issue does originate within 
Kent Reliance. Im not discounting Mr Gs experience here, but I also cant discount the 
experience and knowledge of Kent Reliances own IT personal who have investigated this 
problem and who work with the system under consideration here on a day to day basis, and 
who as mentioned previously confirmed that there wasnt any issue with their website at the 
times that Mr G couldnt connect to it.
It's also notable that when Mr G continued to experience difficulties, Ken Reliance did make 
continuing efforts to try to assist Mr G, including offering to remotely access his computer so 
as to check if there were any issues with that computer as they suspected their might be.
This offer from Kent Reliance seems reasonable to me, and while Mr G has correctly stated 
that consumers are urged to be cautious about such requests, I feel that it was evident that 
Mr G was definitely corresponding with Kent Reliance at that time such that the offer was 
legitimate. 
Mr G declined Kent Reliances offer, stating that he had personal information on his 
computer and wasnt comfortable allowing Kent Reliance access to it. This was of course Mr 
Gs decision to make, but I continue to feel that Kent Reliances offer here was a reasonable 
attempt to find a resolution to Mr Gs continuing connectivity problems, and I note that Mr G 
could have monitored the remote access and terminated the connection if he felt Kent 
Reliance were overstepping the agreed bounds.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Kent Reliance have been able to demonstrate that 
they werent experiencing any website issues at the time that Mr G was unbale to connect, 
which I feel means that it was most likely that the issue that Mr G was experiencing was 
originating at some other point in the connection which was outside of Kent Reliances 
control. And I also feel that Kent Reliance did make reasonable efforts to help Mr G find the 
source of the issues he was experiencing and to resolve those issues. And this is what this 
service would expect of Kent Reliance, in such circumstances. 
As such, I find it very difficult to conclude that Kent Reliance have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr G here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Kent Reliance to take any further action at this time. I realise this 
wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman