DRN-3872653
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase agreement with NNIB 
Group Ltd trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like 
to reject it and end her agreement. She would also like a refund of payments made to date 
including car tax and bus fares. And compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
When issues arise within the first six months of having a car , as is the case here, we 
expect the business to investigate any issues and if appropriate resolve them. 
Northridge did what I would have expected it to do  it offered to arrange an 
independent inspection saying that if issues were found it would refer these back to 
the dealership to resolve. 
However there has been no independent inspection as Mrs S refused to authorise 
one. We have gone back to Mrs S to talk about this. She is still refusing to an 
independent inspection as she feels the car was repaired by the dealership who are 
lying. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of this.
I have considered the other information that I have . Mrs S has told us the car broke 
down twice , once soon after she got it and the second time soon after it was looked 
at by the dealership. I have seen the relevant job card from the dealership. This 
states the car was test driven twice with no problem and it found no faults. I 
appreciate Mrs S doesnt agree with this but thats why an independent inspection is 
so important  independent inspections are exactly that i.e. independent of both 
parties, so we often rely on them. Its unfortunate but without some evidence of an 
actual fault it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell Northridge to end Mrs S 
agreement, and refund her costs and compensate her as she would like. 
Mrs S has also told us she asked to reject the car within the thirty days she had to do 
so. Unfortunately, having seen Mrs Ss correspondence thats not accurate. Mrs S 
took out her agreement on 23 April 2022. She took delivery of the car on 28 April 
2022. On 15 May 2022 she wrote to Northridge asking it to resolve  the matter but 
didnt state she wished to reject the car. She then wrote again to Northridge on 10 
June 2022 stating she wished to reject the car. Her request to reject was, therefore, 
more than thirty days after she got the car .
Whilst I have concluded I have no grounds to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Northridge 
has told us it would be happy to discuss a settlement figure for the car with Mrs S in 
order to end her agreement. I suggest Mrs S discusses this with Northridge as , given 
I am not upholding her complaint, she still has an agreement with Northridge that she 
either needs to pay or to  settle. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman