DRN-3865758
The complaint
Mr L says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (FD), mis-handled his current account 
switch. He says he didnt receive the advertised switching bonus as a result.
To avoid confusion, Ill refer to FD in this decision rather than HSBC, other than where I 
believe it would be helpful to differentiate between the two.
What happened
Mr L applied to open a current account with FD in July 2022, intending to switch from his 
previous bank. In doing so, he says he believed he stood to benefit from an offer where FD 
would pay him an incentive of £150 if he met certain eligibility criteria.
The switch didnt take place as quickly as planned partly due to high demand, but the new 
account opened ten days later. When the switch did take place in August 2022, FD didnt 
consider him to be eligible for the bonus on the grounds hed previously held an account with 
FD. 
Mr L was unhappy and complained to FD. FD agreed it could have done better in handling 
the new account and switch and offered to pay him £50 as compensation. But it maintained 
that Mr L wasnt eligible for the switching bonus as per the terms of the offer. 
Unhappy with FDs response, Mr L complained to us. He said FDs offer wasnt sufficient 
given it had made multiple errors in arranging the switch. He disagreed with FD that he 
wasnt eligible for the bonus just because he briefly held an account with FD in 2017. He felt 
misled by FD via social media that him holding an account with it in the past wouldnt prevent 
him from being eligible. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They were satisfied that the evidence showed FDs offer of compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. The investigator considered that Mr L wasnt eligible for the bonus as per the 
terms of the offer and that the terms had been made clear to him.
Mr L replied to say that he didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the response 
from FD sent via social media indicated eligibility for the bonus depended on customers not 
having opened an HSBC account on or after 1 January 2019. As he hadnt opened an HSBC 
account on or after that date, he felt he was due the bonus.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the switch of Mr Ls account didnt take place as planned in July 2022. 
FD accepts that and offered him £50 as compensation for the impact of the problems he 
encountered. It doesnt believe Mr Ls eligible for the switching bonus.
Ill firstly address what Mr L says he feels is the crux of the complaint. That is, whether FD 
led him to believe he was eligible for the bonus. I think there are two pieces of information 
that are of particular importance on that point  the terms of the switching offer and the 
social media response Mr L received three days after accepting the account and switch 
terms. 
The terms of the offer Ive seen are from when the bonus was £175 rather than £150. But I 
accept FDs explanation that the remaining terms were unchanged from when Mr L applied 
for the switch.
The terms explain that not everyone will be eligible for the bonus. They say to be eligible, the 
customer cant have previously held an account with FD and/or hasnt opened a HSBC 
current account on or after 1 January 2019. So, there are two parts to the requirement. The 
consumer wont be eligible if theyve opened an HSBC current account on or after 1 January 
2019. It seems the parties agree that Mr L didnt have an HSBC account on or after that 
time, so this part of the offer wouldnt prevent him from claiming the switching bonus.
However, the other part of the offers that the customer cant have held an account with FD. 
As FD says, and Mr L accepts, he did hold an account with FD for a time in 2017. On that 
basis, Im satisfied that he wasnt eligible for the switching bonus as per the terms of the 
offer he agreed to.
FDs social media message explained the second part of the requirement  that Mr L must 
not have had an HSBC account on or after 1 January 2019  but didnt reflect the first part of 
the requirement in the same way as the terms of the offer. Namely, that hed also be 
ineligible for the switching bonus if hed ever held an account with FD (which he had). It did 
say that the offer was open to New customers only. For the reasons given, Mr L couldnt 
reasonably be described as a new customer of FD.  
I recognise that the information provided via social media could have been clearer in Mr Ls 
view. But I believe the message was sufficiently clear when considered in the context of it 
clearly being from FD and that the applicant had to be a new customer to FD to be eligible. 
That said, Im satisfied in any event that the message wasnt received until three days after 
Mr L had already been sent, and had accepted, the terms of the account and the switch. I 
dont think the message made any material difference to Mr L because, by that time, hed 
already applied for the account with FD. I havent seen any evidence to suggest, for 
example, that Mr L was influenced by the message into taking action he wouldnt otherwise 
have taken and which led to any detriment. 
It follows that Im satisfied FDs decision not to pay the switching bonus to Mr L was fair.
In terms of how FD handled Mr Ls application, it seems for example that although the new 
account was opened within ten days, this might have happened even sooner had it not been 
for problems it was having with its systems. The switch was delayed until around four weeks 
after the initial application due to issues regarding his debit card details. FD apologised to 
Mr L for all this and credited his account with £50 as compensation.
Taking everything into account, including the length of the delays and the impact on Mr L, I 
consider FDs offer of £50 as compensation was fair in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman