DRN-2866615
The complaint
Mr R has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision not to cover all the items he 
claimed for following a burglary. Mr R made a claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Rs home was burgled and several items and cash were stolen. Mr R 
made a claim to his insurer, esure. 
esure agreed to settle his claim for some of the items. Mr R had insured two high value 
watches for £5,000 each. For ease Ill refer to them as watch A and watch B.
esures policy said Mr R would need to provide proof of valuation within three years in order 
for these items to be covered. esure said Mr R hadnt provided sufficient proof of purchase  
or valuation - for either of the watches and so declined this part of his claim.
Mr R was unhappy with esures decision and so he contacted us. Our investigator found that 
Mr R had provided photos of both watches, warranties and the original boxes. 
In relation to watch A, Mr R hadnt obtained a valuation of it in the past three years and it had 
been bought over three years before. As the valuation condition was clear in esures policy 
conditions, the investigator didnt recommend esure should meet the claim.
But in relation to watch B, the investigator thought Mr R had provided sufficient proof of 
ownership. The concerns esure raised about some inconsistencies werent  in his view  
sufficient to decide Mr Rs claim was false. Watch B had been purchased from new less than 
three years before it was stolen.
So the investigator thought esure should settle Mr Rs claim for watch B. 
Mr R accepted the investigators findings. esure didnt agree. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat in detail the investigators findings in relation to watch A - other than 
to say that having reviewed the policy terms and the evidence Mr R provided, I think esures 
decision not to meet this part of his claim was reasonable. So my decision focuses on the 
remaining item: watch B  and whether esures decision to reject Mr Rs claim for this watch 
was reasonable and in line with the policy. 
The same terms and conditions for watch A apply to watch B. esures policy says for any 
specified items, Mr R must hold valuations for any watches and the valuations should be 
less than three years old. 
Mr R says a client told him somebody was selling watch B on a social media site and that if 
Mr R made a reduced cash offer that day, they would sell it. Mr R bought the watch.
Mr R provided the original receipt for the watch which the buyer gave him when they bought 
it new. Along with photos of him wearing the watch, the original box and warranty. The 
receipt is dated October 2018. So this is just over a year before the burglary. 
In June 2020 Mr R provided a handwritten receipt from the buyer providing their contact 
details. Mr R said the original buyer was happy for esure to contact them and provide a 
further written statement if required. 
esure says that Mr R hasnt demonstrated that he owned the watch. I disagree. I dont think 
its unusual for a customer to buy a second hand watch in the way Mr R did. While it has 
concerns about  the motives of the original buyer as to why they sold it and the price they 
sold it for, these are speculative and not something Mr R is responsible for. And I think esure 
had the opportunity to contact the original buyer about its concerns when provided with their 
details. 
Ive carefully considered all of esures concerns. But I dont think they justify its decision not 
to meet Mr Rs claim for watch B. 
As the date of purchase was well within three years of the loss, I think Mr R has provided 
sufficient proof of value and ownership for esure to settle his claim for watch B. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to settle Mr Rs claim for watch B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman