DRN-3160893
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has delayed 
settling his claim under his motor insurance policy following an incident.
What happened
Mr B had an insurance policy with Haven at the relevant time. On a night out with his partner 
in September 2020, his partner took Mr Bs car-keys following an altercation and drove off, 
crashing the car into another car. Mr B reported the incident to the police and was given an 
incident log number and a crime reference number. He also contacted Haven to make a 
claim on his policy. Haven declared the car to be a total loss and treated it as a write off. 
Haven informed Mr B that a police report would be needed to validate the claim. Mr B then 
contacted Haven on several occasions in the weeks following the incident. He formally 
complained to Haven in November 2020, as he was unhappy about the lack of progress on 
his claim. Haven responded saying that it had requested, and was waiting for, the police 
report and couldnt provide a time scale for receiving it as it was not a matter within its 
control.
In December 2020, Mr B contacted Haven again for a progress report. Haven said that it had 
not received incident details from the police. Mr B said that his communication with the 
police indicated that Haven hadnt followed up progress. Mr B said that Haven wouldnt allow 
Mr B to discuss his concerns with a manager. In January 2021, Haven told Mr B that it was 
chasing the police for a response.
In February 2021, Haven provided its final response and reiterated that it would need to 
receive the police report before it could look to settle the claim. Mr B didnt agree with 
Havens decision. He was also unhappy about the service hed received from Haven, so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Mr B has told us that due to Havens failure to progress the claim, hes continued to pay for 
his car through a finance agreement, despite the insurance company having taken 
possession of it. Mr B said hes had to source a new car and that he is now financing two 
cars. Mr B wanted his claim to be settled and compensation to be paid for the cost of 
sourcing another vehicle, to include interest. He also stated that Havens approach has 
caused him great distress and that he wished to be compensated for this.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence and said that there was no exact timescale that 
the service would consider to be fair or unfair in settling a claim. He looked to see if Haven 
had unnecessarily delayed the process. He also looked at how Haven communicated with 
Mr B. He noted that Mr B had co-operated and had done everything required of him during 
the claims process. Hed reported the incident to the police in good time and provided Haven 
with relevant police information. 
In conclusion however, our investigator came to the view that it wasnt unreasonable for 
Haven to wish to review a police report before validating Mr Bs claim, particularly as it had 
been clear throughout that this was the evidence it needed to support the claim. Overall, 
however, our investigator didnt feel that Haven had treated Mr B fairly when communicating 
with him and recommended that Haven should pay Mr B £150 to compensate for the 
distress caused to Mr B.
Mr B remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has therefore been 
referred to me to come to a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint in relation to the customer 
service element only. Ill explain why.
The criminal offence of theft includes a number of different elements. One of these is an 
intention permanently to deprive the owner of his/her vehicle. There is a separate criminal 
offence of taking a vehicle without the owners consent (TWOC). TWOC is an offence under 
the Theft Act 1968. In the context of an insurance claim, I find it fair and reasonable that 
theft would include TWOC. In this particular case, the police are investigating the matter, 
but are yet to confirm a final decision and to produce a report to Haven regarding the 
incident and any potential crime.
Most motor insurance policies have an exclusion for theft by family members or associates. 
Most policies also make it clear that there is an exception to this exclusion if the policyholder 
co-operates with the police in investigating or prosecuting the theft. Havens policy includes 
variations on such exclusion and exception clauses.
Turning therefore to the specific terms and conditions of Mr Bs motor insurance policy with 
Haven, it clearly covers his car in the event of a theft. Under the heading in the policy booklet 
What is not covered, it then includes; Loss of or damage to Your Car as a result of it being 
taken or driven by a person who is not insured to drive it by this policy but is a member of 
Your family or household, or any other person known to You, unless You can prove they 
intended permanently to deprive You of Your Car.
The Conditions require the policyholder to report an incident to Haven and also to the 
police. Under the heading General Exclusions it states;- We will not cover any claim for 
loss, damage or liability, and Your policy may be cancelled, if Your Car is being: Driven by 
or in charge of anybody who is not named in the Certificate of Motor Insurance as a person 
entitled to drive unless:...Your Car was stolen or taken without Your permission and reported 
as such to the Police. You must provide Us proof of prosecution or ongoing investigation.
Mr B states that he has complied with all the requirements of his policy as above and wishes 
his claim to be settled. He doesnt think that its fair and reasonable to have to wait until the 
police conclude their investigations before settling his claim. 
Haven has stated that it made it clear to Mr B in November 2020 that, in these 
circumstances, a police report was vital to the validation of a theft claim. It said that upon 
receipt of the police report, the fire and theft team would look to review and validate the 
claim. In its final response letter, Haven repeated that due to the nature of the claim, further 
validation checks were needed before it could look to settle Mr Bs claim.
Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Bs policy. Its arguable that the extract from the 
exclusion and exception provisions quoted above is not consistent with the extract from the 
general exclusions which are also quoted. The narrow exception requiring the policyholder to prove his partners intention to permanently deprive Mr B of his car is an unusual provision. 
Our approach is that an unusual exception of this nature would need to be highlighted very 
clearly at the time that Mr B took out his insurance policy. Ive seen no evidence to show that 
Haven did so.
In this instance however, Ive come to the conclusion that, reading the policy as a whole, its 
more likely than not that the exception in the general exclusions applies to the circumstances 
of this case (where the Car was stolen or taken withoutpermission and reported as such 
to the Police with proof of prosecution or ongoing investigation), even though the exception 
doesnt refer to instances including a member of the policyholders family or household, or 
any other person known to him.
To summarise the above, Im satisfied that Mr B complied with his obligations under his 
policy, both in reporting the incident to the police and in providing clear evidence of an 
ongoing investigation. The circumstances of the incident are unusual however and Ive 
concluded that it wouldnt be unfair or unreasonable for Haven to expect to see whether the 
incident was likely to be treated by the police as a theft or a TWOC. A police report may also 
reasonably lead to the consideration of other terms and conditions of the policy.
I agree with our investigator therefore that, although there is no reason to doubt Mr Bs 
version of events, sometimes a police report will show that the police dont believe that a 
crime has been committed or that theres insufficient evidence to take any action. Our 
approach is that thefts by family members or close associates do pose a higher risk due to 
the ease of access to the vehicle and its keys.
I appreciate that the delay will be extremely frustrating for Mr B. Unfortunately however, if its 
reasonable to await information from third parties, delays are often outside the control of an 
insurer. In the circumstances, I cant say that Haven has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
requiring and awaiting receipt of the police report for review before validating and paying out 
on Mr Bs claim. I would expect Haven to now check the position with the police on a regular 
basis and to promptly complete the validation process on receipt of the police report. Mr B 
can bring a further complaint once the police report has been received, if he considers 
Havens decision on the claim to be unfair or unreasonable at that stage.
Turning now to the way in which Haven has handled Mr Bs claim, Ive listened to relevant 
telephone calls and considered all the written evidence. Mr B has set out clear details of the 
various contacts hes had with Haven. Hes also explained his concerns (for instance, the 
transfer of his call to staff who didnt appear to know what report was being awaited from the 
police), unfulfilled promises to telephone Mr B back and a generally poor customer 
experience.
In conclusion, Mr B says that he has written to Haven, filed formal complaints and called it 
numerous times, but to no avail. He also says that he didnt receive a written procedure 
explaining how his claim would be handled despite requesting this. He considers the level of 
customer service to be; appalling and very unprofessional, and has caused him distress.
Haven stated in its final response letter that it had reviewed this aspect of Mr Bs complaint 
but considered that it could provide no updates while it was waiting for a copy of any police 
report. Once any such report was received and reviewed, Haven said that they would look to 
validate Mr Bs claim swiftly and would contact Mr B with any progress. Haven agreed 
however that it had only chased the police report once in March 2021 although the claim 
notes say that it was due to chase the report if it hadnt been received by early January 
2021. I have concluded that Haven hasnt handled Mr Bs complaint well in all respects. I consider 
that Haven could have chased the police for their report on the incident sooner, (even 
though its unlikely to have made any difference to the rate of progress of the investigation). 
Ive also concluded that Haven werent sufficiently proactive in keeping Mr B informed of 
process and progress. When Mr B contacted Haven in December 2020, Mr Bs request to 
speak to a manager was declined. It would have been reasonable at this stage if a manager 
had spoken to Mr B in order to listen to and consider his concerns regarding progress and 
Havens handling of Mr Bs complaint.
Im not satisfied therefore that Haven communicated effectively with Mr B about his claim. 
Ive concluded that the distress and inconvenience caused by the communication failures will 
have been additional to those caused by the incident itself and I consider that modest 
compensation for this element would be appropriate in all the circumstances..
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint, with regard to the failure 
of Haven Insurance Company Limited to communicate effectively regarding Mr Bs claim.
I therefore intend to require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay compensation to Mr B 
in the sum of £150 for the additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B in relation to 
the handling of his claim within 28 days of his acceptance of the Final Decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman