DRN-1157213
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in November 2004. Miss L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
The PPI was taken out some time after Miss L applied for her credit card. The PPI provided 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also would have paid a benefit in the 
event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays says the PPI was sold to Miss L during a telephone call and that she would have 
been given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been able to provide a 
recording of the call in which the sale took place  which isnt surprising given the sale took 
place over 15 years ago. So I dont know what was said in the discussion between Miss L 
and the Barclays representative. But Barclays has referred me to a PPI sales script which it 
says its telephone staff would have used in November 2004 when Miss L was sold the PPI. 
Looking at the sales script, I'm satisfied that the Barclays representative would have asked 
Miss L whether she wanted to take out the PPI and gained her consent before adding the 
PPI to her credit card.
Businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say 
that Barclays wouldnt have given Miss L a choice or gained her consent, just because it no 
longer has a copy of the call recording in which the sale took place. I cant assume that the 
Barclays representative didnt follow the sales script when there isnt any persuasive 
evidence to support this. So it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Miss L would have 
understood that the PPI was optional. I also think its more likely than not that Miss L would 
have agreed to the PPI, although I can understand why she cant remember this now.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss L, and the policy seems to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover 
and I cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions. Miss L has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work. She says this shows she didnt need the 
PPI. Ive thought about what Miss L has told us about her sick pay but I dont think this would 
have meant that the PPI wasnt right for her. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Miss L would have received from her employer and would have potentially paid out 
for longer than Miss L would have received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit in Miss L was made redundant or in the unfortunate event of her death. 
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Miss L when 
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Barclays recommendation was suitable. And I think Miss L could have found the cover 
useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Miss L, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays didnt give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Miss L buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L. But Barclays has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because:
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss L, that 
was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman