DRN-2004471
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was taken out in one 
of the banks branches when Mrs D was applying for a loan secured on her home. The policy 
provided Mrs D with cover for accident, sickness (up to five years) and unemployment (up to 
one year). It also provided some life cover, and cost £5.33 a month.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. 
Where some of the information is missing - as here  Ive based my decision on what I think 
most likely happened given the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances.
 
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs D suggests she wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI, as she wasnt told it was 
optional. I cant be sure what was discussed between her and the bank, and I havent been 
given a copy of the application form she signed. However, the bank has sent us a copy of 
the sort of form it used at the time and I cant see any reason why Mrs D would have been 
given a different one. The application form had a section where Mrs D had to sign to say she 
wanted the PPI. There was a no section next to it, and she had to choose which to sign. 
I think Mrs D must have signed yes to the PPI as otherwise it wouldnt have been set up 
alongside the loan. The PPI (and how much it cost) was shown on the loan offer paperwork 
which Mrs D signed. I think its clear Mrs D was given a choice and I cant see she thought 
she had to have the PPI in order to get the loan. 
On balance, despite what Mrs D remembers, I think the bank made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised Mrs D to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs D was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Mrs D says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work due 
to a sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place 
would mean Mrs D could use her work-related benefits and savings to pay for other 
expenses. This would probably have been all the more important when the policy was 
sold given that Mrs D was solely responsible for repaying the loan and had children. So 
I think Mrs D would have had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements.
- Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mrs D 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The PPI application set out what the policy would cost each month and was set to repay 
her loan instalments if a successful claim was made. So I think Mrs D would have been 
aware how much she would be paying for the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet her monthly loan 
repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mrs D would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman