DRN-2561128
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited have settled a claim as 50/50 liability. She 
said the third party admitted fault and she let Tesco know, but they didnt change their 
decision.
What happened
On 7 July 2020 Ms G was involved in an accident at a supermarket car park. She says she 
was about to drive away when she was hit by the third party. 
Tesco contacted the third party insurer who said they were disputing liability as the other 
driver said both he and Ms G were reversing at the same time when they hit in the 
supermarket car park, which is different to Ms Gs version of events. 
Following the accident Ms G and the third party exchanged text messages which she has 
provided to us. Ms G says in one of these messages, the third party asked for her bank 
details. Shes questioned why the third party would have said this if he didnt think he was at 
fault. Ms G said her in law was in the car at the time so could give a witness statement. She 
also said someone who worked at the supermarket saw the collision and although she tried 
to locate this individual to get a witness statement, she was unable to get his details. 
Tesco didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint and settled it as 50/50 liability. They considered the 
pictures Ms G sent of her vehicle but explained this didnt show how the damage had 
occurred and they thought both versions of events were plausible. They also considered the 
text messages, but these didnt admit liability. Although Ms G had her in law in the car, 
Tesco didnt think she could be relied on as an independent witness. So based on 
everything, they decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. 
Ms G wasnt happy with this as she felt Tesco were accepting the version of the other driver 
over her own. She was also concerned about losing her no claims discount. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged Tesco could have done a 
fuller investigation as they didnt have an engineers report for the third party vehicle and 
they didnt forward the text messages to the third party insurer. However, he said it would be 
difficult for an engineer to say who was responsible looking at the cars after the incident, and 
he also thought the text messages from the third party didnt admit liability. He also 
explained Ms Gs in law wouldnt be seemed as an independent witness. So overall, he felt 
Tesco had dealt with the claim reasonably.  
Ms G replied re-iterating what shed said previously about her complaint. She also 
questioned if both cars were reversing at the same time, why was she hit on the side. She 
also asked why Tesco only believe the third party because if she was at fault, she would 
have admitted this.
Our investigator said Tesco can settle the claim as they see fit and taking everything into 
consideration, he didnt think the claim was handled unreasonably given the lack of witness 
and difficulty in saying how the damage to the car was caused. So he still didnt think the 
claim should be upheld. 
As Ms G remained unhappy, she asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained we dont decide which party is to blame for causing an 
accident. Thats something which it is more appropriate for a court to look at. We do however 
consider whether an insurer acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decision about the 
claim. So I have considered whether Tesco reached a decision is fair and reasonable taking 
into account all the information provided by both sides.
I can see that when Ms G reported the accident, she said she was driving away when the 
third party crashed into her. Following this Tesco contacted the third party insurer seeking 
payment to cover the costs. However, the third party insurer replied to say their policy holder 
had said both cars were reversing at the same time when they hit each other. 
Based on the information provided by Tesco there wasnt any CCTV or dashcam footage 
held by either car to show exactly what happened at the time so Tesco were unable to 
review this.
Although Ms G provided photos of the damage to her car, I agree with our investigator that 
this doesnt show how the accident happened. Ms G has questioned if both cars were 
reversing at the same time then why would there be damage to one side of her. But even if 
there was an engineers report for both cars, it wouldnt show what each car was doing at the 
time so I dont think Tesco did anything wrong here.  
Ms G has said her in law was in the car at the time so she can provide a witness statement. 
But as our investigator explained, this person wouldnt been deemed as an independent 
witness, and I agree as they were in her car, so I dont think Tesco did anything wrong in not 
exploring this further.
Ms G has said there was a supermarket employee who saw the accident, but this individual 
couldnt be traced. This is unfortunate as he may have seen what both cars were doing from 
the outside and could provide an independent witness statement, so I appreciate this will be 
frustrating for Ms G. But without this evidence and in the absence of CCTV and dashcam 
footage, I dont think Tesco were wrong to split the liability in the way that they did. 
Ive looked at the text messages exchanged between Ms G and the third party. In the first 
message that has been provided to us, I can see the third party asks Ms G whether she 
could provide her details if she still wanted to proceed without insurers. Ms G replied to say 
shed got some quotes but was happy if the third party wanted to get a cheaper quote 
elsewhere or go through the insurance company. As Ms G didnt hear back, she said she will 
go through her insurer and the third party agreed.
Based on the content of these messages, I cant see that the third party admitted liability and 
the messages arent enough to say both cars werent reversing. I can see that Tesco 
considered these messages during its investigation but as these didnt admit liability, it didnt 
do anything further. And I dont think they did anything wrong in this respect.
I understand Ms G feels Tesco have decided to believe the third party over her. But Tesco 
have to look at the claim independently, and its not that they dont believe Ms G but as Ive explained above the other party has given a different account and there isnt anything to 
support what Ms G has said. I know this complaint means a lot to Ms G especially given the 
impact on her no claims discount so I appreciate my decision will be deeply disappointing to 
her. But based on the information that is available and in the absence of CCTV and the 
independent witness, I dont think theyve been unfair in their decision to settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Tesco Underwriting Limited do not 
need to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman