DRN-1044594
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs K are unhappy with the compensation Santander UK plc (Santander) offered 
them for a £5,000 cash deposit they say went missing. Theyve raised a number of concerns 
about how Santander handled the matter.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs K went to a branch of Santander to deposit around £46,000 given to them as a 
gift. Mr S and Mrs K arranged an appointment with the branch to deposit the money and 
thought the appointment included a private room to make the deposit. On arriving, they say 
they were told the money should be deposited at the cash desk, which they were uneasy 
about. The cashier counted the money and said there was around £6,000 less than Mr S 
and Mrs K say theyd counted themselves.  Around £1,000 was found very quickly, but 
£5,000 remained missing.
Mr S and Mrs K then asked to review a CCTV recording to try to work out what had 
happened to the missing money. After initially being told this wouldnt be possible, they were 
shown the footage, which they say showed the cashier walking away from the desk with a 
number of £50 notes in her hand. Mr S and Mrs K were sure this was the missing money. Mr 
S and Mrs K say they spent hours in the branch that day trying to resolve the matter and 
were crying and shaking with shock. The following day, Mr S and Mrs K went on their 
honeymoon. They say not knowing whether theyd get back the £5,000 they say theyd 
handed over.  
During their honeymoon and for around four weeks afterwards, Mr S and Mrs K contacted 
Santander many times for updates. Around six weeks after Mr S and Mrs K visited the 
branch to make their deposit, Santander called them to say it would pay them £5,000 and 
£450 compensation. Santander said the compensation was for the worry caused to both of 
them during their honeymoon, the lack of contact with them and the time it had taken to deal 
with the matter. Mr S and Mrs K didnt think this was enough. So Santander increased their 
offer to £600.
Mr S and Mrs K were unhappy with the £600 compensation. They felt it did not reflect the 
stress they both suffered on the day of the deposit or the effect the handling of the situation 
had on their honeymoon.  They brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt that the £600 compensation was fair 
and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused and took account of the £74 theyd incurred 
in call costs whilst on honeymoon connected with the event. Mr S and Mrs K didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and whether Mr S and Mrs K should be 
awarded more compensation. 
I have also considered the impact the events would have had on Mr S and Mrs Ks 
enjoyment of their honeymoon and that the £5,000 was part of a gift of around £46,000. 
In its final response letter, Santander said it would make a payment of £5,000 to Mr S and 
Mrs K.  Santander made this offer even though its own internal investigation was still 
underway and it later paid the amount. It is not in dispute that Mr S and Mrs K have now 
received this sum.
When Mr S and Mrs K arrived at the branch, they were advised the money would need to be 
paid in over the counter. Santander has said the reason for this is that it doesnt accept 
deposits in rooms. While I can understand a room would have offered privacy, it is the case 
that deposits are usually made over the counter where cashiers have access to tills and 
systems. So I dont think the Santander were unreasonable in saying the money needed to 
be paid in over the counter. In any event, given what Mr S and Mrs K think happened to the 
£5,000, I dont think they would have been any more protected if a room had been provided. 
So I dont think the issue of the room is material for the purposes of deciding this complaint.
I understand Mr S and Mrs K want to know the outcome of Santanders internal 
investigation. But Santander is limited in what it can tell them because of data protection 
issues involving other members of staff. So for this reason, I dont think Santander has been 
unreasonable in not passing those details on. Nor do I consider the details of Santanders 
internal investigation necessary to enable me to decide the complaint. 
I know Mr S and Mrs K would like me to review the CCTV footage. But I have not reviewed it 
for three reasons. First, Santander has paid them the £5,000. Second, the extent of Mr Ss 
and Mrs Ks distress seems reasonable to me and I am persuaded by their descriptions 
without having to review the footage. Third, the events covered by the CCTV footage have 
been reviewed by the bank and as such I dont think I need to comment further on what the 
footage may or may not show. If Mr S and Mrs K have further concerns about the conduct of 
Santander in this matter, they should contact the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Its not in dispute that the business couldve done more to keep Mr S and Mrs K informed 
about whether and when theyd receive the £5,000. A number of the updates given by 
Santander appear to have been triggered by calls or emails from Mr S and Mrs K. Also, it 
appears updates werent provided by Santander when it said it would update Mr S and Mrs 
K and they were often unable to speak to someone who could update them. The complaints 
handler said theyd receive £5,000 within a few days, but they didnt, which led them to 
contact Santander more times to find out when theyd receive it. Santander says this is 
reflected in the compensation it offered and I am satisfied that it is.
I appreciate that Mr S and Mrs K are frustrated by how long its taken Santander to decide 
whether to give them £5,000. But the investigation would most likely have involved more 
than just reviewing the CCTV footage and would also have involved liaising with other areas 
of the bank and their staff, all of which takes some time. Santander says it considered the 
time taken when deciding compensation and I am satisfied that it has. 
I understand why Mrs K and Mr S would want a copy of the CCTV footage. I also accept its 
Santanders usual process not to let customers see such footage and so not give copies to 
customers. Santander couldve done more to explain to Mr S and Mrs K why it couldnt give 
them a copy of the footage, especially as theyd already been shown it against branch procedure.  If a clear explanation had been given straightaway, Mr S and Mrs K would have 
not felt the need to contact Santander a number of times about the footage. 
It is not in dispute that Mr S and Mrs K incurred £74 in call costs whilst abroad on 
honeymoon. What is in dispute is whether the cost of these calls has been included in the 
compensation. The complaints handler didnt say over the phone that the compensation 
covered the cost of the calls. The final response letter said that the costs were included, so 
Mr Ss and Mrs Ks confusion on this is understandable.   
Having looked at everything, its very clear Mr S and Mrs K feel very strongly about their 
complaint. But my role isnt to punish or fine a business  its to look at what the business 
has done to resolve the matter and say whether I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I think Santanders payment of £600 for trouble and upset to Mr S and Mrs K 
is fair and reasonable, even when taking into account the cost of the calls, the 
communication around this matter and the overall impact on Mrs K and Mr S. So I will not be 
asking Santander to do anything more. I realise Mr S and Mrs K will be disappointed by my 
decision but Im afraid this does now bring to an end what we can do to assist them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss and Mrs Ks 
complaint. I do not instruct Santander UK plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman