DRN-3045640
The complaint
Mr A complains that in 1995, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him and his late wife, Mrs A, a PPI policy 
alongside their mortgage. Mr A also brings this complaint on behalf of his late wifes estate. 
What happened
In October 1995, Mr and Mrs A took out a regular premium PPI policy with their mortgage. 
Lloyds say this was taken out at a meeting with the bank and the policy was 
recommended to Mr and Mrs A. 
The cost of the PPI policy was around £26.28 per month. If Mr and Mrs A made a 
successful claim the PPI policy would cover the total monthly benefit amount of £139.55 
plus an additional £3 for every £1000 of their initial mortgage. Lloyds say that the benefit 
was split equally so that in the event of a successful claim Mr and Mrs A wouldve 
received 50% of the benefit amount upon each of them making a successful claim. This 
would have been paid for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Mr A complained to our service. The complaint was not upheld by our investigator. Mr A 
therefore asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has 
been referred to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear that PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Given 
the time that has passed, neither Lloyds nor Mr A has a copy of the PPI paperwork Mr A 
and his wife completed to take out the mortgage. I havent seen enough to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs A werent told at the time that PPI was an optional extra product and that they 
didnt need to take it to get the mortgage.
It seems Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs A to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not 
only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr 
and Mrs A could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if 
it was to recommend PPI, that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs A for the following reasons:
 They were both eligible for the policy.
 It doesnt look like Mrs A wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in 
the terms and conditions of the policy at the time the PPI was taken out which 
couldve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. Mr A did have a 
pre-existing condition, but from what hes told us about that condition, it doesnt look 
like it affected his day-to-day living. So I think its unlikely hed have thought he would 
need to claim because of this condition. So, even if the business had made this part 
of the terms and conditions clearer, I dont think it wouldve stopped them taking out 
cover.
 At the time of the sale, Mr A said they were both entitled to some sick pay. He 
couldnt remember how much his late wife wouldve been entitled to, but recalled he 
was entitled to three months worth. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any work- 
related benefits and covered them for up to 12 months if they were unable to work due 
to accident or sickness or if they had lost their jobs. 
 Mr A said they had savings and pension policies and Mrs A had death in service 
benefit and ill health cover at the time that she could use to make their repayments. 
However, I cant see that these other policies clearly made PPI inappropriate for them. 
PPI wouldve allowed them to use their savings to pay their other household expenses 
if one or both of them was not working. The pension policy may not have been 
accessible to them given their age. I understand they were in their 40s when they took 
out the mortgage with PPI.
 There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs A at the 
time. Had they decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it at 
any time without losing out financially.
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs A in their 
circumstances, taking on a long term financial commitment and given the implications if they 
were unable to meet their repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting 
their home.  
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs A information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make an informed choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr A 
has told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the 
policy if theyd been given clearer information.  
This means Mr A and the late Mrs As estate arent worse off as a result of any wrongdoing 
by Lloyds.
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and the 
estate of Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman