DRN-2509438
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt give him documents that 
he requested.
What happened
Mr Z says he asked Halifax for documents that he needed for a court case. He says he was 
given incorrect information and that documents were not ordered despite being told they 
were. He also says documents were sent to an incorrect address and was given similar 
incorrect information following a complaint in 2012. Mr Z would like additional compensation.
Halifax accepts it didnt deal appropriately with Mr Zs request for documents and also 
accepts it sent one document to an incorrect address. It has apologised for what took place 
and paid £400 compensation. Halifax says it has now given Mr Z the required information.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Mr Z had received poor 
service from Halifax. The investigator thought the compensation paid was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view and says he would like it made clear Halifax lied to him. He 
says he lost at least £8,000 as a result of what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Halifax didnt deal appropriately with what I think ought to 
have been a simple request by Mr Z for copy documents. I have no doubt Mr Z was caused 
inconvenience in making wasted trips to his local Halifax branches and would have been 
caused distress and frustration. I also accept Mr Z would have been caused further distress 
to find out a document had been sent to an incorrect address. But Im satisfied Halifax has 
fairly apologised for what took place and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable 
compensation award of £400. I think that compensation reflects fairly the level of Halifaxs 
mistakes and that, apart from the cost of attending a branch, I dont think Mr Z suffered any 
financial loss.
I appreciate Mr Z says the mistakes may have cost him over £8,000. I make clear that I have 
not seen any evidence of such a loss, and it may be that Mr Z is referring to the amount of 
the drafts and documents that were not provided. I think Halifax has provided copies of all of 
the requested documents and I cant comment on the events of 2012 as those matters have 
been dealt with. I also appreciate that Mr Z would like it made clear that Halifax lied to him. I 
make clear to Mr Z that I have not seen any evidence that Halifax deliberately lied to him and 
I think it more likely it simply made a number of mistakes. In any event I think the important 
issue here is that Halifax has recognised it was at fault and paid what I have explained is a 
fair and reasonable compensation amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman