DRN-3161139
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited wont pay the full hourly 
rate of her chosen solicitor following a claim she made on her legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Ms K has legal expenses insurance with DAS. In December 2020 she contacted it as she 
wanted assistance to pursue a race and disability discrimination against her former 
employer. She wanted to use her own solicitor. DAS said as proceedings werent yet 
imminent Ms K would need to use one of its panel firms. When proceedings did need to be 
issued Ms K could use her own firm but the costs would be capped at the rate it paid a panel 
firm. 
Ms K didnt pursue matters further with DAS at that stage but her solicitors contacted it again 
in February 2021. By then her employment tribunal claim had been issued and they asked to 
be funded under the policy to pursue the claim. DAS accepted the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success but said it would only pay the amount it would have paid a panel firm 
(£100 an hour). 
It said Ms K could either top up that amount if she wanted to use her own solicitor, find 
another solicitor who would act for that rate or it could appoint a panel firm to progress the 
claim. It accepted some of its communication with Ms K could have been better and offered 
to pay £75 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought the policy was clear about the amount DAS would pay. And while 
he accepted DAS might have agreed to pay more in other cases that didnt mean it needed 
to do so here. He didnt think there was evidence to show a panel firm couldnt deal with the 
case and he didnt think that DAS had unreasonably restricted Ms Ks ability to choose her 
own solicitor. He also thought the £75 DAS had agreed to pay for customer service issues 
was fair. 
Ms K didnt agree. She said DAS had discretion to pay more than the amount set out in the 
policy and did so where the case was complex and required an experienced solicitor. Ms K 
thought that was the case here.  She didnt accept the rate offered by DAS gave her a 
proper choice of competent solicitors and thought it should agree to fund her own solicitor. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints about the hourly rate to be paid to a non panel solicitor our 
general approach is that this needs to be clearly and unambiguously set out either in the 
policy or in some other clearly worded document that was provided to the policyholder 
before they entered into the contract of insurance. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ks policy. These say:
How much we will pay
The most we will pay in costs and expenses is no more than the amount we would have 
paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firmis the hourly rate shown in 
your schedule. This amount may vary from time to time. 
The schedule to Ms Ks policy says:
Where a law firm is acting as an appointed representative the hourly rate is £100 plus VAT.
I appreciate the specific wording as it relates to hourly rate isnt in the policy document itself 
but in the schedule. However, I can see the definitions section defines the policy as this 
insurance document and the schedule including any endorsements. And while the reference 
to the hourly rate is on page four of an eleven page schedule it is contained within the legal 
expenses section. So I think DAS did enough to make this limitation of the policy clear to Ms 
K and I think its reasonable in principle for it to rely on this term. 
But even where the rate is clearly set out, I also need to consider whether its fair for it to 
apply in this case. Ms K should have the freedom to choose her own solicitor from the point 
that legal proceedings need to be started. However, case law has also established that 
insurers are entitled to limit the amount they pay to a non-panel solicitor provided that doing 
so doesnt limit the policyholders ability to choose their own solicitor to such an extent that it 
makes it meaningless
In this case I can understand why Ms K wants to use her own solicitors who are familiar with 
the case and have expertise in this area. And I note the points those solicitors have made 
about the complexity of the case. However, they havent said the case is so complex or 
involves an area of law so specialised that only they (or a similar firm) would be able to deal 
with it. In fact they accepted there might be firms who would take on more complex and 
challenging cases like this for £100 an hour but questioned whether they would be 
competent to do so. 
However, DAS has a large panel of firms and says its able to office a choice of different 
firms with the ability to deal with this type of case. And Ive seen evidence from a number of 
those firms who have confirmed that having reviewed the particulars of claim they would 
have been prepared to take the claim forward at a rate of £100 an hour. The firms involved 
have lawyers with expertise in employment issues and Ive not seen anything to show they 
wouldnt have been competent to progress Ms Ks claim. 
So Im not persuaded Ms Ks case is so complex that only her chosen solicitors (or other 
specialist firms charging similar rates) are qualified to take it forward. DAS has said it will pay 
£100 per hour towards Ms Ks legal fees if she continues to instruct her own solicitors, but 
that she will need to make up the difference. And given DAS have also been able to offer Ms 
K alternative legal representation for £100 per hour, Im not persuaded the hourly rate does 
render her freedom of choice meaningless in these circumstances. So I dont think DAS has 
done anything wrong in offering to pay that amount. I appreciate DAS may have agreed to pay more than the hourly rate set out in the policy 
terms in other cases but for the reasons Ive explained I dont think they need to do so here. 
In addition I think the £75 DAS agreed to pay for the impact of its customer service failings 
on Ms K was reasonable. 
My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer of £75 which I 
think is a fair way of settling this complaint. So it will need to pay that amount to Ms K if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman