DRN-3242267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
they made under their home and buildings insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Ageas for storm damage. They reported that heavy rainfall in 
May 2021 caused water to ingress and damage to flooring in their home. 
Ageas instructed a Loss Adjuster to inspect the damage. In June 2021 the LA said the 
damage had been caused by a pre-existing issue. They said there wasnt suitable drainage 
outside the property to prevent water from coming in. They recommended Mr and Mrs S 
have a drain put at the front of the property to prevent future damage. 
Ageas accepted that storm conditions had occurred. But it declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim as 
it said the storm had highlighted a pre-existing issue. Damage caused in these 
circumstances was excluded from cover under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Ageas about its decision. But Ageas didnt uphold their 
complaint. So Mr and Mrs S asked us to look at things for them. They told us that there have 
been several bouts of heavy rainfall since and no further damage has occurred. They say 
this demonstrates that it was a one off event as a result of torrential rain.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it fair for 
Ageas to decline the claim due to a lack of drainage. Mr S told us the property had been built 
circa 1780. There was no evidence of previous damage while Mr and Mrs S had lived there 
for nine years. 
The Investigator didnt recommend Ageas meet the costs of installing a drain to the front of 
the property. But she recommended Ageas meet the costs of repairs to the flooring and 
inside the home in line with the terms and conditions of dealing with a valid claim. If Mr and 
Mrs S had already paid for these repairs  subject to proof  the Investigator recommended 
Ageas reimburse them for the costs under the claim and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year. 
Ageas didnt agree. It says storm conditions didnt occur and so its decision to decline the 
claim is fair. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the Investigators recommendations. 
As Ageas didnt agree the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepted that storm conditions occurred when it arranged for a LA to inspect Mr and 
Mrs Ss home. And it accepted the same when it responded to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. So 
it isnt reasonable for Ageas to now change its position and rely on the storm conditions 
definition not being met as a reason to decline the claim.
The LAs findings were as follows:
We are unsure as to how the damage occurred; the ingress of wafer usually occurs 
following a heavy downpour of rain which suggests a poor soakaway to the external 
front and in our opinion gravel should not have been used to the front of the property 
between the sloped driveway and the external brick work, therefore, we would 
recommend an aco drain be installed along the front to prevent this from happening 
In the future. There is no insured peril we can associate to this claim.
The heavy downpour of rain has merely highlighted a pre-existing problem.
I dont think it reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim for the reasons given by the LA. The 
LA isnt sure of how the damage occurred. And their recommendation involve works that 
would not have been a regulation for the property when it was built. I dont think its Ageas 
responsibility to pay for the recommended drainage works  which I understand Mr and Mrs 
S intends to arrange privately as a preventative measure  as this may amount to 
betterment. But I think a reasonable outcome is for Ageas to meet the claim for storm 
damage to the home under the remaining terms and conditions. 
If Mr and Mrs S have already paid for repairs, I think Ageas should reimburse them for the 
costs (subject to proof) and pay interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. Ageas is 
entitled to deduct the excess due under the claim in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Meet Mr and Mrs Ss claim for storm damage to their property - excluding the 
costs to add new drainage - in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
If applicable, reimburse them for the reasonable costs of repairs to their home 
for incident related damage subject to proof.
If applicable, pay interest on the reimbursed amount at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year from the date Mr and Mrs S paid to the date Ageas reimburses 
them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman