DRN-3576255
The complaint
Mr F complains about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and their failure to process a refund he 
requested via a chargeback claim.
Mr F has been represented by Mrs F during the complaint. For ease of reference, I have 
referred to the comments made, and actions taken, by both Mr F and Mrs F as Mr F 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr F held a current account with BOS. On 30 August 2019, Mr F paid £397 to a company 
who Ill refer to as Q, for the processing of a divorce. But Mr F was unhappy with the 
service Q provided and asked that they refund him the payment he made. Q refused to do 
so and because of this, in October 2020, Mr F attempted to raise a chargeback with BOS to 
secure a refund instead.
But BOS didnt process the chargeback, or refund Mr F the payment he made, due to the 
length of time that had elapsed since the transaction had been completed. Mr F was 
unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F didnt think BOS acted fairly when not processing his chargeback claim. Nor did he 
think it was reasonable that he was left without the payment he made to Q. He didnt think 
the time limits set to raise a chargeback were fair, especially during COVID, and he didnt 
think it was fair to penalise him for the delays created by Q. So, he thought BOS should 
refund him the payment hed made to Q, and then seek to reclaim this from Q directly. And 
he thought he should be compensated for the upset hed been caused.
BOS initially didnt respond within the 8-week time period they are provided. And when they 
did respond, they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint as they thought theyd acted fairly, based 
on the time limits set for a chargeback to be raised. Mr F was unhappy with this response, so 
he asked our service to continue with its investigator.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the upset Mr 
F had been caused, and the financial loss hed suffered as hed need to appoint a new 
solicitor and pay additional costs for this. But they didnt think BOS had acted unfairly as Mr 
F had attempted to raise a chargeback outside of the 120-day time limit set by the card 
issuers scheme rules, which BOS were unable to alter. So, they didnt think BOS needed to 
do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree. He didnt think imposing the time limit of the chargeback was fair, as he 
didnt think he was able to raise the chargeback any sooner than he did due to the delays 
created by Q throughout the service they provided, as well as in response to his complaint. 
Mr F thought allowances should be made for the fact COVID, and the restrictions that came 
with it, were in place at the time as well as consideration given to the delay in BOS 
responding to his complaint and engaging with our service. As Mr F didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr F. I appreciate Mr F has 
been left severely unhappy with the service he received from Q. And so, I can understand 
why he believes he should be refunded the payment he made to them initially. I can also 
understand why, when Q refused to refund Mr F this amount, Mr F would explore other 
avenues for a refund, including raising a chargeback with BOS. And I can appreciate his 
unhappiness when he was told a chargeback couldnt be raised due to the length of time it 
had been since he made the payment.
But for me to say BOS have acted unfairly, and so should refund Mr F the payment he made 
to Q, Id need to be satisfied they refused the chargeback in line with the scheme rules set 
by the card issuer. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair for BOS to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mr F is unhappy with the service he 
received from Q, and he feels he should be compensated for the upset this caused. But BOS 
arent responsible for the actions of Q and so, I havent thought about this any further. My 
decision has focused solely on BOS actions regarding what they are responsible for which in 
this situation is the processing of the chargeback.
Im also aware Mr F is unhappy with the way BOS handled his complaint and specifically, the 
amount of time it took them to issue a response and engage with our service. But these 
issues relate to BOS complaint handling, which is an unregulated activity. And because of 
this, they fall outside of our services jurisdiction and Im unable to consider these further or 
allow them to influence the decision Ive reached.
Its important to note that the timescales included within the chargeback process as set by 
the card issuer, such as VISA or Mastercard. They arent set by the banks themselves, such 
as BOS. And because of this, BOS wouldnt have been able to amend these timescales and 
allow claims brought to them late to be considered.
Ive seen both card issuers state that a chargeback claim must be brought within 120 days 
of the disputed transaction. So, Mr F wouldve needed to have raised his chargeback claim 
with BOS no later than 120 days after he paid Q on 30 August 2019. But Mr F didnt attempt 
to raise a chargeback until over a year later. So, Im satisfied that Mr Fs chargeback claim 
fell outside of the time limit set by the card issuer and so, I think BOS acted in line with the 
scheme rules when deciding a refund couldnt be processed.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think BOS acted fairly when 
doing so. And I appreciate Mr F doesnt think BOS have, as he doesnt think he had any way 
of raising his chargeback claim earlier due to the delays created by Q when he initially 
approached them for a refund directly. As well as the impact COVID restrictions had on 
communication with companies during that time.
But I dont think these factors mean BOS decision to refuse the refund was unfair. As Ive already stated, BOS arent responsible for the actions of Q. So, while I appreciate Q may 
have created delays when speaking to Mr F about his concerns, or providing their service in 
general, I dont think this should mean BOS should then process a refund via a chargeback 
claim outside of the scheme rules set by the card issuer.
And although I do appreciate the COVID-19 pandemic was ongoing at the time, and this no 
doubt wouldve created delays and made things more difficult for Mr F, the time limits set by 
the card issuers in their scheme rules remained the same during this time. And as Ive 
explained already, BOS dont have the ability to deviate from, or alter, these time limits.
So, while I do understand Mr Fs frustrations, and I appreciate the financial impact of being 
without the payment he made to Q, I dont think I can say BOS have acted unfairly or done 
anything wrong. Because of this, I dont think BOS need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. And I recognise Q arent a regulated 
busines so he may feel as though he has no other avenue to pursue a refund. But Mr F 
should still be able to seek legal advice regarding other methods of reclaiming a refund that 
he may have available to him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman