DRN-2721259
The complaint
Mr I complains that AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP) declined a claim and then cancelled his 
motor warranty policy after his vehicle suffered a catastrophic engine failure.  
  
What happened
Mr I purchased a motor warranty on 26 June 2020 that went live on 27 July 2020. Mr I says 
that in August 2020 he tried to start his car and it wouldnt start. The diagnosis was a 
catastrophic engine failure, so he submitted a claim on his motor warranty. 
AWP inspected Mr Is vehicle and then cancelled his policy. It said that Mr Is vehicle hadnt 
been serviced in line with the manufacturers guidelines. AWP later added that it had 
evidence that the vehicle had been static for 68 days, so hadnt been moved since the policy 
started and it said the damage being claimed for, pre-dated the policy inception. AWP also 
says that Mr I misrepresented the vehicle mileage when he took the policy out and voided 
his policy. 
Mr I disputed this. He provided AWP with evidence of a recent service, and evidence his 
vehicle had been recently driven. He also explained the inconsistent mileage. But AWP 
didnt amend its position, so Mr I referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed Mr Is complaint and recommended it be upheld. The investigator 
said that the policy shouldnt have been voided and recommended that AWP should now 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
However, AWP didnt agree, and it submitted some further supporting evidence in the form 
of partial data report screenshots. We contacted AWP for further clarification on the 
evidence provided, and we requested some further specific evidence that was mentioned in 
the submissions but was never received in the submitted business file. However, after a 
number of contacts with AWP no further evidence has been provided, so I will go ahead and 
issue a final decision based on the evidence provided to date.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Misrepresentation
Mr I has submitted a claim on his Motor Warranty policy, following a catastrophic engine 
failure. AWP has advised that Mr I misrepresented when he took out the policy, and its 
opted to void the policy and refund the premiums. This is one of the remedies set out under 
CIDRA when a consumer misrepresents.  
Ive looked at The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This law says a consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. It says if a consumer doesnt do this, 
the insurer can take certain actions as long as the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. 
Ive looked into whether I think Mr I took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, 
whether the misrepresentation was qualifying and whether the action AWP has taken is in 
line with CIDRA.
CIDRA says a consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to 
an insurer. AWP says Mr I didnt take reasonable care when he declared his service history 
and mileage. AWP says that the service history of the vehicle is different to what Mr I initially 
disclosed. Mr I declared a full service history whilst AWP say this isnt correct. AWP also 
says that Mr I declared an incorrect mileage when he took the policy out. AWP question the 
recent mileage and its consistency with what was declared at the beginning. But Mr I says 
this is also correct. 
Further to this AWP has stated that the fault being claimed for existed before the policy was 
taken out, and there is no cover available. It says its clear from the vehicle data that a 
service was due, and faults are showing. AWP has provided data obtained from the vehicle 
to support its stance. It says the vehicle has no recorded service since May 2018 and it 
provided an energy data readout which it has interpreted to say that the vehicle had been 
static for 68 days at the time of claim.
But Mr I refutes AWPs claims. Hes provided a service receipt from a local garage to show 
that the car did receive an interim service and MOT on 25 October 2019. Ive listened to the 
call recording between Mr I and the inspecting garage. The agent on the call confirms a 
major service in May 2018, and he also confirms that he is aware of the interim service in 
October 2019, although it is noted this service is not recorded on the dealership network 
database. However, it is also noted that the dealership mainframe isnt showing any services 
for this vehicle apart from the one in May 2018. The agent unfortunately has no explanation 
for this, but he thinks the data on the vehicles idrive has been deleted. But having seen a 
screenshot of the full-service book history Im satisfied that Mr I presented this vehicles 
service history accurately and that the service in October 2019 took place. As there was no 
misrepresentation, the remedies provided by CIDRA dont apply. 
In terms of the inconsistent mileage Mr I says the vehicle was used infrequently as it was a 
second car. He says it was hardly used at all in the first six months of 2020 due to the 
government-imposed lockdown, as there were no trips to school or the local shops. He says 
that the vehicle did however have increased usage after June 2020 as he was involved in a 
collision whilst driving his main vehicle. He says he began using this second vehicle more 
frequently at this time. Hes provided evidence of this collision and subsequent claim. He 
says this would explain the initial low mileage in 2020, and then the sudden spike. And 
having reviewed all the evidence available Im satisfied with the explanation Mr I has 
provided in respect of the spike in mileage on this vehicle. 
AWP also states that the incorrect mileage was presented at inception. But I cant find any 
evidence of this. And having seen the full-service history, I cant see any issues with the 
mileage consistency. So, Im satisfied theres no anomalies here. Again, as there was no 
misrepresentation the remedies provided under CIDRA dont apply. 
Vehicle movement during the policy term
In terms of the movement of the vehicle over the lifetime of the warranty, the evidence 
provided is conflicting. In the telephone call between the garage and Mr I, the agent from the garage says the vehicle hasnt been started since before the warranty was taken out. He 
says the system shows that the engine fault pre-dates the policy inception. AWP has also 
supplied a screen shot of an energy data reading from the vehicle which shows a long 
immobilisation period was determined in the energy history memory. It says the evaluation 
period for the reading was 74 days. It says the distance travelled in that time was 357km and 
the number of journeys was 41. But the key is that the vehicle was immobile for 68 days. 
AWP says As you will see we confirmed the vehicle was static to the customer for 68 days, 
meaning the vehicle attending the retailer on the 02/09/2020 on and the policy 
commencement date of 26/07/2020 means the policy was only live for 38 days. This means 
the fault was pre-dating the warranty.
Mr I says this is not true. Hes provided evidence that the vehicle was driven on 7 August 
2020, which is within the 38-day timeframe. Hes provided an invoice to show he attended a 
garage to have a tyre on the car changed. Weve spoken to the garage who confirm that Mr I 
did have a tyre replaced and would definitely have had to drive in to get this tyre replaced. 
So, this would indicate that the car was being driven in August 2020 (within the period of 
cover) and hadnt suffered a catastrophic engine failure at this point.
So, on one hand we have verbal confirmation that the vehicle was being driven in August 
2020, but on the other we have data obtained from the vehicle itself which says it wasnt. 
There are two pages of data that are important. On the first page is the Fasta Data printout 
provided in September 2020. This just confirms the mileage and nothing more. On the same 
page AWP has pasted in two further screen shots, one with service information, and another 
with error codes. The second important piece of evidence is a screen print from the vehicles 
diagnosis system for energy history.
The Fasta Data screen shot doesnt tell us anything. It just confirms the vehicle mileage. 
Further to this the servicing screenshot and error codes dont tell us anything either, as 
theyre clearly wrong. The vehicle has been serviced but the onboard data hasnt been 
updated as it was serviced outside the system, and the data is only ever useful if recorded 
correctly. Further to this, the agent in the telephone call has admitted that all services on the 
vehicles idrive system have been deleted. So, I cant trust this evidence to be correct. 
The energy history screen shot has no date, nor does it give any indication of when this 
immobilisation occurred. All it shows is that there was a period of 68 days when the car was 
immobile. It doesnt show if they were consecutive or intermittent static days. Further to this 
there are 41 journeys recorded in that 74-day period, with a mileage of 357km. So, Im not 
even sure how accurate this information can be, unless the 41 separate journeys were 
carried out over a six-day period.
I contacted the vehicle manufacturer to find out more about this report. It advised that the 
energy history is part of a much larger report. It advised that this complete report would 
provide the dates for us in relation to the energy history, and it would also tell us a whole lot 
more. In particular it would confirm the ignition usage and the dates. It would also give us a 
clear indication of when the catastrophic engine failure happened, as it would log all sudden 
drops in oil pressure (which would likely tell us when the engine failure actually happened).
I asked AWP to provide the full report. I also asked it to confirm the data that was discussed 
in the call between Mr I and the garage. However, after four weeks and several chaser 
emails and telephone calls, AWP hasnt provided me with any further evidence to support its 
cancellation. And without the full reports theres not enough in the screen shots for me to say 
that Mr Is vehicle wasnt being used during the time the policy was live when considered in 
line with all the other circumstances and evidence available. Added to this, the fact that a 
sizeable chunk of data has been verified as deleted from the vehicles idrive and the fact the 
service history and fault codes are clearly not correct means I cant rely on what I have. Conclusion
So, based on what Ive seen on file, Mr I didnt misrepresent the vehicles service history or 
mileage data at inception. As there was no misrepresentation of these facts, CIDRA and its 
remedies dont apply. Further to this theres not enough supporting evidence to demonstrate 
that Mr Is vehicle had already experienced a catastrophic engine failure before the policy 
was taken out. Im more persuaded by Mr Is testimony about what happened, as it seems to 
fit in better with the evidence provided. So as theres not enough evidence to show that the 
policy shouldve been voided, AWP now needs to reconsider this claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im also recommending that AWP pays Mr I 
£200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered throughout the lifetime 
of this claim.
As the vehicle has not been stripped down or diagnosed, I cant comment on the claim itself. 
However, if the claim is deemed covered under this policy by AWP, any claim payment 
made should include all diagnostic costs. But AWP is entitled to deduct the refunded 
premium amount from any claim amount it ends up paying.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require AWP Assistance UK Ltd to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If the claim is deemed valid and is paid, AWP should include all 
diagnostic costs. But it can deduct the premiums its refunded to Mr I from any settlement it 
pays. AWP Assistance UK Ltd should also pay Mr I £200 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman