DRN-2509423
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
 This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out at a meeting in February 1992 to protect Mr 
and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name and gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI for Mr B to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check it was suitable 
for them. And it had to give them enough clear information so they could make an informed
decision whether or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because Mr B worked outside the UK and this policy did not cover unemployment 
arising whilst outside the UK for a period intended to be of more than 30 days duration. So it 
was likely that Mr B would not have been able to claim on the policy when he needed to, and 
when he expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander considered this when it made its
recommendation, or that it made this clear to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr B supplied his income tax certificate from the country he worked in for the period April 
1991 to March 1992 to evidence his overseas employment. The bank argues that this 
doesnt show he was working there at the exact time of the sale; it says it would need to see 
a copy of his employment contract. Mr B cant provide this and whilst I accept it would have 
been more conclusive, its not unreasonable he no longer has this documentation given how 
long ago the sale was. 
The bank argues it records show Mr B had been resident at a UK address for 18 years in 
1998. But this doesnt mean he couldnt have worked overseas for periods of time during 
those years. Santander says whilst it agrees Mr B may have been employed overseas at 
some point between April 1991 and March 1992, he had left that role before the PPI was 
taken out. But I dont think it has evidence to support this conclusion. I agree that the tax 
certificate doesnt show the exact dates Mr B was working overseas, but he has said it was 
until 1993. And from the tax certificate I think its reasonable to conclude that its most likely it 
was for a period of more than 30 days prior to the time of the sale. So I think understanding 
the relevant exclusion would have mattered to him.
This means I think its likely Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the PPI for Mr B if theyd 
been better advised and informed.
It follows I think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the
value of the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any
commission already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Santander UK PLC must put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman