DRN-3593831
The complaint
Mr M acquired a used car in October 2021, by means of a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc.  He complains that the car was misrepresented to him. He wants 
Vauxhall to unwind his agreement, and to agree that the car should be rejected.  
What happened
The car Mr M acquired was around 30 months old at the point of supply. It was advertised as 
having travelled just under 12,000 miles. 
Mr M said that, when he took his car for an MOT test in March 2022, he noticed the service 
booklet recorded that it had travelled a little over 14,000 miles at the point of supply (and not 
just under 12,000 miles, as advertised). He complained to Vauxhall, and investigation 
showed that the service booklet mileage was correct.
The supplying dealership told Vauxhall that the mileage advertised was caused by an 
administrative error, for which it offered to compensate Mr M. But the dealer pointed out that 
the car was not faulty. For these reasons, Vauxhall did not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M then referred his complaint to us. He told us that he was looking to Vauxhall to put 
things right, and that he was not considering the dealers offer to compensate him. 
Our investigator said:
Vauxhall was just as responsible as the dealer for ensuring that Mr M received 
correct information, before he agreed to acquire the car
So, the car being without faults, and the mileage discrepancy being an administrative 
error, were insufficient reasons to reject his complaint
Misrepresentation required two things to happen, both of which must have occurred  
oa false statement to have been made (wrong mileage advertised)
othe false statement to have induced Mr M into agreeing to acquire 
Although it was clear that a false statement had been made, our investigator did not think 
that this statement induced Mr M to enter into his conditional sale agreement. In other words, 
our investigator thought that Mr M would still have entered into his agreement, if he had 
been told the correct mileage before he agreed to acquire the car
Our investigator noted that the difference between the correct and advertised figures was 
about 2,500 miles, which he felt was a very small portion of the distance generally travelled 
by cars. 
Our investigator used motor trade guides to calculate the difference in price that should have 
been charged for Mr Ms car, if it had been advertised with its correct mileage  this 
difference was estimated to be between £150 and £200.   
So, our investigators view was that only one of the two things, required for 
misrepresentation to happen, occurred when Mr M acquired his car. This meant our 
investigator concluded that:
Misrepresentation did not happen, when Mr M acquired his car
As a consequence, rejection of the car would not be appropriate
 
But our investigators view was also that Vauxhall should not have rejected Mr Ms 
complaint. In order to put things right and to resolve this complaint, our investigator 
concluded that Vauxhall should pay compensation of £200 to Mr M, to reflect the difference 
in price that should have been charged for his car.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators conclusions, and so this complaint was referred for 
review by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Vauxhall has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have been supplied. This means a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances. But there 
are limits to these responsibilities. In particular, matters complained about must be present 
or developing at the point of supply. 
We determine complaints by reference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the case. We tell a business (Vauxhall, in this case) to put things right, if its actions made a 
difference and a consumer (Mr M, in this case) lost out.  
When considering what should be done to put things right, our guiding principle is putting 
consumers back into the position they would be in, if the business had not done something 
wrong.
Mr M acquired his car in October 2021, and he did not complain to Vauxhall until March 
2022. But his complaint is clearly about a matter present at the point of supply. So, I am 
considering his complaint in the same way as I would do, if it had been made immediately or 
very soon after the point of supply.
I agree with our investigator and Mr M that his car did not fully correspond to its description. 
So, I need to consider how Mr M lost out as a result of this difference (the advertised 
incorrect mileage), and what should be done to put things right.
Misrepresentation is a legal term with a specific meaning. Our investigator explained the 
term to Mr M. And our investigator concluded that misrepresentation had not happened, 
when Mr M acquired his car. Consequently, our investigator also concluded that rejection of 
Mr Ms car would not be appropriate to put things right. 
For the same reasons as our investigator, I agree with these conclusions. On the balance of 
probabilities, I think Mr M would still have acquired the car, if its correct mileage had been 
advertised. And Mr M accepted that he might have done so, in a July 2022 email he sent to 
our investigator.  Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Mr M lost out on the price at which he acquired his car, 
because of the incorrect mileage. And I think the way in which our investigator estimated the 
extent of this loss was appropriate. My conclusion is that compensation of £200 to put things 
right for Mr M is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order Vauxhall Finance plc to pay compensation of £200 to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman