DRN-4008994
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
MBFS.
The agreement ended in September 2022. The car was collected and inspected. MBFS 
asked Mr S to pay charges for damage which it said went beyond acceptable wear and tear.
Mr S disputed the charges, MBFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said the charges had been 
correctly applied.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that the damage 
was outside of acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the relevant vehicle returns 
standards.
Mr S disagreed so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the hire agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
MBFS provided Mr S with vehicle returns standards at the start of the agreement and again 
shortly before the agreement ended. The vehicle returns standards set out what is 
considered acceptable wear and tear and states that any damage which goes beyond 
acceptable wear and tear will be chargeable.
Ive looked at the inspection report and the photos. Ive also looked at the vehicle returns 
standards.
Ive also looked at the photos provided by Mr S. However, these photos arent sufficiently 
detailed for me to assess whether the damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. So 
my primary focus has been on the inspection report and photos.
Having reviewed everything, I agree that the damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear 
in accordance with the vehicle returns standards. Ill explain why.
Mr S hasnt disputed the charges for the front grille, nearside front seat, offside front door 
handle and rear bumper, so I wont comment on these items of damage.
Mr S was charged for chips on the front bonnet, front bumper and nearside front door. The 
vehicle returns standards say that paint chips 8mm long and less in diameter with a 
maximum of 4 per panel, 6 per door edge and 8 on any forward facing panel are acceptable. 
Based on what Ive seen, the chips on the bonnet, bumper and front door exceed what is 
considered acceptable because there are multiple chips. Im therefore satisfied that the 
damage charges have been correctly applied.
Mr S has been charged for scratches on the bodywork of the car. The vehicle returns 
standards say that scratches 25mm or less, maximum 4 per panel are acceptable. Based on 
what Ive seen, the scratches exceed what is considered acceptable. Im therefore satisfied 
that the damage charges have been correctly applied.
Mr S has been charged for a dent in the offside rear door. The vehicle returns standards say 
that dents of 15mm or less are acceptable. Based on what Ive seen, the dent exceeds 
15mm. Im therefore satisfied that the damage charges have been correctly applied.
Mr S raised specific concerns about the charges for damage to the boot. So, Ive looked at 
the photos of the damage to the boot. I appreciate that Mr S took additional steps to try and 
protect this area with rubber flooring and a roof cover. However, its fair to say that there are 
a significant number of chips and scratches on this part of the car. Ive had regard to the 
vehicle returns standards and Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond what is considered 
acceptable. The vehicle returns standards were provided to Mr S at the outset and prior to 
the end of the hire agreement, so he would have been aware of what was considered to be 
acceptable damage and what wasnt. And it was open to Mr S to arrange for those areas of 
damage to be repaired before handing the car back at the end of the agreement if he had 
wanted to.
Mr S is unhappy because he was told by the person who inspected the car that the car 
would go straight to auction without being repaired. Mr S has queried why MBFS has 
charged for damage in these circumstances. I dont know whether any repairs were carried 
out to the car or not. But even if no repairs were carried out, MBFS is still contractually 
entitled to charge for the damage. I think its reasonable to charge for the damage because 
its likely that any damage would have reduced the value of the car at auction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman