DRN-4274457
The complaint
Mrs C and Mrs K complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont refund a payment of £3,355 Mrs 
K made on her debit card from their joint account for a funeral plan. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs K used her debit card to pay for funeral plan for herself. In March 2022 the 
funeral company she had purchased her plan from were placed into administration. Mrs C 
contacted Clydesdale to raise a chargeback on 6 April 2022.
Mrs C was advised by Clydesdale that they couldnt raise a chargeback for her as she was 
out of time for them to raise a claim as this needed to be done within 540 days. They said 
that they had to follow the rules, regulations and timescales set by her card provider 
Mastercard, and as 1,099 days had passed since the date of the transaction she didnt have 
any chargeback rights, so they couldnt raise a dispute for her.
Mrs K raised a complaint about Clydesdale not raising a chargeback and about the level of 
service shed received when trying to log her complaint. She told them shed spent hours on 
the phone being passed to different departments, only for calls to then be disconnected.
Clydesdale upheld Mrs Ks complaint about the level of service shed received and made a 
payment of £75 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. But they didnt uphold 
her complaint about their failure to raise a chargeback as this hadnt been raised until April 
2022, which was outside the timeframe set by Mastercard in their chargeback rules.
When Mrs K raised her complaint she said shed contacted Clydesdale within the timescale 
theyd given her. In their final response letter Clydesdale said theyd carried out a full search 
for any calls from 2019 to date, using her details and those of the joint account holder, but 
didnt find any record that either she or Mrs C had contacted them. And their disputes team 
also carried out a search and found no record of a dispute being raised before April 2022. So 
they maintained that they were correct when they told her it was too late to raise a 
chargeback.
Mrs C and Mrs K werent happy with the response received from Clydesdale and complained 
to us. Our investigator considered the case and asked Clydesdale to provide the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules theyd relied on when saying the chargeback had been raised too 
late, and why they were saying the chargeback had been made out of time, when the service 
Mrs K had paid for hadnt been provided.
Clydesdale provided a copy of the relevant chargeback rules. They also said that the 120-
day rule applies to the service date, not the transaction date. So in this case the 120 days 
started from when Mrs C and Mrs K became aware that the service, the funeral plan, 
wouldnt be provided, as the company it was purchased from had gone into administration. 
But there was also a 540-day cut-off date from the transaction date, regardless of when the 
service was to be provided. And Mrs C and Mrs Ks chargeback claim was definitely out of 
time based on the 540-day rule.
Our investigator considered all the information the parties had provided but didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said chargeback is a voluntary scheme and the rules are written by the card 
provider. So Clydesdale had no choice but to apply the rules as they are written. 
The scheme rules provide an absolute cut off of 540 days after the initial transaction date for 
the chargeback to be made.  And any chargeback request made after this timescale wont 
succeed. 
In this case the 540 days started when the funeral plan was purchased in April 2019. And 
when the chargeback request was made in April 2022 this was too late to be considered. As 
Clydesdale had considered the chargeback request in line with the Mastercard scheme rules 
our investigator said they hadnt done anything wrong, so she didnt ask them to do anything.
Mrs C and Mrs K responded to our investigators opinion saying theyd been told that in 
exceptional circumstances the 540-day period for bring a chargeback claim could be 
extended.
Our investigator wrote to them on 26 July 2023 explaining that there was nothing further 
Clydesdale could do in this case as theyd applied the relevant chargeback scheme rules 
correctly.
Mrs C and Mrs K werent happy with our investigators opinion so the case has now come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is not a legal right and theres no requirement for Clydesdale to present a 
chargeback. And I dont think its unreasonable not to pursue a chargeback where theres no 
prospect of success. The chargeback rules are set out by the particular card scheme  in 
this case Mastercard. And Clydesdale had no choice but to apply the scheme rules.
Timescales for submitting a chargeback are quite strict. Where the goods or services do not 
have a specified delivery date and have not been provided, Mastercard allow 120 days from 
the date of the transaction, or 120 days from the date on which the consumer knew there 
was a problem with a service that has yet to be provided.
In this case Mrs C and Mrs K first knew the funeral plan wouldnt be provided in March 2022, 
when they received notification that the business providing the plan had gone into 
administration. And they contacted Clydesdale on 6 April 2022, so this was within the 120 
days the rules provide for. 
But the scheme rules also provide a maximum of 540 days from the date of the transaction 
for a chargeback to be raised. And the 540 days is calculated from the date of the 
transaction. In this case that is when the funeral plan was purchased in April 2019. 
When Mrs C and Mrs K contacted Clydesdale to raise a chargeback on 6 April 2022 they 
were told the time limit of 540 days had passed, so a chargeback couldnt be raised. And as 
Clydesdale have to follow the scheme rules, while I have every sympathy for Mrs C and Mrs 
K and the situation they find themselves in, I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong. The 
chargeback claim was out of time and Mrs C and Mrs K were given the correct advice about 
this.And the chargeback rules dont include any provision for the timescales to be extended in 
exceptional circumstances, so this isnt something I can ask Clydesdale to consider. 
Ive considered the level of service Clydesdale provided. Theyve acknowledged that this fell 
short of what theyd expect and I think the compensation of £75 theyve offered is 
appropriate. So I wont be asking them to do anything more
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs C and Mrs Ks 
complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman