DRN-3181974
The complaint
Mr E complains Nationwide Building Society declined his application for an overdraft on the 
current account he holds with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Our Service doesnt have the power to tell building societies or banks who they 
should and shouldnt give overdrafts to. However, we can make findings on whether 
a business has treated its customer fairly. To do that in this case, Ive investigated 
whether a customer, with similar circumstances to Mr Es, would have been treated 
the same way regarding an application for an overdraft.
Before giving customers overdrafts, businesses like Nationwide, are expected to take 
steps to ensure the lending is affordable. Its for individual businesses to decide what 
checks they consider are necessary, and what weight to place on the information 
they receive. In this case, Nationwide considered the information provided in Mr Es 
application and that held on his credit report.
Ive noted what Mr E has told us about him having an excellent credit history. But this 
isnt the only thing Nationwide considered when reviewing his application.
The information in Mr Es application and credit report were considered against 
Nationwides lending criteria. The scoring this received meant Mr E wasnt eligible for 
an overdraft at that time. A business lending criteria is commercially sensitive. This 
means I cant share the specific details of why Mr E wasnt eligible for an overdraft. 
However, I have reviewed the scoring and Im satisfied Nationwide considered Mr Es 
application for an overdraft in the same way as any other customer with similar 
circumstances. Because of this, I dont consider Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when they declined Mr Es overdraft application.
Ive not seen anything (or heard anything in the recordings of Mr Es phone 
conversations with Nationwide) that demonstrates Nationwide ever told Mr E, or 
implied, it was guaranteed his account would have an overdraft facility. Im satisfied 
Nationwide sufficiently explained why Mr Es application for an overdraft had been 
declined  and that he could reapply for one in six months time. They also explained 
it wasnt guaranteed that future applications for an overdraft would be agreed. 
Nationwide explained these points on multiple occasions, and this is what I would 
have expected them to do. 
As mentioned above, we cant tell Nationwide what information they should consider 
when deciding who to give an overdraft facility. Im also satisfied they reviewed 
Mr Es application fairly, and clearly explained the options available to him. Because 
of this, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further to put things right.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Es frustration, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman