DRN-2589700
The complaint
 Mr R complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) hasnt settled his motor insurance claim fairly.
References to QIC include agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr R is unhappy with the settlement QIC offered for his car, which was deemed a 
total loss following an accident. In line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
QIC is expected to pay out its market value  defined as the cost of replacing your 
vehicle with another of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as at the 
time of the loss or damage, up to the value stated in your policy schedule.
I appreciate Mr R feels QIC has undervalued his car at £3,355. He says he bought it 
(second hand) for around £4,000 shortly before the accident. And hes found private 
sellers advertising the car for more than QIC has offered. But we generally find the 
valuations from motor trade guides more persuasive, as theyre based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely selling prices. So these hold more weight that the 
adverts Mr R has found  which also dont show the actual sale prices achieved. 
There is often room for negotiation in advertised prices. Both we and QIC have 
checked the motor guides, and these produce in-line or lower valuations for Mr Rs 
car (taking into account its age and mileage etc.) than the amount QIC has offered. 
So Im satisfied its valuation is fair. 
Whilst Mr R says the valuation doesnt account for his time and effort in finding a 
replacement car, nor for local variations, Im not persuaded this is a reasonable 
interpretation of what hes insured for. The policy only covers the market value of the 
car itself. And the motor guides we rely on already take into account nationwide 
research. I therefore wouldnt reasonably expect QIC to pay out more on top of the 
market value, which Ive found its calculated fairly, for Mr Rs time and effort sourcing 
a replacement. 
I understand Mr R has decided against retaining the car following the total loss 
settlement. But as he initially complained about the salvage deduction for retaining 
the car, Ill address this point. Im satisfied QIC would be within its rights to deduct 
30% of the pre-accident value from the settlement if Mr R kept the car. The policy 
terms explain QIC will normally retain the car if settling a total loss claim, as is 
common across motor insurance. And Ive seen evidence that the deduction simply 
reflects what QIC would have received for disposing of the salvage. I consider this 
fair. The starting point under the terms is that QIC can keep the car in these 
circumstances. So it shouldnt lose out if it instead allows Mr R to keep the car.
A £150 excess was also deducted from the settlement. But our investigator wasnt 
satisfied this was correct, as the policy documentation provided suggests the excess 
was actually £100. QIC has now accepted this and agreed to refund £50. I consider 
that fair, as it seems more likely the excess was £100. But Im not persuaded it 
should waive the whole excess, as Mr R has suggested. Under the contract, the 
excess is the amount hes agreed to pay himself in the event of a claim. So QIC isnt 
liable for this.
Im therefore satisfied that QIC Europe Ltd has now made a fair offer to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that QIC Europe Ltd should pay Mr R £50, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman