DRN-2087342
The complaint
Mr B complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money charged an annual fee 
on his new credit card before he was able to activate and use it.  
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Virgin Money on 18 February 2020 and his account 
opened on 28 February 2020. Virgin Money sent the credit card to Mr Bs home address and 
it most likely arrived sometime in early March 2020. 
Mr B travelled abroad in February 2020 and intended to collect the card when he returned to 
the UK. However, he was unexpectedly unable to return because of international travel 
restrictions put in place as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. This meant Mr B wasnt 
able to pick the card up from his home and so wasnt able to activate or use it. 
Virgin Money applied an annual fee of £160 to Mr Bs credit card account on 5 April 2020. 
Mr B contacted Virgin Money on 6 April and said he understood a fee was payable but 
queried why the fee was applied when he is unable to use his card. He was told the fee 
could be refunded if he closed his credit card account. 
Mr B complained to Virgin Money. It responded to his complaint in June 2020. It said the 
annual fee was applied in line with the terms of Mr Bs credit agreement. Virgin Money 
reiterated that if Mr B wanted the annual fee refunded, he would need to close his account.
Virgin Money also said Mr B had contacted it in April and May 2020 to discuss the fee. It told 
him then that it would look into his concerns and get back to him, but it didnt do this on 
either occasion. And so it upheld this part of Mr Bs complaint. It removed the two late fee 
charges of £9 each that had been applied to his account in May and June 2020, as well as 
interest totalling £5.60. Virgin Money also credited £50 to Mr Bs account. It said Mr Bs 
account was still in arrears and so he would need to make a payment of £110 as soon as 
possible. 
Mr B was unhappy with Virgin Moneys response and complained to this service in June 
2020. He said he understands an annual fee will apply to his account, but he doesnt think it 
was fair to apply this before the card was activated. He said hes reluctant to cancel the 
credit card in case this has a detrimental effect on his credit rating. Mr B feels these are 
exceptional circumstances and Virgin Money should only charge the annual fee when hes in 
a position to use the card.
Virgin Money contacted Mr B in July 2020 and refunded £40 of his annual fee in that month, 
as he wasnt able to take advantage of his Flying Club rewards in the usual way. 
Virgin Money issued another final response letter in July 2020, after Mr B complained about 
the impact this was having on his credit report. Virgin Money said it told Mr B late payment 
charges could be applied to his account and credit reference agencies would be informed if 
he didnt make payments. It said its obliged to report accurate information about the 
payment history of all its customers. It let Mr B know that his account was in arrears by £70 
and he would need to pay this as soon as possible. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt ask Virgin Money to take any further 
action. He said the terms and conditions of the credit agreement entitle Virgin Money to 
apply the fee as soon as the card is approved.  Our investigator said Virgin Money already 
refunded a total of £90, not including refunded interest and late fees, and this equates to 
almost seven months of the annual card fee. He said, additionally, the removal of late fees 
and charges should be reflected in Mr Bs credit rating for the relevant months.
Mr B responded and said the £50 refunded by Virgin Money was because of their lack of 
communication. He said if the annual fee is programmed then it can be unprogrammed. Mr B 
felt Virgin Money should be more flexible, given the coronavirus situation. 
As Mr B didnt agree with what our investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Mr B accepts that, in normal circumstances, it would have been fair for Virgin Money to apply 
the annual fee to his credit card account. Theres no doubt Mr Bs complaint has arisen 
because of circumstances that were initially outside his and Virgin Moneys control. Mr B 
applied for a credit card in the usual way and was prevented from picking it up from his 
home and using it because of coronavirus related travel restrictions. 
But while Im satisfied that this situation was outside of the control of both parties initially, it is 
a situation that could have been resolved some time ago and Im satisfied that the solution 
offered by Virgin Money, when it said it would refund the annual fee if Mr B closed his 
account, was a reasonable one. 
I know that Mr B would like Virgin to keep his account open and defer the annual fee until 
hes able to use the credit card. But Virgin Money has said its systems are simply not set up 
to defer the fee in this way. And Im satisfied that asking Virgin Money to make systemic 
changes to how it manages credit card accounts would not be a proportionate response to 
this complaint. In particular because another reasonable solution is available. 
Mr B said he didnt want to close his account because he had concerns about the impact this 
would have on his credit record. But my understanding is that simply closing an account 
would not have had a negative effect on his credit record. 
Mr B has asked for assurances from Virgin Money that, as long as there are no changes to 
his circumstances, it will approve him for a credit card when he next returns to the UK. Virgin 
has not agreed to this. And I see no reason for me to interfere with how Virgin Money deals 
with new credit card applications.  
If Mr B closes his account, then Virgin Money should ensure the balance of the annual fee, 
which is £120, is credited to his account. The compensation payment of £50 already credited 
to Mr Bs account can then be used to reduce the amount of interest and other fees payable. 
The £50 compensation payment should not be used to reduce the annual fee, as otherwise 
Mr B will not benefit from it. Ive considered Mr Bs credit record. Im aware that interest and late payment charges have 
been applied to his account, that he has not paid these or the annual fee and so its highly 
likely this will have had a negative impact on his credit record. I know that Mr B would like 
Virgin Money to ensure his credit record is unaffected, however I wont be asking Virgin 
Money to take any action in relation to Mr Bs credit record. 
Thats because from what I can see, Virgin Money has applied all charges and interest fairly. 
I can also see that it let Mr B know what the consequences might be if he chose not to make 
payments towards his account. And, as I said earlier, Im satisfied Virgin Money acted 
reasonably when it said it was willing to refund the annual fee if Mr B cancelled his account. 
This was a reasonable solution to a problem that was initially outside the control of both 
parties. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Virgin Money to refund any charges that have arisen 
because Mr B declined to cancel his account or to ask it to amend any information on his 
credit file that has been correctly reported. Virgin Money has a responsibility to accurately 
report how individuals manage their accounts. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I could only ask Virgin Money to take a different 
course of action if I thought it had made an error or acted unfairly and Im satisfied it hasnt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman