DRN-3582508
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that National Westminster Bank Plc is charging interest on their 
property development borrowing.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J say that in July 2019 NatWest agreed to stop charging interest on the 
borrowing. But that it has now started applying interest again.
NatWest said that Mr J and Mrs J had asked that interest be frozen while this service 
considered a different complaint about their borrowing. It had agreed to this and it accepted 
that the wording of its email about this was misleading. NatWest said it had notified Mr J and 
Mrs J of its intention to charge interest again. It apologised for the confusion and distress 
caused.
Our investigator recommended that NatWest pay Mr J and Mrs J £100 and it agreed to do 
so. She said that on 29 May 2019 they had asked NatWest to freeze interest on the account 
until their other complaint had been resolved. A final response to that complaint was issued 
on 28 June 2019 and Mrs J again wrote about the interest. NatWest wrote and said Just 
wanted to let you know that interest has been stopped and no further interest will be added 
to the liability. There had been further correspondence in February 2020 when NatWest 
referred to charging interest but then again confirmed We did indeed advise no further 
interest would be applied to the liability, the letter advises incorrectly that interest will 
continue. On 19 May 2021 NatWest wrote to Mr J and Mrs J to say that interest was being 
applied and that this was to be from the date of a final decision on their previous complaint 
by this service of 30 July 2020. She thought that this was reasonable. But that as things 
could have been made clearer a payment to reflect the distress caused should be made. 
Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree. They said that Mr J remembers a conversation with NatWest 
about this and was told that there would be no further interest. If this service had requested 
the telephone calls NatWest wouldnt provide to them this might establish the distress 
caused. The compensation isnt acceptable given the health impacts. And its not deterrent 
to NatWest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr J and Mrs Js email to NatWest of 29 May 2019 stated that we would ask that 
interest be frozen until this matter has been resolved. That position hadnt been clarified in a 
final response from NatWest and on 2 July 2019 they stated in an email that we would ask 
again that the bank freezes interest on the debt.
Our investigator has set out the response from NatWest in July 2019 and then February 
2020. And an ombudsman colleague dealt with their earlier complaint in a final decision 
dated 30 July 2020 and didnt uphold that complaint or require NatWest to take any action 
about interest on the account before July 2019.
So, the narrow issue Im looking at here is whether NatWest has dealt with the request to 
freeze interest fairly. It was entitled to apply interest and wasnt required to freeze interest. 
And the position here is that interest was frozen for over a year. This was during the period 
that the previous complaint was considered and seemed to be what Mr J and Mrs J had 
asked for. And I think that NatWests answers to them fairly need to be read and interpreted 
taking into account what their questions were.
NatWests accepted that its communications about this were poor and I dont doubt that if it 
had spoken to Mr J about this he would have gained a similar impression. So, I dont think a 
call recording even if now available would help me. Im satisfied that the intention wasnt to 
freeze interest permanently and this was an informal arrangement on a goodwill basis.
I also dont doubt that Mr J and Mrs J were distressed to find out about the interest again 
being charged and about the need to repay this borrowing generally. And Ive seen their 
evidence about the health problems they describe. 
I need here to consider the additional distress caused by this miscommunication and not the 
wider impacts of debt collection and what happened with their properties. I know that for 
them it is all part of the same thing. But I must fairly isolate the impact here. And I also take 
into account what I think their reasonable expectation about the freezing of interest could be. 
We dont make punitive awards and I think that the compensation recommended is sufficient 
here. I appreciate that they will be very disappointed with my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay, not credit, Mr J and Mrs J with £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman