DRN-2692762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about a mortgage they held with the Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS). The account was a NatWest-branded One account. The complaint falls into 
three broad categories which are;
how the mortgage was set up in 2004,
 
why RBS charged unsecured debt interest rates on Mr and Mrs Es other debts, and
what happened after the five-year term extension Mr and Mrs E had arranged in 2014 
was coming  and had come  to an end in 2019.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How the mortgage was set up in 2004
Mr and Mrs E have made various allegations about what happened in 2004 but none of them 
are supported by the contemporaneous evidence. Theyve said, at various times:
In your letter you say that I applied for The One Account on 11 December, 2003. I 
believe this is incorrect. I applied for The One Account in 1993
In 1993 we refinanced our RBS mortgage arrangements with National Westminster 
Bank pic ("Natwest") and took out a 'current account mortgage' called a "Natwest One 
Account". In 2000, RBS acquired National Westminster Bank, and thereby inherited our 
Natwest One Account.
In early 2004,I [Mr E] met with [staff member], who was at that time our relationship 
manager with RBS, for a routine annual meeting to review my financial affairs. During 
that meeting [staff member] told me that the Bank (ie RBS) had been undertaking a 
review of accounts that they had inherited through the purchase of Natwest. He said that 
there were deficiencies in the charge which Natwest had over my property, and that the 
bank would like to remedy the situation by taking a charge themselves. He represented 
to me that the new charge was to replace the Natwest One Account charge, and was a 
housekeeping matter, as I was a customer of RBS, rather than Natwest.
We have now established, many years later, that there was in fact no charge registered 
by National Westminster bank at the Land Registry prior to 2004. The effect of the RBS 
charge was to create an entirely new charge, where none previously existed.
In 2004, RBS (please note, not Natwest) asked us to put in place a charge to secure 
the Natwest One Account loan. At the time, it was explained to us that it was to correct 
deficiencies which RBS had uncovered in the security for the Natwest One Account. We 
had, as you have rightly pointed out, some months earlier arranged to remortgage our 
property by taking out a new mortgage with Natwest in the form of a new account: the 
Natwest One Account. The Natwest One Account was to refinance an older mortgage 
that we had had with RBS, which predated the takeover of Natwest by RBS. 
I believe that the deficiency which RBS were referring to when they said they needed a 
charge to be put in place to secure the Natwest One Account was because Natwest had 
in fact forgotten to register a charge at the Land Registry when we opened the Natwest 
One Account and therefore had no security.
I cannot now recall whether I signed a mortgage agreement with Natwest at the time 
the account was opened but I believe it is highly likely that I did. But as I have said 
above, if I did, Natwest forgot to register it. Natwest may even have a copy of the 
document, but as it did not register the charge when the account was opened, it may 
have been disposed of. So, when RBS asked us to sign a new mortgage agreement a 
few months later, we thought we were putting in place something we had agreed to do 
already. There was no reason to think we needed to take independent advice a second 
time.
You  have  suggested  that the bank  advised  us to seek  independent  advice.  As I 
have  explained  already  we did take advice  when  we took the mortgage  out and we 
were  happy  that the product  was suitable  for our needs.  But we were  asked  to sign 
a mortgage  deed  several  months  later,  well after we had started  drawing  down  the 
account,  with the explanation  that it was to secure  our Natwest  One Account,  and 
nothing  more.  We did not seek  independent  advice  on a second  occasion, because  
we did not imagine  that RBS  would  slip in such  a feature,  let alone  without  drawing  
it to our attention.
I have  now established  that National  Westminster  failed  to register  its charge  for 
the Natwest  One Account,  when  it was openned  and I have  verified  this by a 
conducting  a search  at the Land  Registry.  That is why [staff  member]  asked  me, 
several  months  after the mortgage  had been  opened  and the account  already  
drawn  down  to sign the new mortgage  deed
It is understandable that Mr and Mrs Es recollections have become confused due to the 
passage of time, but I can reassure them that the evidence from the time doesnt indicate 
any of these things happened in the way they recall.
Mr and Mrs couldnt have taken out a One Account in 1993 as they werent invented until 
1998, and at that time were branded as a Virgin One account. The account style moved to 
RBS in 2003.In 1991 Mr and Mrs E took out a standard mortgage with RBS on their current property. The 
charge was registered with the Land Registry on 30 July 1991 and that entry showed that 
the charge (that is, the mortgage deed) was dated 11 July 1991. Its not clear what 
Mr and Mrs E have been looking at that led them to believe there was no RBS charge before 
2004 but it isnt right. They took out an RBS mortgage on 11 July 1991 and that was 
correctly registered a few weeks later, as I would normally expect.
That charge then remained in place until they actively applied for a One Account which they 
used to repay their existing RBS mortgage, plus raise additional funds.
Weve got a copy of the application form and the contact notes from the time. The notes 
show the application was made in December 2003, a valuation of the property was 
undertaken in February 2004 and the mortgage offer was produced later that month. It was 
accepted by Mr and Mrs E and the mortgage completed on 8 March 2004.
Weve got a copy of the signed mortgage deed for the One account mortgage and can see 
the charge was registered with the Land Registry on 1 April 2004 and that entry showed that 
the charge (that is, the mortgage deed) was dated 8 March 2004.
The new mortgage deed wasnt signed to correct any deficiencies in the 1991 mortgage. Nor 
was the mortgage deed signed months after the One account had gone live. The mortgage 
deed was signed at the normal stage of the process  that is, between the mortgage offer 
being produced and the mortgage completing  and was registered at the Land Registry 
within weeks (again, as I would expect).
When our investigator provided a copy of the mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs E to show the 
lender for their One account was always RBS, it was just branded as NatWest, Mr and Mrs E 
said:
I note that the document you have attached -'the offer letter' - is not signed by either me 
or my wife.
We have never seen it before
But thats not true. At my request RBS obtained the signed copy from its archive, and that 
shows Mr and Mrs E signed that offer on 24 February 2004.
The mortgage offer states:
We invite you to open a NatWest One account with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
By signing and returning a master copy of this letter to us you create a contract with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
The account is a personal, secured current account with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Please open a NatWest One account in our names with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc
The mortgage application form declaration that Mr and Mrs E signed on 10 November 2003 
stated:I apply for a NatWest One account with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
And the mortgage deed that Mr and Mrs E signed before completion on 8 March 2004 
stated:
Bank: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Having considered all these documents, it seems the fact the lender was RBS, with the 
account just being branded as NatWest, was made clear to Mr and Mrs E at the time. I cant 
hold RBS liable if they didnt read any of those documents or seek independent legal advice 
if they didnt understand them.
Mr and Mrs E have said they werent told that RBS was taking an all monies charge but 
again this was set out on the mortgage deed they signed to enter into this mortgage 
contract. It said that it secured:
"All the customers liabilities to the Bank of any kind (whether present or future, actual or 
contingent and whether incurred alone or jointly with another) together with the Banks 
charges and commission, Interest and Expenses."
At the top of that document it said:
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT, YOU ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO TAKE 
INDEPENDENT LEGAL ADVICE FROM A SOLICITOR, LICENSED CONVEYANCER 
OR LEGAL EXECUTIVE BEFORE SIGNING. SIGN ONLY IF YOU WANT TO BE 
LEGALLY BOUND.
Again, I cant hold RBS liable if Mr and Mrs E didnt seek independent legal advice before 
they signed the deed, or if the legal advice they did take didnt make the nature of the charge 
clear to them.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold the first part of Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
why RBS charged unsecured debt interest rates on Mr and Mrs Es other debts
RBS had an all monies charge as part of the One account. It isnt at all unusual for a 
mortgage lender to have an all monies charge as it makes things easier  and cheaper in 
terms of legal costs  if a customer wants to apply for some further secured lending in the 
future as the existing charge can be used. Mr and Mrs Es position isnt at all unusual here, 
there will be a lot of people within the UK that have all monies charges and other 
(non-mortgage) debts with the same lender.
Whilst the all monies charge gave RBS the right to enforce its security over Mr and Mrs Es 
home for all the debts they held with the bank, the reality is that didnt happen. RBS made no 
attempt to use that charge for anything other than the One account mortgage debt.
I understand Mr and Mrs E feel RBS should have charged them lower interest rates on their 
other debts because they were secured under the all monies charge. I understand their 
point, but I dont agree.
RBS is entitled to offer financing (such as loans, credit card and overdrafts) to Mr and Mrs E 
at whatever rates it chooses. Mr and Mrs E can then choose to either accept or reject those 
offers. Just because a debt is secured doesnt mean a lender has to offer an interest rate 
below a certain amount, just as unsecured debts dont have to be above a certain rate. RBS 
was willing to lend Mr and Mrs E money (outside of the One account) at certain rates and they were willing to borrow it. Its not my place to interfere with that. Were not the regulator 
of financial businesses, and we dont police how they operate generally. Thats the job of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Im satisfied RBS did nothing wrong in only being willing to allow Mr and Mrs E to borrow 
money outside of the One account at the interest rates it offered at the time, the fact there 
was an all monies charge doesnt change that. If Mr and Mrs E have any wider concerns 
about this practice  which is entirely normal in the industry  then that would be a matter for 
the regulator.
what happened after the five-year term extension Mr and Mrs E had arranged in 2014 was 
coming  and had come  to an end in 2019
In 2014 RBS agreed to a five-year term extension. At that time Mr and Mrs E owed over 
£600,000.
Mr and Mrs E say they werent given the support they needed by RBS when the revised term 
was coming to an end in 2019. 
NatWest had been trying to contact Mr and Mrs E since 2016 to review matters with them, 
with no response. In February 2019 Mr and Mrs E asked for a further term extension, but as 
they were over the £700,000 account limit RBS said the debt needed to be reduced back 
under £700,000 before that could be considered. A term extension request was then 
considered but it was turned down as a £700,000 debt was no longer deemed affordable for 
Mr and Mrs E. Instead RBS gave a 12-month extension to allow time for the debt to be 
repaid as Mr and Mrs E said they were selling the property.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs E almost immediately exceeded their agreed facility again, and 
despite requests to reduce the debt back under £700,000 they failed to do so. Because of 
this RBS issued a formal demand in August 2019. As the debt continued to increase RBS 
started legal action to recover the debt.
Mr and Mrs E have said 
I include below an extract from the Financial Ombudsman's website in relation to 
interest only mortgages: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-
deal/mortgages/interest-only-mortgages 
Fair treatment of customers at risk of being unable to repay 
You need to show youve explored all options in a fair manner  taking possession 
should be a last resort. Your actions should have included: 
considering reasonable requests made by the consumer  for example, a term 
extension, conversion to a repayment mortgage, or allowing overpayments 
considering whether the consumer has other options to repay the debt, such as a 
new mortgage with another lender or equity release 
ensuring your customer knows they can get advice on their options, by referring them 
to a free independent debt organisation, or suggesting they speak with an 
independent financial adviser I would draw your attention to the second and third sub paragraphs above. 
As you have pointed out Natwest did suggest we seek independent advice, so I accept 
that they complied with the third sub paragraph above. 
However, Natwest did not comply with the second sub paragraph. You have described a 
series of conversations which took place between myself and the Natwest call centre 
regarding the Natwest One Account. In none of those conversations did I have any 
meaningful discussion about "other options to repay". At no time did the bank suggest 
that I consider refinancing. In fact, quite the contrary, through their approach and tone 
and lack of encouragement, and constant reference to lack of affordibility, it lead me to 
believe that refinancing was hopeless.
Ive considered this point carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. RBS wasnt seeking to take 
possession because Mr and Mrs Es second term extension had come to an end (which 
would have been in 2020). It was seeking possession because Mr and Mrs E had once 
again breached the maximum facility limit that had been agreed. If Mr and Mrs E had 
remained within their facility limit, I have no reason to believe RBS wouldnt have honoured 
that 12-month further extended period to allow them time to repay their One account debt.
In any event, the second bullet point doesnt mean what Mr and Mrs E think. The second 
bullet point means a lender shouldnt push ahead with a repossession at the end of the 
mortgage term if an alternative financing option is going through. By that I mean if, for 
example, a consumer provides a copy of a formal mortgage offer from another lender which 
would be enough to repay the debt, then the current lender should allow a reasonable time 
period for that new lending to complete. It doesnt mean a lender needs to proactively tell a 
customer about what other funding options may be available to them. That would be the job 
of the independent financial adviser, which is covered in point three.
RBS told Mr and Mrs E that they should seek independent financial advice. I cant hold RBS 
liable if Mr and Mrs E chose not to do so, until it was so late that their options were more 
limited. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied RBS did nothing wrong with proceeding with 
litigation when it did, and for that reason I cant hold RBS liable for the costs Mr and Mrs E 
incurred. Im also satisfied that RBS treated Mr and Mrs E fairly when their original term 
came to an end in 2014, and from then until the point the mortgage debt was repaid. For the 
reasons given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman