DRN-3059557
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way TSB Bank plc (TSB) responded to a dispute he raised with
them about a holiday he paid for using his TSB credit card.
What happened
Mr R booked a package holiday using his TSB credit card. He says that a swimming pool at
the hotel was an essential feature for his family but he found out after booking the holiday
that the pool was going to be closed for renovations during their trip.
Mr R says that because the pool was out of use his family did not want to go on the trip. He
says that the supplier would not let him cancel or change the booking. He went on the
holiday with his older child out of protest on the advice of a trade association. However, his
wife and younger children did not go on the trip as it was not suitable.
TSB did not uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75)
or mange to recover Mr Rs money through a chargeback. Mr R was not happy with this so
he complained. TSB responded to say that it raised a chargeback against the supplier but
this was defended. TSB pointed out that the booking was non-refundable. It also said that
phone calls show that Mr R didnt want to go on the holiday because his wife was concerned
about the location. It added that the supplier had tried to assist but Mr R had not allowed it
to. So overall, it said it couldnt help him any further.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what happened. He
upheld the complaint. In summary, he said the lack of a pool was a significant change to the
original holiday deal. And Mr R was entitled to a refund under the terms of his contract with
the supplier. The investigator acknowledged that Mr R had use of the flights and
accommodation. But overall, in the circumstances he felt that Mr R was entitled to receive
80% of the cost of the holiday to fairly put things right.
TSB disagreed with this. In summary it says:
in the final booking call with Mr R there is no mention of a pool and the agent did 
not hear properly when he asked about the pool;
this is a case of using Section 75 to compensate someone who did not speak to his 
partner before making a booking. It was Mr R who changed his mind about the 
destination because of his partner not wanting to go to the location and (regardless 
of the pool issue) he would likely have refused any alternative resort if he was 
offered the same destination;
80% is an unreasonable refund as Mr Rs partner willingly chose to give up the 
services and Mr R and one of his children used a return flight and room. Any 
redress should reflect a minor disruption to the holiday, which is not covered by 
Section 75;
it is not fair or reasonable for Mr Rs partner to expect a full refund for her portion 
of the cost when she refused to travel and also would have refused any 
reasonable alternatives. Mr Rs partner and her two children are not part of the 
debtor-creditor- supplier relationship so are not covered by Section 75;
Section 75 is designed to protect consumers from clear breaches of contract, but 
this is compensating a consumer who made a mistake when he booked a holiday 
without first speaking to his partner; and
previous complaints this service have dealt with where consumers seek a refund 
based on reduced service during a holiday have not been upheld as the 
consumers have benefitted from the holiday.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 3 September 2021. In this I said:
Section 75 allows Mr R to hold TSB responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using his credit card. 
However, there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 
claim to be valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties 
to the transaction, or the way the payment was made.
It is not for me to determine the outcome of a Section 75 claim. That is something which 
TSB has considered. However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I can look at
the actions of TSB with regard to any relevant law (in this case Section 75).
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have considered the technical requirements 
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties to the transaction. One of the reasons for doing a 
provisional decision here is to clarify the position regarding the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement.
TSB has indicated that Section 75 does not allow Mr R to potentially recover 80% of the cost
of the holiday because some of those costs relate to his wife and children. It refers to them
not being part of the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
I have looked at the contractual relationship here, including the booking paperwork and
terms and conditions with the supplier. I am satisfied that as the booking party Mr R made a
contractual agreement with the supplier that it would provide the holiday package to him as
specified. I note that in the event of problems or changes the contract allows him (as the
principal booking party or User) certain remedies including a full refund. Furthermore, I do
not see anything in the agreement that would make me conclude Mr R is prevented from
raising a claim for breach of contract in respect of the cost of the whole holiday booking. So I
disagree with TSB that the requirements of Section 75 prevent Mr R from recovering 80% (or
more) of the price paid for the holiday.
Has there been wrongdoing by the supplier?
In considering whether there has been a breach of contract by the supplier I have taken into
account the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). In summary, this says that a service must
be performed with reasonable care and skill and that any information about the service is to
be binding if it is taken into account by the consumer when deciding to enter the contract.
I have looked at our investigators phone notes and listened to parts of key calls that Mr R
had with the supplier. From a call on 3 August 2019 it is very clear to me that before booking
Mr R wanted a hotel with a pool. In fact Mr R mentions the importance of a pool severaltimes and the agent he spoke to even rules out certain hotels as they dont have a pool. I
also note that Mr R specifically asks if the hotel he ended up booking has a pool and the
agent confirms it does.
TSB has pointed out that Mr R does not mention the pool in the actual booking call (which
took place a little later the same evening). It seems Mr R was disconnected from the original
agent he spoke to that day. But I dont think this means the information about the hotel he
was given leading up to the booking should be disregarded. Overall, I think what he was told
about the pool forms a binding part of the contract with the supplier.
TSB claims the hotel had clearly indicated that the pool would not be available for a two
week period  so it was Mr R who made a mistake by booking the hotel online. But I dont
think Mr R did book online  he apparently booked over the phone on 3 August, and I think it
was fair that Mr R relied on the information he was given on the phone by the supplier that
day leading up to the confirmation of booking.
It isnt in dispute that the pool was actually due for renovation while Mr R and his family were
expected to holiday at the hotel. So by not providing the pool as promised the supplier
appears to be in breach of a specific term of the contract to provide a hotel with said facility.
What is a fair remedy?
I think this matter has been clouded somewhat by the initial reason Mr R gave the supplier
for wanting to cancel the booking. He initially said to the supplier his wife did not want to go
to the wider location where the hotel is.
I agree that Mr R probably had more than one reason for not wanting to go on the holiday he
booked. TSB has placed a lot of reliance on this as a reason Mr R should not get a remedy
here. I have considered what it has said carefully. However, while Mr R might have had
more than one reason for being unhappy with the booking this in itself does not limit his
rights for a legitimate breach of contract.
I accept that Mr R would likely have had no grounds to cancel based on the initial reason he
gave. I am sure Mr R would not consider himself fortunate that he later found out the pool
was not available to use but it did mean the supplier had done something wrong that it had
to put right. So in order to do what is fair and reasonable I have looked at what the supplier
should have done in order to put right this failure to provide what was agreed.
I have turned to the suppliers own terms and conditions. Which state that if a significant
change is made to a fundamental element of the holiday Mr R has a right to a refund or may
enjoy an alternative at no extra cost. I disagree with TSB that the lack of a pool was not
significant here. I think that the lack of a pool meant that the holiday Mr R got was
significantly different from the one he requested and expected. So I think this term does
apply here.
I have not seen persuasive evidence that the supplier tried to resolve things in accordance
with its contract. TSB has indicated that Mr R would not have accepted an alternative hotel
anyway as he was unhappy with the overall destination. But there is nothing in the terms
which says Mr R has to accept an alternative in the same location. I think it likely had the
supplier said it could only offer him a different hotel in the same location then he would have
taken the option of getting a refund instead (and he would be contractually entitled to do so).
It is worth noting that even if the suppliers specific contractual remedy did not apply here
(and I think it does) I also consider Mr R would likely be entitled to a full or partial refund here
in any event via the implied provisions of the CRA. This is because the service supplied did
not conform to the terms agreed at the outset over the phone.So although TSB has focused on Mr Rs initial reasons for cancellation, he was contractually
entitled to a refund for another reason. So he should have been offered this regardless.
Because he wasnt it has effectively meant he has had to keep a holiday booking that he
shouldnt have had to.
In the circumstances I think that Mr R would have been reasonable not to go on the holiday
at all. But it appears he was told he could go under protest by a travel association. I know
that Mr R and his older son did get some kind of benefit from the trip, and I think that should
be reflected in any remedy. But I dont think Mr R should have his remedy significantly
reduced for trying to make the best of a bad situation.
The original intention was a family holiday with a swimming pool. I dont agree that Mr R
suffered minor disruption to his holiday as a result of the suppliers breach. What Mr R got in
the end was very different from this. And regardless of any other reason for not wanting to
go I think had the supplier remedied the breach about the pool properly then Mr R would
likely have got the holiday he wanted. This isnt a science, but all things considered I think an
80% refund (or £1,401 rounded)  is a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
I know TSB considers this service has not made awards in similar cases. It has not pointed
to any particular decision. But in any event I consider each case based on the particular
circumstances. In this case, and with Section 75 in mind, I consider it fair and reasonable to
make such an award.
I upheld the complaint and directed TSB Bank to re-work Mr Rs credit card as if the 
£1,401 of the transaction had not been paid, refunding any interest and charges and 
paying him any credit balance plus 8% simple yearly interest on this.
I asked the parties for a response:
Mr R had nothing further to add. TSB said its submissions had been fully considered by 
the Ombudsman and while its view on the complaint remained unchanged it was willing 
to implement the suggested resolution on a goodwill basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not added anything that would make me think my provisional findings (as 
copied above) should change. I still consider them to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. For the reasons I have already given in these provisional findings I consider 
that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I have already given in my provisional decision I consider a partial refund of 
80% of the cost of the holiday to be fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to re-work Mr Rs credit card account as if
£1,401 of the transaction for the holiday had not been paid, refunding any interest and
charges in respect of that amount. If this calculation results in a credit balance TSB needs to
refund this and pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date ofsaid credit balance to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman