DRN-4353592
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
handled his request for money back in respect of an item he bought using his AESEL credit 
card. 
What happened
On 30 December 2020 Mr M bought a piece of furniture from a supplier Ill call A. He paid 
£319.20 using his AESEL credit card. The payment was made via a third-party payment 
processor under its guest checkout option. 
Mr M said that in early May 2021 he noticed the weld on the bottom right of the door had 
failed and caused it to drop. He contacted A, provided photographs of the problem and 
asked it to arrange collection of the furniture and a full refund. 
A responded and confirmed that if Mr M packaged the furniture appropriately it would send 
him a postage label and then refund him.
Mr M said he didnt receive the postage label and when he contacted A it changed what it 
was it prepared to do to help him and said it would send a new door rather than provide a 
refund. 
Mr M contacted A again in July 2021 and asked it for a brand new replacement. A 
responded and asked Mr M to send the door to its main warehouse after which it would send 
a replacement. Mr M said it never sent a postage label and then refused to provide a refund 
when he asked for one.
Mr M asked AESEL to step and help him get a refund at this point. 
AESEL considered its liability to Mr M under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 but it 
didnt think he had a valid claim. It said because Mr M paid A via a third-party payment 
processor and not directly, the necessary criteria under Section 75 for there to be an 
agreement between the debtor, creditor and supplier had not been met.
AESESL also said Mr M hadnt provided enough evidence that there had been a breach of 
contract. It said the damage appeared to have been identified four months after Mr M bought 
the furniture and not raised until after six months.
Dissatisfied Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said the involvement of the 
third-party payment processor did not disrupt a debtor, creditor, supplier (DCS) agreement. 
And he thought the photographs Mr M had provided showed the cabinet was not of 
satisfactory quality  in breach of the term implied by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 that it 
would be. The investigator asked AESEL to pay Mr M £319.20 plus compensation of £100 
for the inconvenience hed been caused by AESELs handling of the matter.
AESEL didnt respond to the investigators assessment so the complaint has been referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances I am required to take into 
account relevant legislation, rules and guidance. I think relevant legislation in this case 
includes Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA). 
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
One of those criteria is that the claim must relate to a transaction financed by a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. In other words, given Mr Ms claim here, AESEL must have 
financed a transaction between him and A. 
AESEL said it didnt finance a transaction between Mr M and A but rather it financed one 
between Mr M and the third-party finance provider. 
In this case, Mr M said the credit card payment went to A via the payment processor under 
its guest checkout process and he did not have an account with the payment processor. He 
has provided confirmation of this from the third-party payment processor and I accept what 
he says about this. 
So, I think that the payment in this case was made under arrangements of the required kind. 
This is because the payment processor in this case is a recognised participant in the same 
card scheme as A, and this model of recruiting and paying suppliers is a common and 
accepted commercial practice which has evolved over time. AESEL would have 
contemplated, when agreeing to give Mr M a credit card, that the market for payment 
services would develop over time and that the card would be used to pay suppliers through 
the card scheme via any established method which had since emerged. This is one such 
method. Due to the mutual participation of all parties within the card scheme, therefore, there 
was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in this particular case.
Ive considered therefore whether there likely was a breach of contract by A.
The CRA implied terms in Mr Ms contract with A that any goods supplied to him would be of 
satisfactory quality. What is satisfactory depends on what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking account of the price and description. Relevant aspects of 
satisfactory quality include things like durability and freedom from minor defects.
Mr M said the welding of the bottom part of the furniture door failed after five months and this 
caused the glass to drop. The photographs Mr M has provided match his description of the 
problem and Im satisfied from these there appeared to be a fault with the furniture. I dont 
think Mr M would reasonably have expected the furniture to break in the way it did after five 
months given how much he paid for it. And no evidence has been put forward to support an 
argument that this happened through misuse. So, it doesnt appear the item was sufficiently 
durable. I think therefore that A breached the implied term in the contract that the goods 
supplied to Mr M would be of satisfactory quality. 
Taking all of this into account, I find AESEL treated Mr M unfairly by declining to meet his claim in any way.
To put things right, Im conscious A might ordinarily have had an opportunity to fix the or 
replace the furniture and that this might therefore have been the fair thing to require AESEL 
to arrange. 
However, given the time that has now passed, given its not clear that A ever sent the 
postage label to Mr M to enable him to return the goods for a repair or replacement, and 
given its not clear whether anyone other than A could repair or replace the item, such a 
remedy appears to have its complications now. 
The CRA sets out that where a consumer has requested repair or replacement and the 
supplier hasnt carried this out in reasonable time, that consumer has a right to reject the 
goods and ask for a refund.
All things considered therefore, I think the fairest thing here is for AESEL to treat Mr M as if it 
had met his claim for a refund and pay him £319.20 plus interest from when it declined the 
claim until the date of settlement.
AESEL should also make arrangements with Mr M for the collection or disposal of the 
cabinet at no cost to him. If AESEL simply wishes to pay Mr M his costs of disposal (subject 
to him providing it with proof he has incurred these), this is reasonable. 
The investigator recommended that AESEL pay Mr M £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I can make an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, but in 
this case that would only be in respect of AESELs actions. Looking at matters here, AESEL 
responded to Mr Ms request for a refund within a month, which I find was a reasonable 
period of time. And while I havent agreed with its position in respect of a claim under section 
75, AESEL was entitled to its view on the claim. It would not be fair of me to make an award 
for distress and inconvenience in this case simply because of the view AESEL took on Mr 
Ms claim, particularly given some of the issues involved were not straightforward. I do not 
therefore require AESEL to pay compensation to Mr M for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. To put things right American 
Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must:
Make arrangements with Mr M for the collection or disposal of the cabinet at no cost 
to him. 
Pay Mr M £319.20 plus simple interest of 8% per year on that amount from 14 April 
2022 until the date of payment*
*If American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman