DRN-1760793
The complaint
Mrs Os complaint is that her account statements provided by Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Littlewoods are confusing and she is concerned she might be being 
overcharged.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs O entered a credit agreement with Littlewoods in 2012 and in doing so agreed to 
its terms.
Items can be bought in different ways under the credit agreement and the terms 
explain the difference between the facilities. Mrs O has made use of the shopping 
account and the buy now pay later (BNPL) facility. The monthly account statements 
provide information about the outstanding balance on the account and how much of 
this relates to the BNPL account. The statements provide information on BNPL items 
that are coming to the end of the delayed payment period and lists payments made 
towards the account. They also show adjustments to the account for interest that 
hasnt been charged when BNPL items have been paid for within the required 
timeframe. So, while I can understand that the statements can appear confusing, I 
find they do contain the information Mrs O needs to understand the status of her 
account.
Mrs O has raised concerns about the process of payment for BNPL items as she 
feels the assumption is that the payment will not be made in the delayed payment 
period. She has noted that BPNL items are added into the calculation for the 
minimum payment amount it the month the payment is due. I understand the point 
Mrs O has made but the terms set out that the minimum payment is based on 
amounts due for transactions on the standard facility as well as other items including 
instalments due on the BPNL plans. Therefore, without further evidence, I do not find 
I can say that Littlewoods has done anything wrong in its calculation of the minimum 
payment amount. 
Littlewoods has provided an explanation of how payments are allocated and 
explained when issues have occurred regrading this on Mrs Os account. The 
allocation of payments is set out in the terms and conditions and it is made clear that 
payments need to be allocated to the BPNL account and if this doesnt happen a 
payment could be used to pay towards the amount outstanding on the shopping 
account.
My role isnt to provide an audit of the account but instead to see if there is evidence 
that Mrs O has been treated unfairly. While I understand Mrs Os concerns, I do not 
find that I have anything to show that she is being overcharged on her account or that 
her account isnt being managed in line with the terms and conditions.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Littlewoods. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman