DRN-1150150
 
The complaint
Mrs C says MYJAR Limited (Myjar) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Myjar provided two loans to Mrs C - heres a table setting out details: 
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 10/02/2018 24/04/2018 3 £150.00 £78.06
2 25/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £450.00 £138.91
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly lent. 
Mrs C disagreed. She mainly says that MyJar was wrong to allow her to borrow a second 
time as at that point shed borrowed a high amount compared to her income. Also, she took 
out loan 2 within 24 hours of paying loan 1 so Myjar shouldve recognised this meant she 
was in financial difficulty. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint. Before lending to Mrs C, Myjar asked her for information on her financial situation, such as 
her monthly income and her outgoings, including other creditor repayments, and it carried 
out credit checks. 
loan 1
I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the information Mrs C told Myjar about her 
income and outgoings and what Myjar had recorded about her financial situation, it wasnt 
wrong for Myjar to give her loan 1. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the 
checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. As it seems Mrs C hasnt raised any 
objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan 1, I dont think that I need to 
say more about this loan. 
loan 2
Looking at her income and the information it seems Mrs C provided to Myjar it still looks to 
me like the monthly repayments she had to make on loan 2 shouldve been affordable for 
her. And Myjar could see that Mrs C had paid loan 1 without any apparent difficulty  so 
there wasnt anything in her borrowing history at that stage to lead Myjar to think that she 
might be having serious money problems. 
I think the fact that Mrs C was asking to borrow three times the amount shed taken out on 
loan 1, the next day after repaying that loan, shouldve prompted Myjar to think carefully 
about whether it had a good enough understanding of her financial circumstances so it could 
make a fair lending decision.
I appreciate Mrs C was paying for other debt elsewhere. And the checks Myjar did flagged 
this up. But I can also see that Mrs C declared an amount for her outgoing monthly credit 
commitments that doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And Myjar took this into account when 
looking at affordability overall. So I dont think it was wrong for Myjar to rely on the 
information Mrs C provided in relation to how much she paid on a monthly basis towards that 
debt. 
And Ive seen nothing, and havent been provided with any information, to suggest that Myjar 
shouldve realised it needed to do further checks to verify what Mrs C was saying  or that 
these wouldve shown that providing loan 2 to her was unfair. 
Mrs C has mentioned that Myjar wouldve seen from her credit report at the time that her 
mortgage was in early arrears together with her council tax and gas and electricity bills. But 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will - and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. And it doesn't look like Mrs C told Myjar about these money problems 
at the time. 
Looking at the information it seems Mrs C provided and the information Myjar had gathered 
about her financial situation, I dont think Myjar did anything wrong when it made its lending 
decision. 
At this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Myjar to ask Mrs C to prove what she was declaring or check other information sources to 
verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
Mrs C also told us she doesnt feel that she shouldve accrued additional interest and 
charges as a result of the loan being paid late. Myjar has confirmed that when she complained it froze all the interest and charges on her account and placed the loan on hold. 
That seems a reasonable response to me.
Im sorry that Mrs C found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Myjar obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to safely say Myjar did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mrs C. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs C but I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
I take this opportunity to remind Myjar (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it should 
discuss payment options with Mrs C and treat her fairly and sympathetically if Mrs C needs 
further time to pay what she still owes. This includes making sure that her credit file correctly 
records her debt.
And if Mrs C would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman