DRN-3972156
The complaint
Mr N complains about the standard of service he received from American Express Services 
Europe Limited when he used their live chat facility and tried to register a complaint.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 18 January 2023, and this is what I 
said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 8 February 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr N complains about the standard of service he received from American Express Services
Europe Limited when he used their live chat facility and tried to register a complaint.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr N contacted Amex via their live chat channel to enquire about viewing
historic statements on a cancelled account using his banking app.
Mr N was advised that the only way to view these statements was to request paper copies.
Mr Ns preference was for electronic statements, so he was dissatisfied with this solution
and, when browsing Amexs website a few weeks later, he discovered they could be
downloaded, and he had been misinformed.
Mr N was dissatisfied with the service he received so he contacted Amex again, via their live
chat channel, to register a complaint. Mr N found the experience frustrating and distressing
and added this to his complaint. This is because he found it necessary to make several
attempts to register the complaint and felt the contact staff were dismissive and downplayed
his concerns.
Amex investigated Mr Ns complaints. Regarding the misinformation, Amex said the adviser
didnt make an error, but the system was out of date. So, they upheld this part of Mr Ns
complaint and made a goodwill gesture of £50.
However, Amex didnt uphold Mr Ns other complaint. They said Mr Ns difficulties were
because Mr N became unresponsive on the chat and the line disconnected.
Mr N was unhappy with Amexs response and the amount of their goodwill gesture, so he
complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint and, as he remains dissatisfied, his
complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I intend to uphold 
this complaint for the following reasons.
As Amex accept they misinformed Mr N about accessing his historic statements, I first
looked at their response and goodwill gesture to see if this was fair and reasonable to put
this right.
Although I can see that Amex apologised and recognised that their error caused Mr N
inconvenience, I can understand why Mr N feels they were brushing aside his concerns.
This is because Mr N believes the agent was responsible and, instead of just saying they
made a mistake, Amex explained it was due to their systems not being updated.
However, I think Amexs response demonstrates that they took Mr Ns complaint seriously.
They run a busy contact centre relying on the latest information and I found their answer
plausible. Also, I think it shows that Amex investigated Mr Ns complaint and understood the
root cause enabling them to improve and prevent a reoccurrence. So, I think Amexs reply
showed they acted responsibly, and their goodwill gesture was fair and reasonable.
I then looked at Mr Ns experience using Amexs live chat channel and I think this caused Mr
N distress and additional inconvenience.
Whilst I understand Amexs operational needs and security procedures and reason for not
upholding this part of Mr Ns complaint, I dont think Amex made it easy for Mr N to register
his complaint. Although its not Amexs fault if theres a response delay, when Mr N was
connected, I found there were occasions where Mr N had to unnecessarily repeat himself.
Furthermore, he had at an early stage of the chat filed a formal complaint and given full
details. 
So, even though he subsequently became unresponsive, I think Amex shouldve
been more proactive in both reviewing his previous chat and taking forward his complaint.
This wouldve prevented Mr N having to spend time repeating security checks and
explanations, so I can see how Mr N was caused frustration and distress here.
In addition, I think the language used by an Amex adviser wouldve added to Mr Ns distress.
Mr N had a genuine concern and felt it was important for his complaint to be registered and
investigated. So, although it may have been unintentional, I found Amex caused further
upset when their adviser used the word only when summarising Mr Ns complaint, and Mr
N felt this downplayed the issue. And this, coupled with Mr Ns difficult and frustrating
experience trying to register the complaint, clearly added to Mr Ns feeling that Amex werent
interested in his complaint.
So, considering the distress and inconvenience Mr N experienced when trying to register his
complaint, Im upholding this complaint.
To recognise this and the time and effort Mr N spent trying to register his complaint, I think
Amex should pay Mr N £150 less any amounts already paid.My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr N £150 compensation less any
amounts already paid.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 8 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.
Neither party submitted any further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further arguments or evidence have been produced in response to my provisional 
decision, my view remains the same.
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ns complaint and I 
require American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr N £150 compensation less any 
amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman