DRN-2087241
The complaint
Mr S complains about the installation costs he was charged by Aviva Insurance Limited for
fitting a new boiler.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr S made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy after one of
his boilers broke down. Aviva sent out an engineer, who found the boiler was beyond
economic repair. The policy terms said that if a boiler was more than seven years old and
beyond economic repair, Aviva would replace the boiler, so long as a policyholder paid the
installation costs.
Aviva visited Mr S to give him a quote for the costs of installing a new boiler, together with
some additional extras. The total quote was for around £1500, although the fitting costs were
around £1230. Mr S agreed to the quote and the new boiler was installed a few days later.
Mr S wasnt happy about the installation costs hed paid. He felt they were too high. He said
the person whod given him the quote had told him he couldnt use any other company to
install the boiler; he had to decide there and then; and his boiler would no longer be insured
if he didnt go ahead. He also told us that hed previously had a free boiler from Aviva, but
that at that point; hed been able to get his own engineer to install it. He asked us to look into
his complaint.
Our investigator asked for some more information from both parties. Mr S provided a quote
for an independent engineer for installing the boiler, which was broadly £350 cheaper than
Avivas fitting costs. Aviva confirmed Mr S had needed to replace one of his boilers in 2015.
But it said at that point, the policy didnt offer the same level of cover and didnt include
replacing a boiler. It had simply provided cover for a payment of £200 as a contribution
towards replacing boilers which were beyond economic repair. So thats what itd paid Mr S,
whod replaced his own boiler and got it fitted privately.
The investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He felt it was most likely that
Aviva had told Mr S he had to make up his mind about going ahead with the quote there and
then. And he thought Mr S had likely accepted Avivas quote because it was the middle of
winter and he felt he had no choice. He also thought Aviva had given Mr S the wrong
information about his policy terms and that the terms indicated he could have a free boiler
and pay someone else to install it. He recommended that Aviva should refund the difference
between its fitting costs and the quote Mr S had provided, together with interest of 8%.
Aviva disagreed. It said thered been no pressure on Mr S to accept the quote. It said Mr S
couldve gone elsewhere. Itd spoken to the person who provided the quote, who said every
customer with a boiler which was beyond economic repair would be told a free boiler was
available, but that they must pay installation costs. Hed said every customer has 14 days to
make up their mind, but in this case, Mr S had accepted the quote straight away and paid
the deposit.
Aviva explained that the policy had changed in 2017 to include cover for replacing boilers
that were beyond economic repair  it simply wasnt available before that date. It also
queried why Mr S had asked it to provide a quote if he wanted to use a private installation
company. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Aviva had treated Mr S fairly. I said:
The policy terms
Both parties accept that Mr S boiler was beyond economic repair when Avivas engineer
visited. So Ive looked carefully at the policy terms to see what cover Aviva provides in these
circumstances. The policy says:
Obsolete parts and BER -after 6 months
If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source,
replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will
provide for you, a quote for this work.
It continues:
Once your boiler has been replacedyou will be transferred to a similar policy without cover
for your gas boiler.
I think the policy makes it clear that Aviva will only find and replace a boiler if a policyholder
pays its engineers to do the installation. I dont think the policy suggests in any way that a
policyholder can benefit from Aviva providing a free replacement boiler but choose to get
their own private engineer to fit it. Im also satisfied that once a boiler has been replaced, gas
boiler cover ends.
This means I dont think Mr S had an option to get a free boiler from Aviva but organise his
own fitter. If he wanted to get a boiler installed privately, hed have also needed to find and
pay for a replacement boiler himself. Mr S chose to go ahead with Avivas quote, so Im
satisfied he agreed to pay its installation costs when he signed the agreement and paid the
deposit.
Aviva told us this cover only became available in 2017. Before that date, it didnt source and
replace boilers that were beyond economic repair  it simply made a £200 contribution
towards the cost of a new boiler. This is why Mr S was able to use his own private engineer
to fit a new boiler back in 2015  because hed had to replace the boiler himself.
Was Mr S pressured into agreeing to Avivas quote?
Mr S says Avivas employee told him he had to make up his mind about the quote there and
then. And that he wouldnt be covered anymore if he didnt go ahead with it. The policy
suggests that Mr S boiler wouldnt be covered once the replacement was done. So this
information would seem to be right. Avivas provided very detailed and specific details from
its employee about what happened, which suggest Mr S agreed to the quote immediately
with no quibble about the price.
Aviva came to Mr S home to provide a quote. I think the policy terms do make it clear that
Aviva will quote for this work. It seems to me that Mr S couldve chosen not to get a quote
from Aviva if hed wanted to use his own engineer. Or he couldve compared prices once
hed got Avivas and other quotes.
Even if Mr S did feel pressured into accepting the quote though, I wouldnt think hed lost outfinancially. Thats because the private quote hes sent us only includes the costs of fitting a
boiler he supplied himself. As I explained, if hed opted to use a private engineer, Mr S
wouldve had to buy his own boiler at his own cost. Boilers tend to start from around £600-
800 for budget models and increase in price. So the installation only quote doesnt seem to
be a true reflection of the actual costs Mr S wouldve incurred if hed had the work done
privately. It seems to me this would likely have been at least £1400.
Mr S paid Aviva around £1230 for the actual installation costs of the boiler. So I currently
think hes most likely better off financially as a result of Aviva replacing and installing the
boiler than he wouldve been if the work had been done privately.
Overall, I currently dont think Aviva has treated Mr S unfairly. And Im not planning to tell it
to pay him anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Aviva had nothing further to add.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional findings. He said the crux of his complaint was that he 
was told he had no other option but to accept its quote for installation (assuming he 
accepted the free boiler).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. Mr S wasnt obliged to arrange a quote through Aviva 
if he wanted to use his own engineer. But the policy terms and conditions are clear that if Mr 
S wanted Aviva to replace his boiler, he would be responsible for paying the installation 
costs. If Mr S wasnt happy to pay these costs, it was open to him to turn down the quote 
and arrange for his own engineer to source and install a new boiler for him.  And as Ive 
explained above, I think Aviva installing the boiler likely cost Mr S less than the cost of 
buying his own boiler and getting it installed wouldve done.
So overall, I dont think Aviva needs to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman