DRN-1565645
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Churchill Car Insurance, 
settled her car insurance claim following an accident.
What happened
Mrs S had car insurance with UKI. In September Mrs S was involved in an accident. 
The collision involved contact between the front of Mrs Ss car with a car in front (car A) 
and contact between the back of Mrs Ss car and a car behind (car B). All three vehicles 
were damaged.
Mrs S logged a claim with UKI. UKI settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. Mrs S was 
considered liable for the damage to car A and for the damage to the front of her own car.
Driver B was held liable for the damage to their car and the damage to the back of Mrs Ss
car.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair. She said she was stationary when she was hit by car B, and
this was the only reason she collided with car A. So, she complained to UKI.
UKI didnt uphold her complaint. It noted that there was no CCTV of the accident and driver
A said they felt two impacts. UKI said this suggested Mrs S collided with car A first, before
she was then hit by car B and pushed into car A for a second time. UKI noted that courts
place a lot of emphasis on the testimony of the driver at the front in circumstances such as
these.
So, Mrs S brought her concerns to our service. Mrs S felt this should have been a non-fault
claim. She also said UKI should have obtained more evidence including getting the police
report and getting a written account from the driver of car A.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint as they felt UKIs decision to settle the claim on
a 50/50 basis was not unreasonable based on the available evidence. Mrs S disagreed with
their view, so the matters been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with UKI and Mrs S so both had the
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings
were:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here isnt to decide whos at fault, but to look at whether UKI acted reasonably in
relation to this claim.
According to the general conditions of the policy, UKI had the right to settle the claim. But I
would expect it to reach a decision based on the relevant facts and evidence. And I dont
think UKI did enough to gather relevant evidence to inform its assessment of this claim  Ill
explain why.
Its clear Mrs S was able to provide her version of events to UKI. And as a result of this UKI
asked the representatives of driver B if they accepted full liability. It also asked the
representatives of driver A for their clients version of events. So, I think UKI took reasonable
initial steps to gather evidence for Mrs Ss claim.
In response, the representatives of driver B accepted only partial liability, suggesting Mrs S
was responsible for the damage to car A and the frontal damage to her own car.
The representatives of driver A said Mrs S was travelling at speed when she collided with
car A. They noted the driver of car A said they felt two impacts. And for this reason, the
representatives suggested Mrs S was liable for their damage.
As UKI noted, the driver of car A has no liability and so their evidence is more persuasive
here. And whether UKI has a realistic prospect of defending a claim in court is something I
think it can reasonably take into account when deciding whether to settle a claim.
But UKI didnt obtain any direct evidence from driver A. All UKI has is emails from their
representative suggesting Mrs S is liable. And I wouldnt necessarily say this was
unreasonable if these emails contained direct quotes or a clear account of driver As version
of events. But they dont. The only observation within the email which is directly attributed to
driver A is that they felt two impacts. So, whilst one email reports Mrs S hit car A at speed,
its not suggested this is driver As account of events. So, its unclear on what basis theyve
said this.
I appreciate that, as UKI has suggested, two impacts may well indicate that Mrs S hit car A
first before she was hit by car B. But Mrs S noted she felt multiple impacts during the
collision as her car spun out  but all were a result of the car B colliding with her. And I do
recognise there are other possible explanations for two impacts. For example, the possibility
car A was also hit by car B or that Mrs Ss car was spun in a way that meant she collided
with car A twice. When the full details of driver As account are unknown, Im not persuaded
that the fact they felt two impacts is sufficient evidence to fairly conclude its most likely 
Mrs S hit car A first.
Mrs S was concerned UKI hadnt obtained the police report nor any written account from
driver A. Given there was disputed liability and no CCTV or witnesses in this case, I can
understand why. I think its reasonable to expect UKI to have, at minimum, requested the
account of driver A to assist its review of the claim. I say this taking into account the fact it
relied on the reported content of this account when deciding to accept partial liability. I
appreciate UKI did initially request the full account, but it then didnt challenge driver As
representatives when this wasnt provided. And I think it should have done.
So, I think UKI should have done more to try and recover its costs. And I dont think it acted
in the interest of its customer here.
I dont have driver As account available to me, so its difficult to say what would have
happened had UKI made further enquiries. But Im aware Mrs S has told our service that
driver A gave a statement at the scene which matched her account of events. And this does
indicate that the evidence might have made a difference.
Insurers must accurately report on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database
how much they paid out on a claim. So, I think the fairest thing to do, given its possible a
more thorough investigation may have changed the way this claim was settled, is to directUKI to change the claim on CUE from bonus disallowed to bonus allowed ie. from fault to
non-fault. Which is something it can change.
And given Mrs S has been upset and inconvenienced by the way UKI has handled this
claim, Im minded to tell it to pay her a further £250. I think this amount fairly reflects the
worry and upset caused by the fact it didnt conduct a reasonable investigation into her
claim, taking into consideration the fact shed just been involved in a serious car accident.
Response to my provisional findings
Mrs S accepted my provisional findings.
UKI did not. UKI said it had no reason to believe the information provided by the 
representatives of car A was untrue, noting it was normal practice to rely on allegations 
made in this way. It also said Mrs S didnt tell UKI her vehicle had spun around after being 
hit in the rear. It said this would have made the situation more complex and would have 
warranted further investigation. But this was never suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what UKI have said about relying on representatives versions of events. And I 
agree this is sometimes reasonable, particularly when theres no reason to doubt the truth of 
the account. But in these particular circumstances and for the reasons outlined above, I dont 
think it was fair. Its unclear what driver As version of events are, and this is the sole basis 
on which UKI decided to accept liability. Given this seemed to contradict Mrs Ss version of 
events, I think it warranted further investigation. I say this taking into account the other 
possible explanations for two impacts, including the scenario of Mrs Ss car having spun and 
hit car A twice. 
Ive considered what UKI has told me about not being informed Mrs Ss car had spun. But I 
dont think its accurate to say it wasnt given information about this. I can see that in early 
September Mrs S sent UKI images of the scene of the collision in which her car is facing 
against the direction of travel. And in the email Mrs S stated that her car had not moved 
since the accident. So, I think UKI had evidence her car had spun and that this was a more 
complex claim which warranted further investigation. Taking all of this into account, Im not 
persuaded to change my findings here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
U K Insurance Limited to:
Amend CUE to show Mrs Ss claim as bonus allowed.
Pay Mrs S £250 for distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman