DRN-2740114
The complaint
 Miss E complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car which wasnt new and had covered 54,000 miles had a number of faults which arose 
within a few weeks of acquisition. These were repaired by the dealer and I believe the cost 
was covered by the warranty. One of the faults was a leak in the boot. This was addressed 
by refitting the tailgate seal.
Other issues arose in the flowing months and these were also repaired by the dealer. About 
a year after the leak in the boot had been repaired it reoccurred. In the job card dated 12 
November 2020 the dealer confirmed that water was found in the boot and it dried the wet 
area and removed and refitted the boot seal. That would appear to be the same remedy as 
applied a year previously. 
However, when Miss E complained MotoNovo arranged for an independent inspection. He 
was informed that on 17 November 2020 Miss E had reported that there was still a leak in 
the boot area and also there was a leak into the rear footwells which hadnt happened 
before. 
The inspection took place on 16 December and the inspector noted there was 
approximately an inch of water in the vehicles boot spare wheel recess/well. He went on to 
say: The nearside and the offside rear footwell carpets were noted to be damp. The 
nearside front footwell carpet was dry. However, the offside front footwell carpet was 
checked with our damp meter which revealed 45% plus moisture.
So a month after the car was dried out and repaired it was still wet. However, the inspector 
concluded that that these issues would not be related to the previous repair attempts which 
have been carried out to the vehicle and would not be considered the responsibility of the 
selling agent due to the elapsed time since the previous repairs were carried out.
I find this conclusion somewhat confusing. The car had been repaired and dried out a month 
previously, but there was an inch of water in the boot recess. He also notes that a damp 
meter reading of the offside front footwell carpet recorded 45% plus moisture. I cannot see 
how a car which had been repaired and dried out could have both standing water in the boot 
and 45% plus dampness in the carpets. 
I have noted above that the job cards for the two repairs to address the leaks appear to be 
very similar. On both occasions the seals were refitted. One refers to the tailgate and the 
other to the boot, but I believe these refer to the same part of the car given the leaks were 
both in the boot.    
I also note that the report refers to offside lower front door seal displaying smoke escape 
which indicates that there was a potential leak which had not been repaired.
Consumer law allows a merchant one attempt at repair. This service regards a car as a 
single entity and the one attempt at a repair should cover all issues. This car has had a 
number of faults some of which may be related to dampness e.g. the failure of reversing 
lights to work. Despite the first repair it would appear that the car still had a potential leak 
after the second repair. 
It is also important to consider the durability of the car and as our investigator has pointed 
out a car shouldnt leak and certainly two leaks in the space of a year is unreasonable. I 
gather this particular model is prone to leaking and that would suggest there is an inherent 
problem. Assuming that to be the case it would be reasonable to have expected the dealer 
to ensure it was fully repaired at the first attempt. So even if the second leak was unrelated 
to the first, I consider it would have been prudent of the dealer to have ensured all areas 
prone to leaking were inspected and repaired as a precaution.
Putting things right
 On balance I consider that Miss E should be allowed to reject the car. I note she has been 
able to make use of it so it is only right that MotoNovo retain all the monthly payments she 
has made up to the point the car is returned.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Miss E pay
2. Refund any deposit plus 8% annual interest simple from the date paid until repaid.
3. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mis E.
4. Pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman