DRN-3444711
The complaint
W, a company, complained that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Marsh 
Commercial (Marsh) didnt include a protected No Claims Discount (NCD)in their commercial 
motor insurance policy. They were represented by Mrs B
What happened
W bought their motor insurance policy over the phone from Marsh, their broker. Marsh didnt 
ask them if they wanted to protect their No Claims Discount (NCD) and the policy was set up 
without it. W said they only this found out when their vehicle was broken into and they made 
a claim. The insurer settled their claim for the incident, but Marsh reduced their NCD 
because of the claim.  
W said they would have taken the protected NCD option if Marsh had offered it. They felt 
that Marsh had mis-sold them the policy because their adviser didnt ask if they wanted to 
protect their NCD. They wanted Marsh to add the NCD protection, backdated to the start of 
the policy. Marsh did ask the insurer, but the insurer wouldnt agree. 
Marsh accept that they didnt ask W if they wanted to protect their NCD. But they rejected 
Ws complaint. They said that theyd sent the policy documents to W. Those made clear that 
Ws NCD was not protected, and that W should read them and contact them if it had errors 
or it didnt reflect what they wanted. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. W didnt agree and 
so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that when W bought the policy over the phone Marsh didnt ask them if 
they wanted to protect their NCD. Marshs adviser did ask if W wanted him to explain the full 
policy details over the phone, but they said they would rather he email them to them.
 
Marsh didnt accept that theyd made an error in not asking about protecting the NCD, they 
said that they just hadnt discussed protecting it. But they said it was clear from the policy 
information that Marsh had promptly sent W that W should contact Marsh if they felt it was 
incorrect because they had wanted to protect the NCD. But W hadnt queried that with Marsh 
or challenged it at the time. So Marsh thought that given W sufficient and appropriate 
documentation to fully consider the cover being provided. 
W also said that Marshs NCD wasnt protected in their previous policy with their previous 
insurer either. W had sent them a letter from that insurer which confirmed that. W thought 
that was irrelevant. However the investigator thought that it did suggest that W wouldnt have 
protected their NCD with Marsh either, even if Marsh had asked them.
Im not going to focus on what W might or might not have done, as I dont think thats the 
central issue, which is whether Marsh did anything wrong. 
Marsh are not obliged to offer a consumer any additional options when they take out a 
policy. What policy options an insurer offers are at their discretion as its a commercial 
decision for them, and we dont generally interfere with that. So I dont think there was any 
obligation on Marsh to offer W the option of a protected NCD to begin with. And W were 
talking out a new policy with Marsh, so its not even that W already had a policy with Marsh 
with NCD protection and Marsh accidentally dropped it off at renewal.  
I can see from Marshs file that promptly after W took out the policy by phone Marsh emailed 
W the policy documents policy booklet and policy schedule. Both of those do state clearly 
that W have an NCD, but it is not protected. The documents also say that if their details are 
incomplete or incorrect, W should contact their insurance adviser immediately, but W didnt 
do that. The policy also shows the effect of claims on an NCD that W has chosen not to 
protect. 
So I think that Marsh did they did what they had to do. We think that it is still up to the 
consumer to review their policy documents to check that their insurance policy is correct, 
and it is what they want. And so, although I see that W have found the situation frustrating, I 
dont think that Marsh did anything wrong and so I dont require them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
