DRN-4411364
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wouldnt refund money he paid by mistake.
What happened
On 25 July 2022, Mr H paid £445 to the wrong recipient  as he mistyped the account 
number. Both the intended recipient and the recipient paid in error (who I will call B) banked 
with Monzo. On 26 July 2022, Monzo tried to recover the money from B but there werent 
enough funds left in Bs account  other than £39.23, which was refunded to Mr H on 26 July 
2022.
Mr H complained. He said that as B also banked with Monzo, Monzo couldve contacted B 
quicker and likely recovered the money. He referred to Monzos terms and conditions  
which said that if money was received by a customer by mistake then Monzo could take the 
money from the receiving account. Mr H said if Monzo complied with their terms and 
conditions, he should get all his money back. Mr H said hes unemployed and needs the 
money to live.
Monzo said theyd followed their credit payment recovery (CPR) process  which meant 
that they had up to 20 working days to reach out to the recipients bank, who then had to get 
consent from the account holder to send the money back. But  there was no guarantee that 
this would be successful. Monzo offered to provide Mr H with the recipients name and 
address which he could use to try to recover his money. Monzo said that while they took 
action within their internal timescales, they might have acted sooner, and paid compensation 
of £40.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it and said Monzo should refund 
the remaining amount of money, plus compensation of £100. He said:
- Because B banked with Monzo, Monzo couldve attempted recovery faster than they 
did.
- He pointed to Monzos terms and conditions which said that if someone received 
money into their Monzo account by mistake, then they give Monzo permission to 
remove the money and return it to the sender.
- Although there werent enough funds available in Bs account on 26 July 2022, the 
terms and conditions dont say Monzo would only try once to recover the money.
- He said that Monzo shouldve monitored Bs account and returned the money when 
funds became available.
Mr B agreed, but Monzo didnt. They said:
- They contacted recipient customer B on 26 July 2022  in line with their internal 
guidelines, and then no funds remained.
- They couldnt contact B earlier  as the recovery was placed in a queue to deal with 
alongside other customers who had similar claims. They couldnt fairly prioritise Mr 
Hs case ahead of others.
- The CPR process was for 20 working days  and at the end of that time, no funds 
remained to pay back. Monzo couldnt be expected to (effectively) open a second 
CPR  to try to recover funds after the first one ran out. The CPR process was for a 
one time recovery from B.
- In Mr Hs chat with Monzo when he contacted them he acted there were no 
guarantees of success.
- Monzo said their terms and conditions regarding customers who made a mistaken 
payment  said the money couldnt be recovered (even though they would try to do 
so).
Monzo asked that an ombudsman look at Mr Hs complaint.
I made a provisional decision which said:
The relevant guidance here is laid down by the Faster Payments service. In January 2016, it 
issued guidelines concerning mistaken payments, and when amounts might be repaid.
The guidelines apply where:
a customer has made a payment in error;
theres clear evidence of a genuine mistake;
the recipient doesnt dispute what happened; and
the moneys still available. 
The guidelines further say that when its told about a mistake, the sending bank (i.e. Monzo 
in this case) must contact the receiving bank within two working days. If the mistakes clear, 
it should ask the receiving bank to prevent the money being spent. If the moneys still 
available and the recipient doesnt dispute what happened, the sender (i.e. Mr H) should get 
the money back within 20 working days. 
If its not possible to get the money back  for example, if its been spent ,the sender should 
be told about the outcome within 20 working days from the point of their enquiry. The 
sending bank should also tell their customer about other options, such as pursuing the 
recipient. (continued)
Ive looked at Mr Hs complaint with this guidance in mind. 
Payment in error / by mistake: Its not in dispute that Mr H made the payment by mistake. 
Availability of money: Monzo told us they looked at the recipients account on 26 July 2022 
and by then, insufficient funds remained  other than the £39.23 which was paid to Mr H. 
Monzo showed our service the recipients statements and that was indeed the case. So  in line the guidance which Ive referred to, Monzo couldnt refund any more money than they 
did  as it wasnt available.
Timelines: Monzo did try to recover the money the day after Mr H contacted them  i.e. 
within the two-day guideline Ive quoted. Mr H argues that Monzo shouldve done so earlier  
as B banked with Monzo. But the guidelines make no reference to where both parties bank 
with the same bank.  So here - I dont think its therefore reasonable to expect Monzo to act 
differently where thats the case.
And I agree with Monzos argument  that it wouldnt have been fair to other customers to 
prioritise Mr Hs claim ahead of theirs.
Monzos final response said they couldve acted quicker and paid compensation of £40. Im 
not sure why they did that  as they did act within the necessary timelines as laid down.
Our investigator has indicated that Monzo shouldve monitored Bs account throughout the 
20-working day period of the CPR to see if funds became available. The guidelines dont 
include that firms have to make multiple (or daily) attempts to recover funds -  and I dont 
think its reasonable to place such an onus on firms to do that. Ive also seen that at the end 
of the 20-working day period (23 August 2022) - there werent any funds available in Bs 
account to return.
Mr H has quoted Monzos terms and conditions for where money is put into a Monzo 
account by mistake (as was the case here). These say Its possible that someone may pay 
money into your account by mistake.If this happens, you give us permission to remove the 
equivalent amount from your account or return the payment to the sender. We dont need to 
tell you before we do this and we may also provide details about you to the senders bank to 
help them get the money back. Ive considered this  and I agree it gives Monzo the right to 
take back money from Bs account. But in this case  there simply werent enough funds 
available to do so, so I cant reasonably expect Monzo to refund the money if it wasnt in the 
account of B.
Monzo have said their terms and conditions also say regarding payment by an account 
holder (i.e. Mr H) : you won't be able to claim back money you've lost if:you gave us 
incorrect instructions or we can prove that the bank we sent your payment to received it 
(although we'll still try to help you recover your money). In other words  while Monzo will 
try to get the money back, theres no guarantees it will do so.
Therefore, overall and in the circumstances of this complaint, I think Monzo acted 
reasonably, and while I accept that Mr H will be disappointed by this provisional decision, I 
do not propose that Monzo need to do anymore here. (continued)
Responses to the provisional decision:
Monzo made no comments, but Mr Hs representative did. She said:
- I made three errors in the provisional decision: (1) that it was Mr H and not Monzo 
who asked for the ombudsmans decision (2) that I referred to Mr H as Mr B in one place (3) that I said £39.23 was received by Mr H on 26 July 2022  when it was 
received on 17 August 2022. And  that was after Mr H had to chase Monzo.
- The CPR process (giving Monzo 20 days to reach out to the recipient) conflicted with 
their terms and conditions where the recipient banks with Monzo. She quoted the 
term which said Monzo could take back money from one of its customers if it had 
been received in error.
- Monzo had admitted its error by paying compensation of £40.
- The recipient has committed an offence under the Theft Act 1968.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On my errors  I apologise for referring to Mr H as Mr B in one place, and I agree the refund 
was received on 17 August 2022, and not on 26 July 2022.
I said it was Monzo who asked for a review by an ombudsman  and that was the case. To 
clarify, what that comment reflects is our process which is:
- The investigator issues a view for agreement by (in this case) Monzo and Mr H.
- If either party doesnt agree with it, they can ask for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a full, fresh, and independent review. So  that may lead to a 
different decision, which is what has happened here. Its understandable that in some 
cases, that will cause some disappointment for one party or the other  where the 
decision is changed.
- In this case, Monzo didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at Mr Hs complaint.
Turning to Monzos terms and conditions. I considered that the effect of the term as regards 
the recipient  gave them the right to take money from the recipients account. But  that 
doesnt mean to say that Monzo are obliged to refund it to Mr H. 
As I said  theres a further term (as regards the payer  Mr H)  which says, you won't be 
able to claim back money you've lost if:you gave us incorrect instructions (although we'll 
still try to help you recover your money).  And its important to note that this term refers to 
the payer  Mr H. And it was this, added to the industry guidance that I referred to  that 
caused me to make the provisional decision I did.
Monzo paid compensation of £40  I looked at this again. Monzo paid it (for) delays in the 
service we provided to you and as an apology I have credited your account with £40.00. To 
be clear, I dont think that was an admittance that Mr H shouldve got his money back, but 
rather that he had to call Monzo to chase things up (as Mr Hs rep has said).
Mr Hs representative mentions the Theft Act 1968. I make no comment on that - as this 
service is an informal dispute resolution service which makes decisions based on fair and 
reasonable principles. Mr H may still be able to pursue matters though the courts (as our 
cover email will say), but thats for him to decide. Monzo did offer to provide the contact details of the recipient  if Mr H wishes to go down that route.
Im grateful for the points that Mr Hs representative has made, and I hope my comments 
clarify and address what shes said. But having reviewed Mr Hs complaint again, Im 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable that my final decision is unchanged from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman