DRN-1554017
 
Complaint
Ms M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Ms M took out a store card in 2001. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Ms M £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Ms M was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
Ms M didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms M would have been eligible for the policy. And based 
on Ms Ms circumstances at the time of the sale, for example her age and her employment, 
Im satisfied Ms M was eligible.
AXA had to make it clear to Ms M that the PPI was optional and needed Ms Ms consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Ms M says she wasnt aware she had been sold 
PPI. If she has been made aware, she says she wouldnt have taken it out because she says 
she did not need PPI.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Ms M 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. The credit agreement has a 
section for PPI. I can see that Ms M would have had to specifically sign to take PPI if she wanted to take it out. And it appears that she did sign to take PPI. If Ms M hadnt signed to 
take PPI  then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to Ms Ms account at this time. 
So, while I appreciate what Ms M has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that PPI was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Ms M 
chose to take it out. It follows that I think Ms M was aware she had been sold PPI.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Ms M to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Ms M. So, for example, AXA didnt have to ask 
about or consider Ms Ms existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Ms M.
But AXA did have to give Ms M clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Ms M all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and 
restrictions. So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Ms M 
off taking the policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
Ms M has told us that she would have been entitled to 12 months or more worth of 
sick pay from her employer, its not clear whether Ms M meant full pay or not. I 
havent seen any evidence of this sick pay. And I think its unlikely that she would 
have received 12 months of full sick pay given her employment at the time of the 
sale. Its possible Ms M may have been entitled to some sick pay but the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Ms M may have received and potentially 
for a longer period of time. It wouldve covered 15% of her repayments every month 
until the outstanding balance had been paid off or she returned to work. And it 
wouldve provided the same cover if Ms M lost her job. 
 
Ms M didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Ms M could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Ms M at the time of the sale. 
 
Ms M couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ms M was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Navneet SherOmbudsman