DRN-3839479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system including voltage optimiser which they say was 
misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2015, Mr and Mrs B purchasing a solar panel system (the system) from a company 
Ill call P. Mr and Mrs B financed this using a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In January 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding in that the feed-in tariff (FIT) payments and 
savings on electricity bills would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it thought the claim was made outside 
the time limits allowed by the Limitation Act. 
The CMC then referred the matter to us. We informed Shawbrook of the complaint. 
Shawbrook responded to the complaint to reiterate that it thought the claim was made out of 
time. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator said the claim under section 140 was not 
made out of time since the relationship between Mr and Mrs B and Shawbrook was still 
ongoing. But our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr and 
Mrs B or that their relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on them.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs B never received FIT payments because they werent told they had to 
apply to the scheme. 
They werent told the estimated payback time of 9 years stated in the quote was 
based on cash price  not what they would pay including the costs of the loan. 
The estimated performance in the quote is based on electricity prices that are higher 
than what Mr and Mrs B were paying at the time. 
The quote doesnt go into enough depth to compare the cost to Mr and Mrs B with 
the benefits of the system. They just relied on what they were told verbally. 
Ps sales reps were paid commission only, so if they didnt make a sale they didnt 
get paid. 
Shawbrook paid commission to suppliers as standard.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive considered whether there was a misrepresentation by P that created an 
unfair relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs B. 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 56 says 
that any negotiations between Mr and Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have 
been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. Section 140 allows the courts to award 
compensation where it finds a relationship between a creditor and debtor is unfair on the 
debtor. The courts can consider the relationship as a whole, which may include whether 
there was a misrepresentation by the supplier that induced a debtor to enter into the 
contract. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost to them on a month-to-month basis.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Bs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were told that the cost of the system was 
£8,200.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,200.00. The monthly payment was 
£89.44. The total amount of credit is £8,100.00 and the total amount payable would be 
£16,199.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear as well as the credit agreement. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the 
quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£8,200.00, it would cost Mr and Mrs B more than this as they had decided to pay for it with 
an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £493.82, which results in an average monthly income of £41.15. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £89.44. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £243.08 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £844.12. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together, and is less than the annual loan repayment, which means the quote shows the 
benefits would not cover the loan repayments in year one.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for only part 
of the year.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs B entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £87.98. For 
each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£87.98, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson 
went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the combined FIT income and electricity 
savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would be self-funding. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments such that the benefits would not cover the loan 
repayments from the start.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs B were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 14 the overall benefits that 
Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to 
enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs B have not received the benefits set out above. That is mainly due to them 
receiving no FIT payments, since they did not apply for the scheme. The FIT scheme has 
now closed. 
I can see the quote has a section about the FIT scheme which says the application form will 
be provided with the completion pack for Mr and Mrs B to submit the application. P could not 
do this for them. 
I understand the completion pack was sent via email. If Mr and Mrs B did not receive this, 
didnt understand it, or thought there was a different process, they couldve chased P after a 
month or two to ask why they werent receiving FIT payments. Had they done so they 
couldve applied for the scheme well before it closed to new applications in April 2019.
Ive seen nothing that shows the system is not generating electricity in line with the estimate 
on the quote and MCS certificate. So, had Mr and Mrs B applied to the FIT scheme, it is 
likely they wouldve received FIT payments in line with the estimates in the quote.
Because of this, Im not persuaded that it was a misrepresentation on the part of P to say 
that Mr and Mrs B should receive FIT payments. And I dont think P was at fault for Mr and 
Mrs B not receiving them. Even if it was, it appears that Mr and Mrs B have done nothing to 
mitigate the situation, which couldve been remedied had they taken action sooner. So, I 
wouldnt expect Shawbrook to compensate them for losses they couldve avoided. 
As a point of interest, the FIT scheme was replaced by the Smart Export Guarantee, which 
pays for electricity exported to the grid. Mr and Mrs B may be able to apply to that scheme, 
so could receive payments in future. They may want to discuss this with their energy 
supplier. Information on the scheme is available online at :
https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-and-social-schemes/smart-export-guarantee-seg
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than P predicted, the savings achieved through the 
energy generated by the system would be correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs B 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
The estimated payback time of 9 years in the quote has a note immediately underneath 
which states this is based on the cash price, and that payback time will fluctuate depending 
on any finance taken. The two tables highlighted above do take into account the cost of the 
loan. And I think Mr and Mrs B ought to have known how much they were paying overall, 
since this was stated on the credit agreement. I also think this wouldve been discussed with 
them at the time of sale. The quote directly compares the monthly loan repayment with the average monthly benefit 
during each year of the loan. And it shows a shortfall for the first four years. So, I think it 
wouldve been made clear to Mr and Mrs B that the benefits would not immediately cover the 
monthly payments 
The CMC says P paid commission to is sales representatives. But it has not provided any 
evidence to support this assertion. It has also provided a copy of a letter from Shawbrook 
referring to commission being paid as standard  but there is little context in this letter, and 
nothing to show it applies in this case. While in some cases that may have been the case, 
Shawbrook has confirmed that in Mr and Mrs Bs case, it paid no commission to P.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman