DRN-3063003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that TSB Bank plc charged them an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when they paid off their mortgage, because they had taken out a new mortgage on a new 
property also with TSB.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with TSB. They decided to move house, accepted an offer on 
their old property and had an offer accepted on the new one. They applied, via a broker, to 
port their mortgage deal to the new property because doing so would avoid the ERC on the 
old mortgage.
Unfortunately their buyer pulled out, and so did a second one. By this point the sellers of the 
property they wanted to buy were considering rejecting Mr and Mrs Ps offer so as not to 
incur further delay risking their own onward purchase.
Mr and Mrs P didnt want to lose their dream home. So they decided to proceed with the 
purchase before selling their own property  meaning they would have two mortgages 
running side by side for a few months. They say that they were expecting that when the old 
property sold and the mortgage was repaid, TSB would refund the ERC since they were 
staying on as TSB customers and it had written to their solicitor  before either completion  
saying that:
as your client is staying with us were going to waive the early repayment charge if 
they are not going to be starting and finishing on the same day, the charge will still 
need to be paid at first, but your client can then get a refund back from us. In order to 
be able to do this, the new mortgage will need to start within three months of the old 
one finishing.
Mr and Mrs P say they came within this, because the new mortgage actually started before 
the old one finished. So they expected TSB to refund the ERC. They said that if they had 
known they would have had to pay it, they would have gone to another lender which offered 
a lower interest rate.
TSB wouldnt refund the ERC, so Mr and Mrs P complained. It said the ERC couldnt be 
refunded both because there was more than three months between the two mortgages 
starting and ending, and because the two mortgages were not on the same interest rate. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, so TSB asked for an ombudsman 
to decide it. I came to a different conclusion  so, before I made my final decision, I issued a 
provisional decision to allow the parties a further chance for comment.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr and Mrs P took their old mortgage out in 2016, including a fixed rate of 2.74% 
running to December 2020. The terms of the mortgage set out that if it came to an 
end, an ERC would be payable. The ERC was set on a sliding scale, at 3% of the 
mortgage balance in 2019 and 1% in 2020.
There was a section in the offer headed What happens if you move house?. It 
said: 
You can take the following product(s) with you to a new mortgage on another 
property:
Fixed rate INT946

If you need to repay your mortgage to move home during the product rate 
period, provided you do not change lender (and, where the lender provides 
mortgages under more than one brand, you do not change brands), you will 
usually be able to take the terms of the product with you and they will 
continue for the remainder of the product rate period. In addition, if this is 
during an early repayment charge period, provided you borrow the same or a 
greater amount, you wont normally have to repay the charge.
This means their mortgage was portable. Porting doesnt mean transferring the 
mortgage itself to a new property  the old mortgage is paid off, and replaced with a 
new one secured on the new property.
The purpose of porting is to avoid an ERC, and what is ported is not the mortgage 
itself but the initial preferential interest rate  in this case, the 2.74% fixed rate  
which is referred to as the product in the extract Ive set out above.
This means that the old mortgage needs to be paid off, and then a new mortgage 
taken out  either simultaneously or up to three months later  to which the interest 
rate product is transferred.
An ERC is charged when an interest rate comes to an end early. This is because a 
lender lends funds it raises itself, from various sources, and needs the interest 
income to cover its own costs. If the rate ends early, further interest wont be paid so 
the ERC is charged as an estimate of the costs of doing so to the lender.
Porting ends the old mortgage  but doesnt end the interest rate, so no ERC needs 
to be charged.
That was, it seems, the initial plan here. But when Mr and Mrs Ps property sale fell 
through, they were no longer in a position to pay off the old mortgage. Therefore that 
mortgage would continue alongside the new one  even if only for a brief time  and 
so the interest rate product couldnt be transferred to the new mortgage because it 
was still on the old one.
I dont think the letter Mr and Mrs P refer to, sent to their solicitors, was misleading. 
With non-simultaneous porting, the new mortgage needs to start within three months 
of the old one ending  after, but no more than three months after  it ends.
I dont think that TSB misled Mr and Mrs P or led them to believe that the ERC would 
be refunded once their plans changed.
I note Mr and Mrs P were represented by a broker, and the broker kept TSB up to 
date with what was happening. When the sale of the old property fell through, the 
broker told TSB about that. And the broker requested that the whole of the new mortgage be put on a new interest rate (rather than the original plan of porting the old 
rate for the existing borrowing and putting the new further borrowing on a new rate).
Its not possible to port and also have a new interest rate. As Ive set out above, the 
essence of porting is that the existing interest rate was moved from the old mortgage 
to the new. Thats not possible if the whole of the new mortgage was on a new 
interest rate.
As Ive said, I dont think TSB misled Mr and Mrs P about what was going to happen. 
I dont know to what extent the broker explained the implications of keeping the old 
mortgage and putting the new one on a new interest rate  rather than ending the old 
one and porting the rate  but TSB isnt responsible for the advice the broker gave Mr 
and Mrs P in any case.
Its very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Ps plans had to change when they lost their 
buyer, and that this resulted in them being unable to port their mortgage and having 
to pay the ERC. But there was nothing wrong or unfair about that  its simply how 
things work whenever a new mortgage is taken out alongside an old one that keeps 
running.
And if Mr and Mrs P werent made aware that was the case or didnt understand how 
things work, thats unfortunate too  but it wasnt TSB that was advising them. As far 
as TSBs involvement is concerned, Im satisfied that the ERC was properly 
chargeable and that TSB didnt mislead Mr and Mrs P into thinking otherwise.
TSB did not make any further comments. Mr and Mrs P did not accept my provisional 
decision. They said they had told TSB that their sales had fallen through and TSB didnt 
explain the three-month window to them. It should have communicated better with them, and 
then they would have been able to make sure they werent in a position where they were 
paying the ERC. And they pointed to a separate problem they had had with a payment 
deferral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs P have said, but Im afraid I havent changed my 
mind. Mr and Mrs P werent dealing with TSB direct, they had a broker advising them and 
making the arrangements  so it was up to the broker to make sure they knew what was 
going on and to put the most appropriate arrangements in place. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, once Mr and Mrs P decided to retain the old 
mortgage and apply for a new one on a new interest rate, the possibility of porting fell away. 
From that point on, it was inevitable that they would have to pay the ERC  and it would not 
be refundable  if they paid off the old mortgage. Im satisfied that the ERC was properly 
payable, and Ive not seen any evidence that TSB misled Mr and Mrs P about that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 Simon Pugh
Ombudsman