DRN-4336686
The complaint
Mrs B complains British Gas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim under her home 
emergency policy. 
Any reference to Mrs B includes the actions and comments of her representative. And any 
reference to British Gas includes the actions of its agents.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mrs Bs home emergency policy provides plumbing and drains cover. The policy is 
underwritten by British Gas. 
In August 2022, she reported to British Gas that her property had a limited water 
supply.  
A British Gas engineer attended and spoke to the tenants occupying Mrs Bs 
property. The tenants said previous works had been undertaken by another company 
who had confirmed the leak was outside the propertys boundary. 
British Gas engineer said it, therefore, couldnt carry out works as cover is only in 
respect of damage / repairs inside the propertys boundary. 
Mrs B, nor her representative, were present at the initial site visit and said thered 
been a misunderstanding concerning the boundary and location of the leak. So, a 
second visit was arranged.
At that visit, British Gas engineer noted the water supply pipe was under a shared 
driveway and back gardens of neighbouring properties. And that it was under grass 
and slabs on the customers property. The engineer dug two excavations and traced 
the pipe to the boundary. The engineers report says they squeezed off the pipe and 
the meter was still spinning proving that the leak is off the property.
Based on this information, British Gas declined the claim. Mrs B arranged to have the 
repair works carried out by her own contractor but complained to British Gas saying it 
should be responsible for covering the cost of the repairs as she considered the leak 
to be within the propertys boundary. 
British Gas maintained its position but paid £40 compensation to recognise it should 
have provided a quicker response to Mrs Bs complaint. 
Unhappy, Mrs B brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. She was satisfied it was reasonable for British Gas to rely on its 
engineers report to decline the claim.
Because Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. But before I explain why, 
I want to assure Mrs B and her representative that Ive reviewed the information provided in 
response to our Investigators view. But ultimately, Im not persuaded this means British Gas 
should accept the claim, and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document which says the policy covers repairs in the event of 
breakdown or damage to your plumbing and drains and the water supply pipe within the 
boundary of your property. Here, the leak was to do with the water supply pipe, but the issue 
in dispute is whether the leak was within the boundary of Mrs Bs property. Mrs B says it 
was, British Gas says it wasnt. 
The policy defines property as a home and all the land up to your boundary  including 
any detached outbuildings. Mrs B says the terms and conditions dont state that if the repair 
is under a shared driveway, it wont be covered  and that importantly, the supply pipe isnt 
shared. 
Ive looked at the engineers report from the second visit and note they carried out 
investigative works before concluding the leak was outside Mrs Bs propertys boundary. I 
understand Mrs B doesnt consider the engineer to have carried out sufficient investigations 
to establish this. But, given they dug excavation pits and provided an explanation 
demonstrating how they concluded that the pipe was outside Mrs Bs boundary (by 
squeezing off the pipe), Im satisfied it was reasonable for British Gas to rely on this when 
deciding the outcome of the claim. 
Mrs B has said that when a leak occurred in 2017, her building insurance policy covered the 
repairs even though the leak was under the shared driveway and close to a neighbours 
garage. I understand why Mrs B considers this to support her position  as its been said that 
as the water supply pipe goes under the shared driveway British Gas cant attend to it. But 
simply put, the building insurance policy and the outcome of that claim has no bearing on 
this claim. Ultimately, these policies provide different cover and have their own terms and 
conditions and underwriters. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to say that because a previous 
claim was covered under a separate buildings insurance policy, that this current claim should 
be accepted by British Gas. 
Ultimately, British Gas said the claim isnt covered because its outside Mrs Bs property 
boundary. Whilst there might be disagreement about where the boundary lies with respect to 
the shared driveway, Ive seen evidence which persuades me that - regardless of this - the 
repair works would have been outside Mrs Bs propertys boundary. And Ive reached this 
conclusion having looked at the estimate and scope of works provided by Mrs Bs contractor 
(who completed the repairs). Notably, this includes the contractor needing to apply for a 
Section 50 licence - which is an application to install works on Highways Englands road 
network. If the works were within Mrs Bs propertys boundary, I cant reasonably see why 
such an application would be required. I also note the contractor would be making 
applications to the utility companies affected by the repair works  which again indicates the 
leak and repairs were outside of Mrs Bs propertys boundary. 
This, coupled with British Gas engineers report from the second visit, persuades me that British Gas decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. I appreciate this decision 
will be disappointing for Mrs B, but I hope, based on what Ive said above she understands 
why Ive reached this conclusion.
Compensation 
British Gas has accepted it could have responded to Mrs Bs complaint quicker - its paid £40 
compensation to recognise this, and Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances. 
I note a letter from British Gas to Mrs B includes information  though not sensitive in nature 
 about another policyholders claim. Understandably, Mrs B has said she would be alarmed 
if her details were shared with another policy holder in the same way. Whilst I appreciate her 
concern, from what Ive seen this hasnt happened, and so, I wouldnt award compensation 
for something which hasnt been realised and for which there has been no impact.
Whilst I understand Mrs Bs representative is aggrieved at having spent time corresponding 
with British Gas to try and get it to accept the claim, I dont consider it reasonable to direct it 
to pay further compensation when Im satisfied it fairly declined the claim. In any event, this 
Service cannot make awards for compensation in respect of third parties and so, Mrs Bs 
representative wouldnt be entitled to this even if I were persuaded British Gas service had 
fallen short. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman