DRN-2810575
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to pay a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs D booked a holiday abroad, and shortly afterwards took out travel 
insurance with Great Lakes which provided cover for her declared pre-existing medical 
conditions. The holiday was due to start on 20 April 2021.  
In March 2020, as everyone became more aware of the risk of Covid-19, Mrs D sought the 
advice of her doctor. Her doctor advised her against travelling. On 2 March 2020 her doctor 
wrote a letter To Whom It May Concern saying that, given the fluidity of the risk of 
coronavirus and Mrs Ds age, she would advise against travel to that particular destination. 
The doctor referred to risks associated with that destination and said, The uncertainty of the 
risk is sufficient to recommend in her case, not to go. 
Mrs D contacted the holiday company and cancelled her holiday. She had already paid for 
half of the cost of the holiday.  The other half of the holiday was due to be paid on 9 March 
2020. Mrs D didnt pay the balance and she put in a claim to Great Lakes for her lost initial 
payment.
In the intervening period, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential foreign travel. 
Great Lakes declined to pay the claim, saying that Mrs D was not covered if her reason for 
cancellation was fear of becoming infected with Covid. 
Our investigator said that, at the time of the cancellation, Mrs D wasnt covered for the 
explicit cancellation circumstances listed in the policy. However, the investigator said there 
was also an exclusion in the policy which said that no section of the policy would apply in 
respect of  you acting against the advice of a doctor. The investigator said she thought 
that Mrs D had cancelled because of medical advice and Mrs D would not have been 
covered by the policy if she had travelled against medical advice. She recommended that 
Great Lakes pay the claim.
In response, Great Lakes said:
I have reviewed the claim and my understanding is reason for cancellation was due 
to the risk of contracting Coronavirus during the trip dates. We accept the doctor 
advised this due to the age of the Insured, but Insurers had already taken into 
account their age when they agreed to provide cover for the trip. We also understand 
the Insured decided they did not wish to travel in view of the risk, however that does 
not mean that the decision is one covered by the insurance. We would refer to those 
insured events listed under the cancellation section and clearly the reason for 
cancellation was not due to the exacerbation of an illness, nor the onset of an injury, 
medically preventing travel.
Because there is no agreement, the matter has been come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator. I will 
explain why. 
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also including its agents and representatives. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive taken 
these rules and guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under What is covered, the policy says:
We will paydeposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted to pay), for 
your travel and accommodation which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you 
have arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, 
death
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, 
or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, 
fire, flood, or hurricane.
Mrs Ds reason for cancelling didnt fall within these terms, at the point she cancelled. So, 
under a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, her claim isnt covered. 
However, the policy also says, under general exclusions, you are not covered at all  under 
any section of the policy - if you travel against the advice of a doctor. 
Mrs D has provided evidence from her doctor stating that her doctor recommended that she 
not travel on her trip. If Mrs D had gone ahead and travelled regardless, she would have 
been travelling against medical advice and therefore would have had no cover whatsoever 
under her policy. I dont think this is a fair or reasonable position for Mrs D to be left in  to 
have no cover if she travelled, but also no cover if she cancelled. 
The policy also says:
What is not covered:
disinclination to travel, or continue travelling, unless your change of travel 
plans is caused by one of the circumstances listed under 'what IS covered
But, I dont accept that Mrs D cancelled her holiday solely because she was afraid to travel. 
She was no doubt concerned about the risks of travel, but she then, I think reasonably, 
sought her doctors medical advice on whether it was safe to travel. The doctor advised Mrs D against travelling, in the light of the risks to someone of her age, and the particular 
circumstances of the intended destination. 
I note what Great Lakes said in response to the investigators view of the case (see above). 
But there was, unsurprisingly, no specific reference to Covid in the policy at the time Mrs D 
took it out. I agree that disinclination to travel, because of Covid or any other reason, is not 
by itself covered by the policy  even if that disinclination is understandable. But, also, 
having that disinclination doesnt invalidate other legitimate reasons for making a claim.  
Even if Mrs D was understandably disinclined to travel for fear of Covid, I think her actual 
reason for cancelling the holiday was because of medical advice advising her against travel.
While Mrs D may not have developed an unforeseen illness under the strict policy terms, 
Im satisfied she was advised not to travel to her holiday destination by her doctor. As such, 
under the terms of her policy her cover could have been invalidated if shed gone ahead and 
travelled. While Mrs D may never have been in a position to actually travel because of the 
subsequent FCO advice, I think the advice given by her doctor on 2 March 2020 was the 
reason she cancelled her trip. I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable for Great 
Lakes to pay her claim based on the specific circumstances of the complaint. 
 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by accepting Mrs Ds cancellation claim, subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any applicable policy limit and/or 
excess. Great Lakes needs to add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum 
from the date of the claim until the date settlement is paid.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right, as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman