DRN-3621632
The complaint
Mr C complains Key Care Ltd mis-sold him insurance cover for his keys.
What happened
Mr C took out insurance with Key Care to cover his keys. The policy was renewable annually 
and has been renewed several times. He made a claim because his car key was faulty and 
worked intermittently. His claim was declined by the Key Care because the policy doesnt 
cover damaged, faulty, or broken keys. Mr C complained as he says he was mis-sold the 
policy and he wasnt told of the exclusions. 
Key Care doesnt think the policy was mis-sold. It says, when Mr C first took out cover, the 
sales operative made him aware only keys attached the fob are covered if lost or stolen and 
the policy doesnt cover damaged or faulty keys. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold because the agent explained Mr C would be covered for lost or stolen keys if 
the key was attached to the fob at the time of the loss. They also thought the policy 
documentation clearly explained the level of cover the policy provided, and there was an 
onus Mr C to thoroughly read through the policy information.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision for the 
following reasons:
He had cover with another business which underwrites Key Care policies, so he 
thinks all their policies cover broken keys. 
He feels he was induced into a policy which allowed him to be covered for every 
eventuality. 
Key Care have a responsibility to tell him the key points of the cover and what is not 
covered. 
He doesnt feel the impact it has had on his health has been addressed. 
He doesnt think the call recording the investigator referred to is the sales call and he wants 
to know the date of the phone call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr C, but Ill explain why.
Key Care has explained it was not informed of Mr Cs disability at the time of the claim or 
when the complaint was raised. So, I dont think it unreasonable it wasnt addressed in its 
final response letter to him. If its something Mr C would like it to address, hell need to raise 
that as a separate complaint. As such, I wont comment on it further here.
Mr C provided evidence of Key Cares terms and conditions which show cover is provided 
for broken keys, however these relate to other polices and not the one in question. I think its 
important to note Key Care administers policies on behalf of several insurance providers, but 
it is not responsible for determining the type of cover offered by each individual insurer or for 
setting the terms of the policy. Different policies will often give different benefits and levels of 
cover. And I dont think the fact some Key Care policies cover damaged keys means Mr Cs 
policy also does. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of his specific policy, and Im 
satisfied they state damaged keys are excluded from cover. 
When selling insurance, Id expect the sellers to provide clear, and not misleading 
information to its consumers to enable them to decide whether the policy is right for them. 
So, Ive considered whether Key Care gave Mr C clear information when he took out his 
policy, and Im satisfied it did. 
Key Care has shown Mr C phoned in April 2018 and it provided a copy of this phone call.   
Mr C clarifies at the start that he is calling about purchasing a policy. He goes on to discuss 
the cover it provides and confirmed he wishes to take out cover. Im therefore satisfied this 
was the sales call in which Mr C first opted to buy the policy.
During this phone call, I find the agent clearly states the policy would provide cover for lost or 
stolen keys but only if they had the fob attached at the time of loss. Ive also found this was 
highlighted in the policy documentation Mr C was then sent.
As it was made clear during the phone call that the policy was only for lost or stolen keys, I 
dont think the fact it didnt cover damaged keys needed to be highlighted. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied the agent also states in a clear and not misleading manner that the policy would not 
cover broken or damaged keys. So, I find Mr C was made aware of this exclusion before 
opting to take the cover.
Key Care confirmed Mr C was sent renewal letters which asks him to check the level of 
cover was still appropriate for him. I think the onus was on Mr C to read his policy 
documentation and ensure the policy still met his needs when it came up for renewal. He 
also had the option to cancel the policy if it didnt, but he chose not to.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr C was correctly informed of the cover his policy provided and I find 
the important exclusions were drawn to his attention. I understand Key Cares decision has 
been distressing to Mr C, but Im satisfied its treated him in a fair and reasonable manner. 
As such, I dont think Key Care needs to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman