DRN-3054073
The complaint
Mr T complains Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly returned a payment he made and closed his
account. He wants his account reopened, to be allowed to make payments and
compensation for how he was treated.
What happened
What follows repeats the same background facts which I set out in my provisional decision. I 
repeat them here for the purposes of issuing this final decision. 
Mr T held a current account with Lloyds. He opened it in 2009 when he was a student in the
United Kingdom. He moved from the United Kingdom to another country in 2010. He says he
used his account while living abroad for a long period without significant difficulty. He moved
back to the United Kingdom in 2021, where he now lives and works.
Mr T tried to make a payment to a management company in early 2020. The company is
based outside of the UK as well as the country where he then resided. He says the payment
represented a fee due in relation to a leasehold investment he holds in a hotel room.
Lloyds refused the payment. They sent him a letter saying the payment was declined
because of someone who is subject to international sanctions. They stated the name of the
person in their letter. Mr T explained to our service that this person is his uncle, whose name
is spelt differently to him and who has a different date of birth.
Lloyds decided to close Mr Ts account shortly afterwards. They sent him a letter giving him
65 days notice that his account would close. Mr T said he had less notice than this due to
the slow postal service in the country where he lived at the time.
Mr T thinks the closure of his account is based on his identity being mistaken with that of his
uncle, or he is being unfairly treated because of his familial relationship. He says he is not a
criminal and has no financial connections to his uncle. He finds it contradictory that he was
allowed to make an international payment to transfer his account balance to his wife.
I issued a provisional decision in which I decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I found:
Lloyds have a broad discretion to decide who they want as a customer. This doesnt 
mean they can act in breach of the law by closing an account. But it does mean they 
can generally decide to close an account when they want.
Mr T told us his uncle is the target of sanctions by another country. Banks, such as 
Lloyds, have important legal and regulatory obligations they must account for when 
providing accounts. They generally concern preventing or stopping financial harm or 
financial crime. And sanctions, whether imposed by the United Kingdom or by other 
jurisdictions abroad, are one of the things they need to comply with.
 
Banks need to have systems and controls in place to counter the risk that their 
services might be used in a way which might breach sanctions. I havent found that a 
bank is limited to only considering whether a customer has an existing financial 
relationship to the target of a sanction. And I havent seen any rule or law which 
prevents a bank from considering whether their customer might later form a financial 
relationship with a person targeted by a sanction. Neither have I seen that they cant 
consider any other relationship a customer has with such a person.
So, Im satisfied Lloyds didnt need to keep Mr Ts account open irrespective of
whether he has any financial links to his uncle or any other family member who is
targeted by a sanction.
Mr T worries that his future banking activity could continue to be negatively impacted 
because of Lloyds. I can understand why  its possible future payments he might 
make or products he wants to take out could be affected because of the systems and 
controls Lloyds or other banks have put in place.
But Lloyds are entitled to monitor payment requests related to Mr T whether they are
acting as an account provider or as a correspondent bank. So, I wont be asking
them to compensate him for the costs he incurred changing his name to avoid this
from happening or the embarrassment he subsequently experienced.
Lloyds stated the name of his uncle in its payment rejection letter which led Mr T to 
conclude they had mistaken him for his uncle. But I think its more likely Lloyds 
decision wasnt based on an error of fact, even if it came across that way. On 
balance, I find the payment was rejected with a view to complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Lloyds needed to ensure Mr T could move his funds before his account closed. The 
payment he made to his wife was permitted for this express reason. This is 
somewhat different to wanting to make an international payment in relation to an 
investment he held. So, I dont find that Lloyds acted in a contradictory way.
Mr T held his account for approximately 10 years when he was not resident in the 
United Kingdom. I cant see Lloyds looked to close his account for most of this time. 
But this didnt prevent them from closing his account when they did. They did not 
have to keep his account open because he wanted an account based in the United 
Kingdom or because at the time the account closed, he couldnt make international 
payments using another account.
Mr T may have received Lloyds notice to close letter several weeks after it was sent 
because of the slow postal service where he lived. But I find he still had a reasonable 
amount of time to move his funds elsewhere and make other arrangements. Lloyds 
werent obliged to keep his account open until he opened an account that offered him 
what he wanted.
Mr T responded to my provisional decision. He said it is unjust for him to be treated harshly 
for other peoples crimes, and it is unethical to discriminate against him because he shares a 
similar name with someone who is the target of a sanction. He believes Lloyds had a 
responsibility to investigate the payment he tried to make in greater depth, and he would 
have provided everything they needed to allay their concerns.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
Those reasons are repeated above and form part of my final decision. Ill now address the 
points Mr T raised after he received my provisional decision.
I understand why Mr T feels its unfair that his account was closed when he hasnt done 
anything wrong. But Lloyds didnt need to find that Mr T did something wrong to refuse his 
payment instruction and then close his account. They have a broad commercial discretion 
and their decision to close the account was not limited to only considering whether Mr T had 
financial links to his uncle.
Mr T feels Lloyds should have put more effort into looking into the payment he wanted to 
make. But again, they werent obliged to process the payment or ensure they provided Mr T 
with an account to allow him to make future international payments. They could still have 
refused the payment and closed the account even if they had investigated the payment 
further.
I dont find Lloyds decision was made because of an error of fact. Mr T himself 
acknowledges the person who is subject to an international sanction is his uncle, so not an 
unknown third party whom he happens to share a similar name with. I understand Mr T feels 
he has been discriminated against, but I do not find the basis of Lloyds decision was 
unlawful.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman