DRN-4089029
The complaint
Ms G complains that Leeds Building Society unfairly declined her porting application. She 
asks that it agrees to port her mortgage or pays compensation.
What happened
In mid-2022 Ms G applied to port her mortgage and LBS agreed. Her purchase fell through. 
Ms G found another property and made a new porting application. LBS declined the 
application saying it wasnt affordable for Ms G.
Our investigator said LBS was unfair to decline Ms Gs application. He said Ms G applied to 
port on a like for like basis and rules on mortgage regulation allowed LBS to waive the 
affordability assessment. Our investigator said Ms G had taken out a mortgage with another 
lender, and the terms were too different to calculate if there was financial loss. He said LBS 
should pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms G.
LBS didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms G applied to LBS to port her mortgage. LBS issued an offer in September 2022. The 
purchase fell through. Ms G found another property and made a new porting application. 
LBS declined the second porting application due to affordability in late 2022. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out affordability tests before offering or 
varying a mortgage. There are limited exceptions to this. One of these exceptions in set out 
in MCOB 11.6.3. This applies where a borrower wants to vary an existing mortgage without 
any additional borrowing (other than a product fee) or changes to the terms of the mortgage 
likely to be material to affordability. 
MCOB 11.6.3 doesnt prevent LBS from carrying out an affordability assessment, it only says 
that it didnt have to. But its unlikely Id consider it fair for LBS to use an affordability 
assessment to decline Ms Gs porting application if porting was in her best interests. 
LBS had concerns about Ms Gs application. It said there was adverse data on Ms Gs credit 
file and shed taken out borrowing since the previous application. It said her mortgage was in 
arrears. LBS was concerned this could suggests Ms Gs finances were under stress. It said 
Ms G was buying a more expensive property, which could mean higher running costs, and 
she had a shortfall for the deposit.
As I said, LBS could choose to carry out an affordability assessment and I dont think it was 
unfair to do so here. Affordability is relevant to its decision about whether porting would be in 
Ms Gs best interests. And I dont think it was unfair for LBS to ask questions about Ms Gs 
circumstances. 
Ms G told LBS she wanted to move nearer to her childs school, which was some distance 
from where she was living. She expected this would save her about £300 in petrol costs 
each month. Ms G said shed fund the deposit shortfall and moving costs with a gift from 
family and the sale of her car. She explained why the October 2022 payment was late (it was 
paid in November 2022). She said shed taken out a credit card to improve her credit rating 
and intended to repay the balance each month. Ms Gs mortgage account wasnt in arrears. 
The late payment in October 2022 was unusual. She made regular over payments and her 
account was in credit by about £5,000. Ms G said the property she was buying was a similar 
size to the property she was selling and she expected the running costs to be similar. Ms G 
said her credit history and having recently started a new job limited her options, meaning 
porting was her best option to allow her to move home.
LBS provided an email that said Ms G had asked about borrowing more (possibly this was 
for the shortfall which was then to be funded from a gift from a family member). But it 
appears from the available evidence Ms Gs porting application was for the same amount as 
her existing loan. I dont think it was right for LBS to suggest MCOB 11.6.3 didnt apply 
because Ms G had asked about additional borrowing, or because of her other credit 
commitments and the higher value of the new property. The exception in MCOB 11.6.3 
applies unless theres additional mortgage borrowing or changes to the terms of the 
mortgage contract likely to be material to affordability. I think the exception applied here, and 
LBS should have fairly considered whether porting a mortgage of the same amount was in 
Ms Gs best interests, despite any concerns about affordability.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think LBS did fairly consider whether porting would 
be in Ms Gs best interests. Of course, I cant now be certain that LBS would have agreed to 
port Ms Gs mortgage if it had fairly considered whether this was in her best interests. But I 
think its likely it would have done so. It had offered to port on a like to like basis in 
September 2022. Ms G explained why she needed to move and that this was likely to reduce 
her outgoings.
Declining Ms Gs porting application meant she had to take advice and apply elsewhere. 
This would have caused her inconvenience and worry. Ms G would have incurred costs, 
such as brokers fees, which shed have avoided if shed ported her mortgage with LBS.
Ms G took out a mortgage with another lender in March 2023. She says the interest rate is 
higher, and she paid interest at LBSs standard variable rate while her sale and purchase 
completed. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require LBS to compensate Ms G 
for her costs related to her new mortgage. Her new mortgage is too different from the 
mortgage she might have ported. In particular, the amount she borrowed was significantly 
more than her mortgage with LBS. I havent seen the advice and recommendation given to 
Ms G by her broker, but must assume there was a reason for her borrowing more. I dont 
think I can fairly compare the costs of this mortgage with the mortgage Ms G might have had 
if LBS had agreed to port her mortgage. 
Ms Gs interest rate product with LBS expired in February 2023. Even if shed ported her 
LBS mortgage shed have needed to take out a new product and its likely this would have 
been at a higher rate. Ms Gs sale and purchase completed in March 2023. I dont know if 
this might have happened sooner if LBS had agreed to port her mortgage. But I dont think I 
can fairly find that LBS was responsible for any delays with the sale and purchase process or with Ms Gs application to another lender. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require LBS to refund the additional interest Ms G paid while on its standard 
variable rate.
But I think LBS did cause upset and inconvenience to Ms G when it failed fairly to consider 
her porting application, and it should pay compensation for this. Ms G had a reason to move 
and was concerned that her circumstances meant her mortgage options were limited. Ms G 
had to take advice and apply elsewhere, which would have been inconvenient. I think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require LBS to pay compensation of £500 to Ms G 
for the worry and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Leeds Building Society to pay £500 to 
Ms G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman