DRN-1428791
 
The complaint
 Mr F has complained about the loans Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable.
What happened
 Mr F took six loans from Western Circle between January 2018 and April 2019. The last 
loan is still outstanding. A summary of Mr Fs borrowing is shown below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 16/01/2018 26/02/2018 2 £250.00 £181.22
2 26/02/2018 26/04/2018 3 £450.00 £220.74
3 18/05/2018 30/07/2018 4 £500.00 £215.67
4 30/07/2018 28/09/2018 2 £500.00 £339.62
5 30/11/2018 26/02/2019 3 £450.00 £224.52
6 30/04/2019 not repaid 5 £600.00 £190.38
Our adjudicator recommended Mr Fs complaint be upheld from loan 4 onwards. She felt that 
Mr F was showing signs of struggling to repay his loans because he was borrowing in quick 
succession.
Western Circle didnt agree. It said Mr F repaid all of his accounts either on time or early and 
his indebtedness stayed the same over the 15 months he borrowed from them. It also said 
there were gaps between loans 4 and 5 and loans 5 and 6 demonstrating that he wasnt 
reliant on credit. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
As there is no ongoing dispute about loans 1-3, my decision will focus on loan 4-6; those in 
dispute by Western Circle.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account all the key 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Western Circle lent to Mr F. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Western Circle. 
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Western Circle told us that it asked Mr F for his income and expenses and verified this using 
credit reference agencies and other third-party data. It also says it carried out a number of 
credit searches  although I have not seen any of this data; including the indebtedness data 
to which it referred in response to the adjudicators view.
I dont think it will always be appropriate or necessary to rely on a pounds and pence 
affordability assessment where there is other information available to support that a 
consumer may be unable to settle a loan sustainably. I think the way in which Mr F was 
borrowing here demonstrated that he wasnt managing his finances and was unlikely to have been settling his loans sustainably. This ought to have been apparent to Western Circle by 
loan 4.
I say this because this was Mr Fs fourth loan in just over six months and Mr F has been 
indebted for all but about three weeks during that time. Mr F had doubled his borrowing from 
£250 to £500. Returning the same day for a further £500 is not, in my view, a sign of 
someone managing their finances.  Mr F wasnt really repaying his debt to Western Circle. 
The repayment of loan 3 evidently left a gap in his finances, leaving him needing to borrow 
again the same day to fill that gap. 
Not only should Western Circle have been concerned about the way in which Mr F was 
borrowing, but I think by loan 4 Western Circle should have specifically asked Mr F about 
any other short term lending he had outstanding. I note the application asked Mr F to provide 
details of loan repayments and credit commitments, but it didnt specifically ask about any 
other short-term lending. If Western Circle had carried out proportionate checks, it would 
have discovered that Mr F had at least three other short-term loans outstanding. And as a 
responsible lender I dont think it would have agreed to lend loan 4.
The two-month gap between loan 4 and 5 (and between loan 5 and 6) was not, in my view, 
enough to suggest that Mr Fs financial position had recovered. By the time Mr F took out 
loans 5 and 6, I think Western Circle should have taken steps at that time to independently 
verify Mr Fs true financial position. Despite what Western Circle has told us, I dont think 
Western Circles checks achieved this and I certainly havent seen any evidence that it did 
so. I think if it had, it would have discovered that Mr F had seven other short-term loans with 
repayments due amounting to around £1,500. And as a responsible lender I dont think 
Western Circle would have agree loan 5 either.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Western Circles lending history with Mr F, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Western Circle should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Western Circle should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by 6. I 
say this because:
At this point Western Circle ought to have realised Mr F was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr F had taken out 6 loans within 15 months and Mr F had 
been indebted to Western Circle for almost 11 months of this time. So Western Circle 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr 
Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Fs first loan was for £250 and loan 6 was for £600.  At this point Western Circle 
ought to have known that Mr F was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Western Circle. Loan 6 
was taken out almost 16 months after Mr Fs first and was extending his 
indebtedness by a further five months. And it was for a larger amount. Mr F had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Western Circle over an 
extended period.
 I think that Mr F lost out because Western Circle continued to provide borrowing from loan 6. 
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit. The number of loans and the length of time they were taken over was more 
likely than not to have had negative implications on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 as well as loans 4 and 5 and Western Circle 
should put things right as set out below:
Putting things right
 Western Circle shouldnt have given Mr F loans 4, 5 and 6.
I understand that there is still an outstanding debt and Western Circle still owns this debt.
A. Western Circle should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F 
towards interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 5.
 
B. Western Circle should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Western Circle should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 
6, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr F having made 
overpayments then Western Circle should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Western Circle should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr F. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Western Circle should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr F. 
 
E. Western Circle should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file 
in relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing for loan 6 means 
any information recorded about it is adverse, so Western Circle should remove this 
loan entirely from Mr Fs credit file. Western Circle do not have to remove loan 6 from 
Mr Fs credit file until it has been repaid, but Western Circle should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about this loan.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to deduct tax from this interest. Western 
Circle should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax Western Circle has deducted, if 
he asks for one.
 
My final decision My final decision is I partly uphold Mr F's complaint and Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) should put things right for Mr F as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman