DRN-4232950
The complaint
Via a professional representative, Mrs W complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio), 
provided her with a catalogue shopping account that she could not afford, and twice 
increased the credit limit.
What happened
In October 2018 Studio approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of £500 
for Mrs W. In April 2019 it increased that limit to £650, and again to £850 in March 2020.
It would seem that in the past couple of years Mrs W has had some difficulties making 
repayments, but that the account remains open and in good standing.
In January 2023, Mrs W complained to Studio. After it rejected her complaint, Mrs W brought 
the case to our service. One of our investigators looked at the evidence and thought that 
Studio hadnt done anything significantly wrong. Mrs W doesnt accept that, although hasnt 
said why, and asked that the case be passed to an Ombudsman for review.
She also initially complained about an historic account with Studio. However, our investigator 
explained why that complaint was not within our jurisdiction, and Mrs W accepted that. So 
this decision will only consider the account opened in October 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Studio was required to carry out sufficient checks to determine whether Mrs W would be 
able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in a sustainable way. The 
rules in place dont require any particular or named evidence to be gathered, or that a 
business automatically verifies everything it is told by a customer. Simply that the checks 
be proportionate.
Studio used a high-level credit check in order to decide whether to approve her application in 
October 2018. It also says it used information obtained from Mrs W in its checks, but Ive 
seen no evidence of what that was.
The credit check was not a detailed credit file review, but instead gave summary headlines 
about Mrs Ws financial management and indebtedness. I can see it raised no concerns 
which ought to have led Studio to either ask further questions or to turn down her 
application. Whilst it showed that she was in an arrangement to pay on another account, in 
the round, given her low level of indebtedness, and the fairly modest credit limit it was 
approving, I dont think that in isolation was enough to indicate the need for further checks.
By the time of the first credit limit increase to £650 in April 2019, Studio again used high-
level credit file information, along with how Mrs W had managed this account in the 
preceding six months, when assessing whether it was fair to offer her additional borrowing. 
Credit file information continued to reveal nothing of serious concern, and apart from one 
late payment, her management of the account was sound. So at that stage, I think Studios 
checks went far enough and increasing her credit limit was not unreasonable.
The investigator thought that at the time of the second and final credit limit increase in 
March 2020, Studios checks continued to be proportionate, all things considered. I 
disagree, but as it ultimately makes no difference to the outcome of this case, there is no 
need for me to set that out in a provisional decision.
Whilst I acknowledge that the second credit limit increase to £850 was relatively modest, 
and that high level credit file information revealed nothing of significant concern, I also note 
that from October 2019, Mrs W appears to have struggled to remain within her credit limit 
on the account. As a result there were multiple charges levied, and overall I think it would 
have been prudent for Studio to have asked further questions before increasing the credit 
limit again.
However, this makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint as I have no evidence 
to demonstrate what Studio would most likely have found had it undertaken more in-depth 
checks. Whilst not explaining why Mrs W didnt accept the investigators view of this case, 
her professional representatives also said they would be providing further. However, 
nothing has been forthcoming.
So, although I dont think Studios checks went far enough in March 2020, I have no 
evidence to suggest more in-depth checks would most likely have shown that the credit 
limit increase was not affordable and sustainable for her.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Studio doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman