DRN-3748909
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was misinformed by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) about 
the charges applying to his pension plan. He would like the charges refunded.
 
What happened
Mr J says he queried the charges on his personal pension plan with Aviva in September 
2013. He was told there was only an annual management charge of 0.45% and a further 
annual charge of 0.25% on certain funds. He says based on this information he decided to 
keep the pension with Aviva. Subsequently Mr J suspected the charges were higher than 
this based on external fund performance data. He queried this on several further occasions 
but was always told there were no additional charges. He then received updated annual 
review documentation from Aviva which detailed transaction charges in addition to the 
annual fees. 
Mr J complained to Aviva about this in November 2021. It confirmed there were transaction 
charges in addition to the annual management charges it had stated. Aviva apologised for 
providing incorrect information. It said it had previously only confirmed explicit fund charges 
such as the annual management charge. It said transaction charges were implicit and 
reflected in the actual fund prices rather than being deducted from his plan directly. It offered 
Mr J £75 in compensation for the misinformation.
Mr J said hed been charged more than he was told and hadnt been able to make fair 
comparisons with other pension providers contracts. He said Aviva should refund the 
transaction charges and lost investment return caused by them in the period between 2013 
and 2021, when he was provided with the correct information. Based on the statement for 
2021, Mr J calculated he was owed £3,094.68 in total.
Aviva said the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the plan clearly stated that amounts would 
be deducted from investment funds to cover both dealing expenses and management 
charges. And Mr J had accepted the T&Cs when he took the plan out, so it couldnt agree 
the refund he had calculated. It said until recent changes introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) there had been no requirement to detail transaction expenses on 
annual statements. It paid Mr J a further £50 in compensation for the earlier misinformation.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
She said Aviva accepted it had made an error in giving incorrect information and that it 
should have more thoroughly checked the overall charges when Mr J queried them. 
However, she said it had fairly resolved his complaint and the compensation offered was 
reasonable. Because the transaction charges had been disclosed and had always applied to 
the plan. She said the new annual statements Aviva now provided merely disclosed details 
of these costs for the first time.
Mr J didnt agree and made a number of points.  He said it wasnt reasonable for Aviva to 
argue its staff didnt know about the transaction charges. He compared it to being told a 
holiday would cost £10,000, but actually being charged £13,000 for it. And it wasnt a 
legitimate justification to say this was fair because the charges had always been applied. 
He said hed continued to use Aviva based on this incorrect information and that his fund 
was worth less than it would have been if they hadnt been applied. Our investigator said the 
holiday industry worked in a completely different way to the pension industry. Mr J asked if 
he could be pointed to:
the rule or regulation which says there is no requirement for the service provider to 
honour the price and charge information given to the customer 
as Aviva had explicitly told him there were no transaction costs.
As Mr J doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Mr Js frustration here, but I dont think Aviva has treated him unreasonably. It 
accepts it made an error and has offered reasonable compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
The possible difference between the quoted management charges of a product versus the 
actual total charges, including expenses, sometimes referred to as the total expense ratio or 
TER does cause confusion. As Aviva has said the management charge is explicitly stated. In 
this case at 0.45% p.a. on Avivas own funds. But there are other costs and expenses as 
well. And these were referred to in the T&Cs of the plan provided to Mr J when he took it out 
without being specifically estimated.
Mr J was also very likely provided with an illustration when he took out the plan. The 
calculations used to produce a pension illustration are complex and are set out by the FCA 
in the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS 13 Annex 2). These include how charges should 
be reflected and say that assumptions about charges: 
must not include the firms dealing costs incurred on the underlying portfolio (2.6 
(2))
Rules introduced by the FCA for investment funds a few years ago provide more information 
about total charges. Aviva has decided to provide this information for all pension plans in the 
annual statements it provides. Historically there was no requirement for these costs to be 
specifically identified, in part because they are usually only known after the event, so could 
be higher or lower in future. And as Avivas actuarial department has noted in the response 
to Mr Js complaint, in the past it didnt collate such information at an individual customer 
level. 
By researching the underlying funds Mr J gained a more accurate picture of what these 
charges had been and how theyd impacted the net return of the funds. It may be that other 
pension providers would have been able to identify these additional charges, but these 
wouldnt have been reflected in any illustrations prepared for comparison purposes. And for 
those funds Mr J invested in which werent directly managed by Aviva the extra costs 
involved are likely to have been similar had they been held via another pension provider. I do understand Mr Js holiday analogy, but a holiday is typically a short duration one off 
event, even if booked well in advance. And I dont think it is a fair comparison to a long-term 
pension plan that might run for 30 years or more, where the number and cost of investment 
transactions (which involve third parties) would be unknown. And whilst Avivas staff did 
make an error in explaining the charges Mr J had already agreed to these additional implicit 
charges when he took out the plan, where they are referred to as Deductions in the T&Cs: 
we will deduct from each investment linked fund the amounts we believe are needed 
to pay for':
- expenses connected with buying and selling assets, (this relates to transaction 
costs)
- our management charges as explained under the charges section.
It is the T&Cs accepted at outset that form the basis of the contract between Mr J and Aviva. 
That there will be charges in addition to the management charges is clearly disclosed, so I 
cant say hes been treated unfairly or charged anything he hadnt actually agreed to. And 
these charges wouldnt have been reflected on illustrations prepared at the time.
Aviva accepts it made an error in confirming the charges and I think the £125 already paid in 
compensation for the error made is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman