DRN-2354039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how esure Insurance Limited managed a claim for fire 
damage under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint 
and that esure should pay an additional £500 compensation on top of the £400 it had 
already offered.
The provisional decision sets out the background to the complaint but in summary, their 
home and contents were badly damaged by fire and one of their children was seriously 
injured.
Mr and Mrs O had complained about several issues including but not limited to;
- Arrangements for alternative accommodation (AA)
- Payment for AA
- Standard of repair work
- Leaving the home exposed to weather, which caused further damage
- Poor communication and lack of support
- Being out of their home longer than necessary because of avoidable issues
- esure had already offered them £400 compensation but they felt £5,000 was 
warranted
In my provisional decision I found there were issues;
- with AA arrangements and payments, esure hadnt been able to offer anything locally 
and so Mr and Mrs O found their own remedy
- with communication, extensions and payments
obut I was satisfied the house was habitable when they moved back in.
- with avoidable delays in completing the repair works
- with Mr and Mrs O having to insist and persuade esure there were issues with the 
works, which esure eventually accepted 
obut I was satisfied it was for them to substantiate their contents claim, which 
unfortunately they had to spend much time on to complete
oand I was aware that some of the works (windows) were not part of the 
insured works
To put things right, I said it was important to note that esures duty was to handle the claim 
promptly and fairly and to look at the impact on Mr and Mrs O where this didnt happen.
esure had already accepted there were failings and offered £400 compensation. I said the 
poor handling caused delay, distress and inconvenience which I thought had a substantial 
impact on Mr and Mrs O. They had to wait several months longer to get back into their home 
because esure failed to meet completion deadlines. And they had to chase esure about AA 
matters and remonstrate about the poor standard of repairs, which in the end led to them 
accepting a payment for completion of the outstanding issues themselves. Having 
considered the impact very carefully I thought Mr and Mrs O were substantially
impacted by the errors made during the claim. And so, I thought esure should pay them a 
further £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Replies
Mr and Mrs O were satisfied with the provisional decision but esure wanted me to look at the 
issues again. In short, esures view is that matters were generally dealt with and resolved 
within reasonable timescales. And while the original repair timescale wasnt met, that was 
factored in to the original compensation offer of £400. It wasnt responsible for issues with 
the velux windows but agreed to repair as a gesture of goodwill as they didnt fall within the 
insured work. And so, esure thinks this should be factored in as part of the overall 
compensation. esure said it did though recognise that not everything was to Mr and Mrs Os 
satisfaction.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, and considering esures reply very carefully, Im not 
persuaded to change my view on what fair compensation is. I have looked at the totality of 
esures handling and already acknowledged issues such as the private window works. But 
the reality is the original scope of how long the repair works would take was significantly out 
of line with what occurred. And indeed, the works werent completed as a cash settlement 
was made so Mr and Mrs O could complete remaining issues.  
esure has the benefit of experts and experience in handling large and complex claims such 
as Mr and Mrs Os. Things did go wrong in a number of ways that Ive set out and these had 
an unnecessary impact on Mr and Mrs O. Ive balanced that with the unavoidable stress 
arising from the fire, such as being out of the home and having a seriously injured child. And 
so, while dealing with the claim, all the more important that esure ensured it was handled 
promptly and fairly. It didnt always do this, and a fair reflection of the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused, in my determination, is an additional £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs O £500 
compensation, which is in addition to the £400 it has already paid.
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs 
O accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman