DRN-1750857
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc didnt identify that a fraud was taking place on his 
account and didnt apologise. He wants an apology and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The complaint is brought on his behalf by his daughter.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card account with TSB and his wife is a second cardholder on the account. 
In October 2019 Mr M received his September statement and was shocked to see there had 
been over 100 transactions to an online retailer which he says he didnt authorise. The 
transactions totalled more than £6,000.
Mr M phoned TSB to dispute the transactions. It cancelled Mr and Mrs Ms cards and issued 
new ones. It refunded the transactions and made adjustments for the interest charged to put 
Mr M back in the position he would have been in if the transactions hadnt taken place.
Mr M remained worried about what had happened and arranged a meeting at his local 
branch. The manager agreed to raise a complaint for him. 
In response to his complaint, TSB said that the measures it puts in place to prevent fraud do 
not recognise or identify fraudulent card use on every occasion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
TSB had taken action quickly to reverse the transactions and that it had apologised to Mr M 
in reply to his complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. His daughter said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr M carried out few online transactions and hed never used this retailer before.
Its not acceptable to suggest that, had he had access to online banking, the fraud 
would have been identified sooner.
The branch manager agreed these transactions should have been identified by TSB 
as fraudulent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was a victim of fraud. And understandably this was a distressing experience for him. It 
would have also caused some inconvenience because he had to contact the bank to put 
things right and he was without his credit card for a few days. I need to decide whether TSB 
did anything wrong and, if it did, whether this added to his distress and inconvenience at an 
already upsetting time. And whether it needs to compensate Mr M for this.
When Mr M phoned TSB to tell it he hadnt authorised the transactions, the bank cancelled 
both cards and re-issued new ones. It investigated the transactions and within three days 
had re-credited Mr Ms account and adjusted the interest charges. I find it acted quickly to 
put Mr M back in the position he would have been in if the transactions hadnt happened.
I appreciate Mr M and his daughter feel strongly that, in the circumstances here, the 
transactions should have been identified and stopped. And they say that the branch 
manager agreed with them. 
Ive considered this carefully, but I cant conclude that TSB has done anything wrong. TSB 
has measures in place to prevent fraud. It told Mr M that there is no guarantee that the 
measures it takes will prevent fraud on every occasion. And I think thats right. Whilst 
I accept these transactions were numerous and for a retailer that Mr M had not used in the 
past, Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that TSBs systems werent working. So I cant 
conclude that it made a mistake.
Mr Ms representative said it was wrong to suggest the fraud would have been identified 
earlier if Mr M had had access to online banking. This isnt something that TSB suggested. 
Our investigator made reference to the fact that Mr M didnt have online banking, but this 
was purely a factual statement. I dont find anyone is suggesting that Mr M should shoulder 
any blame for what has happened here.
TSB acknowledged this was a frustrating experience for Mr M and it apologised for the 
problems it caused him. For the reasons Ive outlined, I dont find it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman