DRN-3729392
The complaint
Mr K and Mr K are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim for their cancelled trip.
Mr K and Mr K are brothers and they are being represented by their father on this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The annual policy was purchased by Mr K and Mr K on 29 November 2021 and the 
start date was specified on the online application as 19 December 2021. I appreciate 
that one of the brothers tested positive the day before they were due to fly and 
therefore cancelled their trip on that same day - 18 December 2021. However, based 
on what Ive seen, the policy didnt commence until 19 December 2021. So Mr K and 
Mr K have no cover under their policy for what happened. The policy was simply not 
in place and there are no sections of the policy that would apply.
I understand UKI said in a telephone call that the claim would be paid. However, 
once it had reviewed the terms of the policy and the start date, it subsequently 
declined the claim. I acknowledge that the service provided could have been better 
and based on the evidence available, I also agree that £50 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation in recognition of this poor service. 
Ive considered Mr K and Mr Ks comments. Theyve said new medical conditions 
would be covered and the policy covers cancellation due to the illness of a 
policyholder or a close relative. Unfortunately, neither of these scenarios would apply 
as, at the point of cancellation on 18 December 2021, there was no policy in place, 
and it didnt start until 19 December 2021. So even if cover for these scenarios might 
have been available, it wasnt on 18 December 2021. No sections of the policy 
provide cover on the day the trip was cancelled on 18 December as it hadnt 
commenced.
Im satisfied that UKI didnt decline Mr K and Mr Ks claim unfairly or unreasonably. I 
think £50 is fair and reasonable offer of compensation for the lack of clear 
communication - if UKI hasnt already made the payment to Mr K and Mr K, it should 
now do so. UKI doesnt need to do anything further.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Mr K and Mr K will be disappointed, I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr K and Mr Ks complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman