DRN-3418875
The complaint
Mr H says One Insurance Limited provided poor service to him after he made a claim on his 
motor insurance policy and his car was written-off.
What happened
When Mr H called to make a claim, he thought there was some damage to his cars gearbox 
after an impact with an object in the road and wanted it to be repaired. After an inspection by 
its garage, One Insurance told Mr C on 30 July 2020 that the car was a total loss. Mr H didnt 
accept that. He thought the garage may have caused further damage, and he disagreed with 
the valuation One Insurance had placed on the car. A complaint was raised in August 2020. 
One Insurance sent a final response letter to Mr H in October 2020 offering him £3,697 for 
the car, plus £150 compensation for its poor contact. 
Mr H didnt provide his bank details to One Insurance as requested. He said that was 
premature, as he hadnt yet agreed to a settlement. Mr H called it in December 2020 to say 
hed heard nothing further and felt hed been forgotten. In March 2021, following further 
comments from Mr H disagreeing with One Insurances stance, it told him he should contact 
this service. Mr H did so whilst continuing to dispute the proposed settlement.
We asked for the business file on 5 May 2021. Our request stated (amongst other things) 
that Mr H wasnt happy with the offer for his car - and that he wanted to know when hed get 
it back. As there was no response, we sent the file request again two weeks later, and again 
on 22 July 2021. One Insurance sent its file to us on 15 September 2021. Meanwhile, it had 
disposed of the car. It sent Mr H a letter on 21 July 2021 giving him 14 days notice, but Mr H 
didnt get it. As it hadnt heard from him, One Insurance cleared the car for sale in August 
2021 and sold it in September 2021. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He thought the valuation of his car was 
correct. But he thought there were avoidable delays and poor communication on One 
Insurances part. He didnt think Mr H knew about the valuation initially or that One Insurance 
intended to settle the claim based on it. He said as the claim hadnt been settled - and One 
Insurance had been made aware by us that Mr H wanted the car back - it shouldnt have 
been disposed of. After noting further comments from One Insurance, the investigator still 
thought it shouldnt have disposed of the car. But he reduced the compensation he thought it 
should pay Mr H to £300. One Insurance disagreed with the investigators view  and it said 
the car was sold before it saw our file request.
As there was no agreement, the file was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance has provided engineering evidence to show that there was more damage to 
the car than Mr H had anticipated. Theres nothing to show that the garage caused any 
further damage to it when it was collected or afterwards. I think it was reasonable for One 
Insurance to rely on the engineers opinion and to write the car off. I also think it was 
reasonable for it to offer Mr H £3,697 for the car. The sum was based on the figures 
provided in the national trade guides. We think using the guides is the fairest way to 
determine a vehicles likely pre-accident market value. 
 
As Mr H wrongly believed the car was worth much more than One Insurance had offered 
him, he didnt accept the sum it had offered. I think One Insurance should have done more to 
move the claim on, and to discuss all the options with Mr H, especially after he disputed its 
final response letter and refused to provide his bank details to it in October 2020. Theres a 
note on its file in December 2020 that says it didnt get a response to the final response letter 
from Mr H, but according to the other notes on the file, thats not the case.
 
I think it was reasonable for One Insurance to point out to Mr H that he should contact us if 
he wanted to escalate his complaint. He remained in contact with it after that and asked for 
documents and for a further explanation about the cost of repairs throughout April 2021. 
Communication and activity on the claim seem to have stopped after then until July 2021, 
when One Insurance noted (incorrectly) that there had been no contact from us  so it 
thought it would be appropriate to dispose of the car.
By the time the car was cleared for sale, wed requested the business file from One 
Insurance three times. It says our third request (in July 2021) was picked up, but not until 
September 2021. Its not clear why - but I think One Insurance had sufficient notice that Mr H 
wanted his car back, through our emails to it. I dont think it was necessary for him to have to  
tell One Insurance that directly, especially when he hadnt accepted the settlement. He had 
no reason to think the car would be sold without his knowledge or consent. 
We think its fair and reasonable for a car to be disposed of when a consumer has been paid 
the market value for it. Until that point, its open to the consumer to ask for their car back. If a 
consumer has said they dont accept the valuation - and has indicated that they believe the 
vehicle could be repaired for much less than a garage has suggested - I think its quite likely 
that the consumer may want the car back, in order to get it repaired themselves. 
One Insurance can show that it issued a 14-day disposal notice to Mr H in July 2021. We 
usually say that if an insurer can show a letter or email was generated on its system, and 
was addressed correctly, it isnt the insurers fault if it wasnt received. That applies here, but 
I think its very likely that Mr H didnt get the letter. As hed contacted us by then, I think hed 
have passed it on to our investigator. I havent seen anything to show that One Insurance 
tried to contact Mr H by email or phone to check hed received the letter, or that it contacted 
him again about the disposal. And we had advised it that he wanted the car back.
I think One Insurance needs to pay Mr H the cars market value, as offered previously. It has 
accepted that he had to call it for updates and that it didnt contact him enough - and the file 
shows that there were inexplicable periods of inactivity on its part. I think One Insurance 
should have done more to move matters forward. In my opinion, Mr H was inconvenienced 
by the claim dragging on, as well as upset to find that the car had been disposed of and had 
a new owner. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for One Insurance to pay him £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mr H 
£3,697 for his car (as already offered). It should also pay him £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman