DRN-2234480
The complaint
Mrs R complains Santander UK Plc lost or misplaced £500 from a deposit she made in 
branch. She wants Santander to refund this sum.
What happened
Mrs R has been a customer of Santander for some time, holding a credit card account and a 
current account.
Mrs Rs has recently sought clarification on several amounts she paid via a direct debit set 
up to pay her credit card. I have not considered these payments in this decision because 
they are not part of the complaint she raised with Santander. She may wish to contact 
Santander separately about these payments and raise a separate complaint if she isnt 
satisfied by its response.
On 8 October 2019 Mrs R says she deposited £1500 in branch to credit her current account. 
Santander instead made a payment of £1209.27 to her credit card, which comprised a 
£1000 cash payment, and a £209.27 withdrawal from her current account.
Mrs R says the purpose of the £1500 deposit was to increase the balance on her current 
account so there were sufficient funds to meet further payments due in November 2019. It 
was not to pay her credit card, which she thought had already been paid.
Mrs R says she visited the branch previously on 2 October 2019, after receiving a returned 
direct debit letter on 1 October 2019. Her direct debit failed due to insufficient funds in her 
current account. She deposited £500 in cash and a cheque for £1000. She recalls being told 
the cheque would take a day or so to clear, and the funds would be used to pay her credit 
card with no late payment charge.
The £500 credited her current account on 2 October 2019 and the cheque cleared on           
3 October 2019.
Mrs R discovered the loss when she received her statement several weeks later. She came 
to realise £500 had gone unaccounted from the £1500 she deposited, so she asked 
Santander to investigate. She first suspected that £1209.27 had been used from the £1500 
to pay her credit card, so she was looking for a cash deposit for the remainder on her 
statement. Instead she saw a £209.27 debit.
Santander said Mrs R only deposited £1000 in cash on 8 October 2019, and she had asked 
to pay her credit card rather than credit her current account. Mrs R raised a complaint which 
Santander rejected, so she brought her complaint to us.
An investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint and decided not to uphold it. In summary they 
found:
Its not possible to know what happened on 2 October 2019, except that Santander 
took a cheque for £1000 and £500 in cash. What is confusing is why the funds 
credited Mrs Rs current account if they were meant to be used to pay her credit card. 
As the direct debit payment had been missed, Mrs S wouldve needed to make a 
further payment instruction once the cheque had cleared.
Its unlikely the person who served Mrs R wouldve withdrawn £209.27 from her 
current account and used £1000 in cash to pay her credit card without her instruction. 
Its more likely a conversation took place about Mrs Rs credit card and the amount 
still owed, which resulted in the payment.
Santanders records showed Mrs R authorised the £209.27 withdrawal through chip 
and PIN. The receipt for the total payment of £1,209 was handed to her, which 
Santander say she wouldve had to confirm before the receipt was printed.
Its unlikely the cashier made away with the missing £500.They wouldnt have known 
Miss R would only notice her loss until much later, so there was a significant risk of 
being caught.
Santander paid Miss R £25 for the cost of the returned direct debit fee incurred on 1 
October and for petrol which was fair and reasonable.
Mrs R didnt agree with the outcome the investigator reached. She has asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ve decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R made a number of points following the outcome reached by the investigator. I have 
read very carefully what she has said and considered each point. But I havent needed to 
comment on everything she has said in this decision.
Mrs R previously told the investigator she only recalled a branch member taking the 
envelope of cash and going to the back office. She was offered a seat due to her suffering 
from back pain, and the person who took the envelope returned with a receipt, which she 
didnt check.
Following the investigators findings, Mrs R now says a conversation about her credit card 
did occur that day. She says the person who took her envelope approached her later to 
discuss her overdue credit card payment. So, she entered her chip and PIN on a handheld 
card machine to authorise the credit card payment. She wasnt alerted to the fact that 
Santander hadnt deposited £1500 to her current account and thought she was authorising a 
different payment.
There is some difference in what Mrs R has said here. But I think this is understandable. I 
have no reason to doubt Mrs R genuinely believes she handed over £1500 in cash that day. 
But I find what Mrs R is now saying is more likely an attempt to explain what may have happened that day, rather than a specific memory. Otherwise I think she wouldve recalled 
this more precise version of events earlier.
Its not possible to know what happened on 8 October 2019. So, where facts are unclear, I 
am left to decide what I think most likely happened based on all the information available. 
These are my findings:
Im satisfied Mrs R made a withdrawal of £1500 cash on 8 October 2019 from her 
savings account. Her account provider confirmed the £1500 withdrawal. Santander 
also rang her account provider when it investigated her claim, and it confirmed there 
wasnt a £500 till discrepancy.
Im satisfied a conversation took place on 8 October 2019 between a member of 
Santanders branch staff and Mrs R about paying her credit card. Her payment was 
overdue and its likely this wouldve been flagged to her, particularly because she 
went on to authorise a payment to her credit card.
Santanders records indicate Mrs R agreed to the £209.27 withdrawal. She needed to 
enter her PIN to confirm the payment. She says she wouldve done what she was 
told  although it was her responsibility to ensure she understood what she was 
agreeing to. But even so, I find Mrs R was likely told she was agreeing to withdraw 
funds from her current account to pay her credit card. The cashier could only act on 
Mrs Rs mandate, so acting without her knowledge would be remarkably remiss.
Santanders records indicate Mrs R confirmed the total £1209.27 payment before the 
receipt was printed. Ive taken on board Mrs R couldve thought the payment was 
unrelated to the £1500 she asked to be deposited to her current account. But again, I 
dont think this is likely. Approving the separate withdrawal of £209.27 ought to have 
led her to question what the payment was for if she thought she was paying the 
entire sum from her current account.
I doubt the person who served Mrs R stole £500, which Mrs R doesnt suspect either. 
They wouldve taken a great risk, and not known when Mrs R would notice her loss.
I acknowledge cashiers make mistakes and money can be mislaid. But Santanders 
records dont show till or safe discrepancies. Its also possible an opportunist 
managed to take £500 before the cash was counted, but I simply dont have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that most likely explains what happened.
If £1500 was handed to the cashier, it seems odd for only £1000 to have been used 
to pay her credit card balance and the remainder from her current account. It would 
also be odd for £500 to be miscounted, particularly by an experienced employee, 
who is less likely to make a mistake. Santander confirmed the employee in question 
doesnt have a marked history of till discrepancies.
Mrs R suggests the person who served her on 8 October 2019 may have become 
confused because of her previous payment by cheque. But I dont think this is 
plausible. The cheque cleared several days before, so I dont see why it wouldve 
caused confusion even if it was discussed.
Mrs R places weight on needing the additional £1500 in her current account to meet 
her liabilities for November. But I havent seen £500 extra was needed to meet her 
commitments. Ive also considered Mrs R couldve taken £500 from the envelope to replace the £500 she deposited on 2 October 2019, which had been earmarked to 
pay for housekeeping.
Mrs R places weight on thinking her credit card had already been paid by the time 
she went to the branch on 8 October 2019. But its not evident what happened on 2 
October 2019, except that £500 was paid in cash into Mrs Rs current account and a 
cheque for £1000 was presented which was cleared and deposited into her current 
account the next day. 
Mrs R says she expected the funds she paid on 2 October to be used to pay her 
credit card. But as the direct debit payment date had been missed, another payment 
instruction was needed to pay funds from her current account to her credit card once 
the cheque had cleared. As the investigator pointed out, there wouldnt have been 
another direct debit representation. According to Santanders website, cheques can 
be used to pay any Santander account. So, its unclear why the funds were deposited 
to Mrs Rs current account if she instructed Santander to pay her credit card. 
What can explain this? Well, Mrs R couldve been misadvised, or Santander couldve 
made an error processing her instruction. But its also possible Mrs R didnt intend to 
pay her credit card on 2 October 2019 and instead wanted to top up her account on 
the premise she thought her direct debit had been paid and her balance was low. Its 
unusual she received the direct debit letter so quickly when the payment had only 
failed the day before. But whatever happened that day doesnt explain how £500 
couldve gone missing on 8 October 2019.
On balance, I find its more likely Santander were only presented with £1000 in cash and not 
£1500 as Mrs R believes. So, I am not directing Santander to pay her £500.
Im also satisfied it was fair for Santander to pay Mrs R £25 to make up for the returned 
direct debit fee she was charged and for the cost of petrol. Im not directing Santander to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman