DRN-3207762
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined a credit card application. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr W complained to HSBC that a credit card application was declined. Mr W 
has explained he wanted to use a promotional interest rate to complete a balance transfer. 
Around this time, Mr W had an ongoing complaint with HSBC about a payment holiday. 
HSBC issued its final response but didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. HSBC said Mr W had the 
option of reapplying in a few months time. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission, HSBC said it could find no trace of a credit card application (declined or 
otherwise) from Mr W prior to his complaint being made. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Ws complaint as they didnt find information that showed an application was declined by 
HSBC. Mr W asked to appeal and confirmed he had applied as claimed and said details of 
the application would show on his credit file. Mr W didnt accept the investigators view, so 
his complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
I recently asked both HSBC and Mr W to provide some additional information. I asked HSBC 
to provide evidence of all the application records it has for Mr W. I also asked Mr W to 
provide a copy of his credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, theres a disagreement about whether HSBC declined a credit card application 
for Mr W. I can see that Mr W contacted HSBC and complained about a declined credit card 
application on 8 June 2020. I think its reasonable to say any application would predate the 
complaint. 
When a business completes an application theres normally a credit search recorded on the 
applicants credit file. Mr W has forwarded a full copy of his credit file, but it only shows credit 
searches completed within the previous 12 months. At the point the credit file was produced, 
it was around 18 months after the application in question. So the credit file information 
provided doesnt show whether HSBC carried out a search on Mr W or not. 
I also asked HSBC to send in evidence from its systems to show applications in Mr Ws 
name. HSBC has given us evidence from its systems that shows Mr W made loan 
applications in 2019 and 2020 - the period in question - but theres nothing to show a credit 
card application was considered or declined. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but the evidence available doesnt show a credit card 
application was assessed and declined by HSBC before he complained in June 2020. As a 
result, Im unable to agree HSBC treated him unfairly. 
I understand Mr W has complained about a payment holiday on another product with HSBC 
and is concerned that this caused his application to be declined. But as theres no evidence 
an application was considered by HSBC, Im satisfied the payment holiday issues Mr W has 
raised werent a factor.
As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman