DRN-3327097
The complaint
Mr C complains that an insurance policy was mis-sold by Balens Limited.
What happened
Mr C works as a medical professional took out a professional insurance policy using Balens 
as an intermediary. One of the sections of the policy covered legal expenses. 
Mr C sought to claim on the policy. He wanted to claim under the legal expenses section as 
he was seeking legal advice and representation. Hed been asked by the police to provide 
copies of his notes from consultations with a patient. 
Mr Cs claim was declined. The insurer concluded that there was no cover available on the 
policy in these circumstances as set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. In addition 
to making a complaint to the insurer, Mr C also complained to Balens.
Mr Cs complaint to Balens was that it had arranged a policy which didnt include the 
necessary cover he required. Balens rejected his complaint, so he referred it to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Balens had done anything wrong. Mr C disagreed, and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Im not looking at the outcome of Mr Cs claim, and whether the 
insurer was correct in its determination that no cover existed. What Im considering is 
whether Mr C had a reasonable expectation based on his contact with Balens that the cover 
extended to cover the circumstances of the claim.
Mr C arranged the policy with Balens on a non-advised basis  in effect, Balens made no 
recommendation and gave no advice on the suitability of the policy prior to it being taken out. 
This was confirmed in the terms of business letter sent to Mr C when Balens provided details 
of the cover available, before he took the policy out, which said, This service is on a non-
advised basis which means that we do not make a personal recommendation on the 
suitability of the product. We provide you with sufficient information which will enable you to 
make your own informed decision as to whether or not this policy, and the two insurance 
covers you can add, are suitable for your insurance requirements.
Im satisfied that the documents sent to Mr C were clear, fair and not misleading. I cant see 
anything within these documents which suggested that the policy he was taking out provided 
additional cover, or on different terms, to what is outlined within the full policy wording. Im 
satisfied that Balens provided sufficient information for Mr C to make an informed decision 
about the cover available. I also havent seen anything to suggest that Mr C sought to clarify 
the cover available or requested additional cover beyond what was outlined in the 
documents provided to him.
Im aware that Mr C has said that Balens doesnt offer an advised sale of policies, despite 
projecting itself as a specialist in arranging cover for medical professionals. Its not our 
services role to tell a financial business what services it should offer, or how to conduct its 
business. Whats relevant to my considerations here is that this was a non-advised sale, and 
Ive concluded that Balens properly discharged its obligations on that basis.
Mr Cs also indicated that Balens shouldnt have been offering the policy to medical 
professionals if it didnt include the cover he thinks was necessary. In a non-advised sale, 
Balens wasnt making a recommendation of the policy, but presenting the details of it to Mr C 
for him to make a decision as to whether he wanted to take out that cover. It was acting as 
an intermediary between Mr C and the insurer, not sourcing and recommending cover for Mr 
C.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman