DRN-4159621
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined a payment for an 
Electronic Travel Authorisation (eTA) whilst abroad. 
What happened
Mr J was travelling abroad and has explained that his return route was due to transit via 
Canada. 
On 2 November 2022, whilst preparing to return home, Mr J attempted to purchase an eTA 
that would allow him to take the return flight, using his Halifax account to make the $7 
payment. But the payment wasnt authorised by Halifax and Mr J has explained that, as a 
result, he had to book an alternative flight at a substantial cost. 
Mr J complained to Halifax and it issued a final response on 21 November 2022. Halifax said 
Mr Js account had initially been blocked on 25 October 2022 but theyd been removed after 
he made contact. Halifax said another transaction was blocked on 1 November 2022 but that 
Mr Js card was still active. On 2 November 2022 Mr J attempted to make an online payment 
for the eTA but it was declined by Halifaxs systems. Halifax apologised for any 
inconvenience caused and offered Mr J £150. In a follow up final response, Halifax said it 
would consider covering the additional costs Mr J incurred and paid him a further £40. 
Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was passed to an 
investigator. Mr J said he wanted Halifax to cover the cost of the flight hed had to book after 
being unable to pay for the eTA. Halifax provided further comment on whether it was willing 
to cover Mr Js flight costs. Halifax confirmed it wasnt willing to do so and pointed out that 
guidance provided by the Canadian government says the eTA should be applied for at the 
point of purchasing the flight, not immediately before travel. 
The investigator reviewed Mr Js case and asked Halifax to increase its award from £150 to 
£300 as they werent satisfied it had removed blocks from his account. But the investigator 
didnt think it was fair to ask Halifax to cover Mr Js flight costs given the timing of his attempt 
to obtain the eTA. 
Halifax agreed to pay the increased settlement but Mr J asked to appeal. As a result, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has confirmed it applied an account block whilst Mr J was abroad as the transactions 
he attempted appeared suspicious. But Mr J contacted Halifax and confirmed the attempts 
were genuine. As our investigator has said, it appears from the business file that the block 
may not have been removed after Mr J made contact. And I understand that Mr Js view is 
that the payment would most likely have gone through if his account had been operating as 
normal. 
Our investigator increased the award to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
J but didnt ask Halifax to cover the cost of Mr Js replacement flight. Ive also considered 
whether it would be fair to tell Halifax to compensate Mr J for his flight costs. But I think 
Halifax makes a reasonable point when it refers to the eTA guidance provided by the 
Canadian government online. The guidance says the best time to apply for the eTA is before 
the flight is booked. In my view, that guidance is likely to be provided to ensure the eTA can 
be authorised before the cost of a flight is incurred by a traveller. Halifax claims that if Mr J 
had made eTA arrangements earlier, any issues couldve been resolve in time for his flight. 
Whilst I agree there does appear to be evidence of an unresolved account block by Halifax, I 
think it makes a reasonable point when it says the timing of Mr Js eTA application left no 
room to resolve any unexpected problems. Mr Js told us he booked his flights the day 
before he travelled. But it appears to me there was reasonable time to make the necessary 
arrangements before the date of travel. In the circumstances of Mr Js case, I havent been 
persuaded it would be fair to tell Halifax to cover the cost of the replacement flight. 
Halifax initially offered Mr J £150 and paid him an additional £40 in respect of the way his 
complaint was handled. But the investigator awarded a further £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J. Ive considered what Mr Js told us about his 
experiences and the impact of the issues raised. Whilst I havent been persuaded to award 
flight costs, I agree an increase in the compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair. And Im satisfied that a further £150 taking the award to £300 (excluding the 
£40 paid in respect of complaint handling) is a fair and reasonable reflection of how the 
issues raised impacted Mr J. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent found grounds to 
increase the award further. 
As Im satisfied an award of a further £150 is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Js 
case Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold his complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to settle by paying him a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
(less any compensation already paid outside of the £40 complaint handling award). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman