DRN-4369203
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) treated them 
unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage.
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B received a mortgage offer from BOS  the mortgage completed 
shortly afterward. The offer confirmed an initial rate of 5.72% would apply to the mortgage 
until 30 September 2011, after which, BOS standard variable rate (SVR) would apply. 
On 17 November 2021, Mr and Mrs Bs previous representative sent a letter of complaint to 
BOS on their behalf. The letter set out that Mr and Mrs B sought to claim damages in relation 
to being overcharged interest on their outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful 
interest rates and any variations in the interest rates charged by BOS. 
The letter set out that Mr and Mrs B consider that the mortgage offer issued in September 
2008 contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr and Mrs Bs then representative 
argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr and Mrs B were misled into believing 
that this rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England base rate, rather 
than at BOS discretion.
Mr and Mrs B do not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which 
defined the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect consumers, such as Mr and Mrs B, to pore over the small print 
to understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that BOS could 
vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The failure to 
do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for the 
purposes of UTCCR such that BOS is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr and Mrs B did not have an effective right to 
termination due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as 
other costs associated with discharging their mortgage and switching to another 
lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance rather than BOS SVR. 
BOS actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr and Mrs B seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid 
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what 
they deem to be a reasonable rate. 
BOS responded to the letter of complaint on 29 November 2021, disagreeing with 
Mr and Mrs Bs allegations. In summary, BOS argued:
The mortgage documentation clearly explained that its SVR could change and the 
bank is allowed to change its SVR in the circumstances set out in the mortgage 
conditions. 
The descriptions of the interest rate set out in the mortgage offer are worded in 
accordance with the requirements of the MCOB rules. 
The mortgage conditions expand on the offer and include details of the banks right to 
change the variable rate. It does not agree that, by virtue of them being set out 
separately from the mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs B shouldnt be expected to have read 
them.
The ERC ceased to apply to the mortgage once the fixed rate came to an end. So, 
Mr and Mrs B were able to repay the mortgage without incurring any charges under 
the terms of the mortgage contract.
There is nothing in the terms and conditions of the mortgage that suggest a change 
in the Bank of England base rate would, or should, result in a change to its SVR. It 
does not agree that the mortgage documentation suggests, implies or states that the 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage would track base rate. 
It disagrees that the terms are unfair contract terms. 
BOS also set out that it thought Mr and Mrs B ought to have been aware that their 
mortgage did not track base rate at the outset of the mortgage from the mortgage 
documentation they received and from the financial advice they received before 
entering the mortgage. It also highlights that it wrote to Mr and Mrs B in March 2012 
to notify them of a change to the banks SVR. The change in SVR at that time was 
not linked to any change in the Bank of England base rate and it considers this was 
made clear in its letter. 
Unhappy with BOS response, Mr and Mrs Bs representative referred their complaint to our 
service on 17 March 2022. 
Prior to one of our investigators reviewing Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, their representative 
decided they no longer wished to pursue this complaint on their behalf and chose to 
withdraw from acting as their representative. Mr and Mrs B said they still wished to continue 
with the complaint on their own. 
Following Mr and Mrs Bs decision to continue with their complaint, one of our investigators 
issued an assessment explaining the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant for 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, before also going on to not uphold the part of their complaint that 
had been brought in time. 
In summary she said:The complaint was raised on 17 November 2021, so the investigator concluded that 
a complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 17 November 2015 
onward. So, she was satisfied that she could consider whether the sums charged 
from 17 November 2021 onward were fair and reasonable. 
She noted that DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario 
where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event 
complained of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from 
the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint. But she thought Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to 
have been aware they had cause for complaint from September 2011 when their 
mortgage reverted to the SVR (given what their representative said they knew at the 
time they took out the mortgage) or, at the very latest, by March 2012 when they 
received a letter explaining that their SVR was going to change, despite there not 
being a corresponding change in the Base Rate. So, she didnt think this gave them 
any more time. 
In considering the part of the complaint that had been brought in time, the 
investigator set out that she had taken into account the relevant law, regulations and 
what is fair in all the circumstances, meaning whether the term used to vary the SVR 
was unfair and whether BOS use of those terms led to unfairness. Having done so, 
she didnt think BOS actions in varying its SVR led to Mr and Mrs B being 
overcharged interest on their mortgage. 
She accepted that the Bank of England base rate had reduced significantly since 
Mr and Mrs B first took out their mortgage but noted that BOS were not contractually 
obligated to have its SVR track base rate. Instead, she was satisfied BOS had varied 
its SVR in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and had 
exercised those terms fairly. 
BOS responded to say it didnt have any further comments following the investigators 
assessment. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they had been complaining about their interest rate and the 
impact it was having on their financial circumstances for over 15 years. So, they disagreed 
with the investigators findings that part of this complaint was out of time and her finding that 
it should not be upheld. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Why I can only look at part of this complaint
BOS previously raised an objection to our service considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, in 
short, it thought Mr and Mrs B had brought their complaint too late under the DISP rules. In 
contrast, Mr and Mrs B disagree that any part of this complaint should be out of time  they 
say theyve been in discussions with BOS about the interest rate and its impact on them for 
over 15 years. 
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service  set out in the DISP section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  prescribe the time limits applicable to complaints. 
DISP 2.8.2R provides that
The ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
Unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received; 
Unless
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2R or DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
In this case BOS has not consented to our consideration of any matter that is out of time and 
while Mr and Mrs B say they have raised concerns about the interest rate before, they 
acknowledge that they do not have a record of this. I also havent been made aware of any 
exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr and Mrs B from being able to raise their 
complaint in time. 
In respect of whether this complaint was brought in time, Im satisfied I have the jurisdiction 
to consider the complaint from 21 November 2015, being six years before Mr and Mrs B first 
brought this complaint. And Im satisfied complaints about charges and interest before this 
date are out of time pursuant to DISP 2.8.2R, since Mr and Mrs B knew or ought reasonably 
to have known  of cause for complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs B expected their SVR to track base rate (as stated in their original complaint 
letter to BOS), then it would have been clear to them that it had not done so when they 
reverted to the SVR in 2011 with a margin higher over base rate than they had expected 
would be the case. And if not then, certainly by March 2012 when they received a letter 
informing them of an impending change to their SVR which was not aligned to a change in 
base rate.  
In considering the fairness of the interest charged from 21 November 2015 onwards, I need 
to consider the whole history of the interest rate, including before 21 November 2015. That is 
because each time BOS made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at that 
revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the level 
resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from 21 November 2015 is 
the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And if any of those parts were 
themselves potentially unfair, that might mean that the SVR charged from 21 November 
2015 is itself unfair. 
I will also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term as a matter 
of law. Both of those things are part of all of the circumstances of the case that I am 
required to consider under the DISP rules and are potentially relevant to whether interest 
charged from 21 November 2015 onwards is fair and reasonable. 
Having decided that I only have the power to consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint from 21 
November 2015 onwards, I will now go on to consider the merits of the part of their 
complaint that is in time. 
What Ive decided on the part of the complaint that is in time  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: (a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Bs previous representative raised many individual complaint points both to BOS 
directly and to this service and as Mr and Mrs B have not presented any additional complaint 
points of their own, it is the complaint letter submitted by the representative in November 
2021 that frames the scope of this complaint. Overall, I consider the complaint to break down 
into two key points:
Mr and Mrs B had an expectation that their mortgage would track the Bank of 
England base rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, BOS has 
treated them unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs B have paid an unfairly high rate of interest compared to what they 
should have done from 21 November 2015 onwards because in varying the SVR 
BOS (i) relied on an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed 
by the terms and conditions. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did BOS actions cause Mr and Mrs B to have a legitimate expectation that their mortgage 
would track the Bank of England Base Rate?
Mr and Mrs Bs representative considered BOS actions to have given Mr and Mrs B a 
legitimate expectation that their mortgage would track base rate. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage would revert to the 
SVR once their fixed interest period expired and that the SVR could go up as well as down. 
And I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that BOS was obligated, contractually 
or otherwise, to have its SVR track Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr and Mrs Bs representative argued that, as the mortgage general terms and 
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the 
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
BOS was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in one 
document. And while I appreciate this means Mr and Mrs B would need to read more than 
one document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed their mortgage, given 
this was a substantial liability, secured on their principal asset, I think Mr and Mrs B ought 
reasonably to be treated as if they had read all of the information provided. Im also not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that BOS acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between base rate and the SVR the same  the 
fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that BOS had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think that in 
commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which funding 
costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of this 
case, would obviously commit BOS to doing so.
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
The fairness of the interest charged on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage
I must consider whether from 21 November 2015 onwards, Mr and Mrs B have paid an 
unfairly high rate of interest. To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to 
first set out the relevant terms themselves:
The relevant section of mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs B by BOS in September 2008 
set out that their three-year fixed interest rate would operate as follows:
4. Description of this mortgage

-a fixed rate of 5.720% which ends on 30/09/2011. 
Your loan reverts to Halifax standard variable rate, currently 7.000%, after 
30/09/2011 until the end of the term. 

The interest rate(s) applicable to this mortgage can go up or down
The relevant terms and conditions dated 2007 say:
6. The interest we charge

6.10 We can change the interest we charge on any part of the capital at any time, 
unless the offer, any extra agreement or any flexible options agreement says we 
cannot. We can change the interest rate for any of the following reasons. 
(a) to reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our customers 
with mortgages of residential property.
.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out that when the initial fixed rate expired in 2011, 
the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR and that the SVR could be varied in line with 
terms of the mortgage.
Ive considered whether the terms in Mr and Mrs Bs agreement go further than reasonably
necessary to protect BOS legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent. Having done so, and while overall I am satisfied with fairness of the 
variation clause, I accept that there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts of 
the clause are overly broad and could be more transparent. But I think its important to be clear that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether 
there has been any unfairness to Mr and Mrs B from 21 November 2015 onwards. The 
fairness of the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr and Mrs B. I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to 
uphold this case. 
Has BOS exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage since 21 November 2015, why its
necessary for me to consider historic changes to BOS SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes BOS has made to the SVR 
since Mr and Mrs B took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything 
BOS has done in varying the rate has led to Mr and Mrs B being treated unfairly. I have set 
out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence the 
BOS has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to 
Mr and Mrs B. Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a 
description of it is disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do 
consider it appropriate to accept the information and evidence BOS has provided in 
confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in this decision.
Between September 2008 (when Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage) and September 
2011 when their fixed interest period ended, the difference between the Bank of England 
Base Rate and the SVR (the margin) increased from 2.35% to 4.34%. Whilst the SVR did 
reduce during this period, it didnt reduce by the same proportion as the reduction in the 
base rate.
Ive already set out that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was not a tracker mortgage, so BOS was 
not contractually obligated to set its SVR at a level that tracked the base rate for duration of 
the mortgage term. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage had a cap preventing 
BOS SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. So, there was nothing 
in the contract that expressly prohibited BOS from setting the SVR at a level whereby the 
margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that doesnt mean that it could 
set the SVR at whatever level it chose. The term enabling BOS to vary the SVR itself has to 
be fair (to prevent businesses taking advantage of customers), and BOS had to ensure that 
in varying the SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including 
BOS, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the 
market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both 
the Bank of England and the FCA since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during 
this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential 
requirements. These were made up of several factors and that are not directly linked to base 
rate. So, I think there are likely to be objectively justifiable reasons why BOS did not reduce 
its SVR at the same level as the reduction in the Bank of England Base Rate. BOS has told us it experienced unusual volatility in its long-term funding costs at this time 
and it has been able to show the resulting impact on its overall margins as well as illustrating 
the spread between its cost of funding and the reductions in base rate. 
It is accepted that during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between 
LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate 
reductions to LIBOR or to BOS cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale 
funding became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default. 
While the evidence provided by both parties is limited, I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest the changes BOS made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence 
Ive seen satisfies me that BOS acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its 
obligation to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly. And Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the 
evidence BOS has been able to provide for this period is corroborated by evidence of wider 
market conditions at the time. 
Following the financial crisis, Mr and Mrs Bs SVR followed the movements in base rate on 
all but one occasion, in 2012. At this point, BOS increased the SVR by 0.25% outside of any 
change to base rate. It wrote to Mr and Mrs B to let it know of the proposed change and has 
shared evidence with this service that the change was in line with its terms and conditions 
and for genuine business reasons. 
So even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I am 
not persuaded that BOS operated them in an unfair manner when setting and varying the 
interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. That being the case, I dont think there 
is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mr and Mrs B being charged an unfairly 
high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen no 
evidence to say that the interest they were charged during that period was unfair for any 
other reason. 
I have also considered the representatives point that BOS has breached Principle 6 of the 
FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons set 
out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
Finally, I am aware Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that the interest rate charged by BOS 
caused them to experience financial difficulty. I am sorry to hear this, but as I have found 
BOS charged interest in line with the terms and conditions that govern their mortgage and 
did so fairly, I am not upholding this complaint. I have not seen evidence that Mr and Mrs B 
have complained to BOS about how it did or did not support them during their financial 
difficulties, so I have not commented on that point in this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and therefore make no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman