DRN-3924704
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly declined his claims relating to 
various credit card transactions for holiday services and accommodation.   
What happened
In or around April 2015, Mr H purchased a timeshare product from a company Ill refer to as 
E at a cost of £11,409. He paid for this partly using a Santander debit card with the balance 
paid by bank transfer - both from his account with Santander. 
In early 2016, Mr H says he received a telephone call from a company Ill refer to as C. 
They told him that E had been subject to court action which found that theyd misrepresented 
their timeshare agreements. They said that all subscribers to Es products were due a refund 
together with interest and offered to act for him in securing any refund due.
Mr H decided to first contact Santander to request a refund of money hed paid for his 
timeshare contract with E. But due to the way hed made payments to E, Santander said 
they werent able to make a refund or consider any claim for misrepresentation.
Sometime later, Mr H received a further call from C. They didnt think Santander had 
responded to his refund request correctly and offered to assist him with filing a claim on a 
no win no fee basis. In order to do so, C required Mr H to travel to their offices at a holiday 
destination outside of the UK. Mr H says C agreed they would refund his flight costs and pay 
for accommodation on a half board basis for three nights. Mr H accepted Cs invitation. 
Upon arrival at the holiday destination, Mr H met with representatives of C whereupon they 
discussed an offshore holiday scheme with him. Mr H says they offered to pay him £4,500 
and assist him with securing a loan of £9,000 in the UK. Once his claim against E was 
completed, he would then repay them the initial £4,500. Mr H says he was subsequently 
asked to sign various documents and he paid a total of £4,500 using two Santander credit 
cards. Mr H says he was told he wouldnt be able to cancel the agreements once signed. 
Upon returning to the UK, Mr H received a further call from C confirming his claim against E 
had been registered. Later he received another call requesting he take out a loan for £9,000 
but Mr H wasnt willing to do that. So, Mr H called the office hed recently visited and told C 
he had no interest in their holiday scheme and merely wanted reimbursement for his 
timeshare purchase with E. He wanted C to refund the payments hed made to them, but C 
refused.
In or around August 2019, Mr H contacted Santander to explain what had happened and 
requested a refund of payments hed made using his Santander credit cards to C. Santander 
agreed to raise and investigate two claims under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA)  one for each of the credit cards hed used. 
Santander declined Mr Hs initial claim(s) as, from the evidence available, they werent able 
to find thered been any breach of contract. In particular because the beneficiaries of Mr Hs 
credit card payments werent connected to E. So, couldnt be held responsible for any 
breaches or misrepresentation made by E in relation to his timeshare purchase.
Santander also said that the payments Mr H related to accommodation bookings which the 
travel operator confirmed were still valid. And as Mr H hadnt yet used these, no breach of 
contract had occurred.
The booking agent later confirmed to Santander that while the bookings under one reference 
quoted remained valid, all other booking had been cancelled. Santander said the amount 
paid for the valid bookings totalled £1,860. All other bookings had now been subsequently 
cancelled and as a consequence, Santander agreed to settle Mr Hs claim by paying 
£2,626.63  that being the difference between all the credit card transactions made by Mr H 
less £1,860 in respect of the remaining valid booking(s).
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
felt hed been misled and sought reimbursement for all that hed paid, including the amounts 
paid for the original timeshare purchase in 2015. One of our investigators considered all the 
evidence and information available. In doing so, they didnt think Santander had dealt with 
Mr Hs claim(s) unfairly or unreasonably. Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. 
He thought Santander should also refund the £1,860.
As an informal agreement couldnt be achieved, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr H paid 
for the various purchases using his Santander credit cards. So it isnt in dispute that S75 
applies here. This means that Mr H is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him 
under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial products or 
services and provide rules and guidance about what this service is able to consider. Its 
relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service (ADR) 
is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an ombudsman can 
be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. And this 
service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue 
their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. 
Were the products misrepresented?
Mr Hs original claim to Santander related to the timeshare product he purchased from E. But 
Mr Hs claim wasnt progressed by Santander as hed paid for the timeshare with payments 
using his debit card and a bank transfer. And because there were no associated credit 
agreements involved, Mr H doesnt benefit from the protection afforded under S75 of the 
CCA. As a consequence, it appears Santanders response was reasonable here. Mr Hs subsequent claim related to the credit card transactions he made when he visited C 
to discuss his claim for a refund under the timeshare agreement provided by E. These 
transactions that do fall under the protection offered by S75 because he used his credit 
cards. Mr H believes the transactions related to C assisting him with his refund claim.  
However, none of the payments appear to have been made to C or any clearly related entity. 
So, I realise Mr H will be disappointed, but Ive found no evidence, written or otherwise, that 
supports Mr Hs suggestions here. It appears the transactions and associated 
documentation relate solely to accommodation purchases.
Was there any breach of contract? 
The credit card transactions were made to three different entities as follows:
Entity P1  totaling £1,495.62;
Entity T  totaling £1,489.68; and
Entity P2  totaling £1,501.33.
Documentation from the time suggests that the payments for each entity included £620.00 in 
respect of accommodation for the period 3 July and 6 July 2019. The remaining balance, in 
each case, relates to three other bookings under separate references:
Booking 1 for the period 8 December to 15 December 2019;
Booking 2 for the period 4 March to 11 March 2020; and
Booking 3 for the period 5 May to 12 May 2020.
All the documents appear to have been signed and dated by Mr H.
Santanders records show they were later told that the accommodation yet to be utilised 
under these bookings had subsequently been cancelled. They were told this by the booking 
agent. Because the bookings couldnt be honoured, this was effectively a breach of contract 
 Something that Mr H is protected against under S75, because hed paid for them using his 
Santander credit cards. As a result, Santander agreed to refund a total of £2,626.63. And I 
think that appears a fair and reasonable decision here.
Mr H has confirmed that he attended and utilised the original booking between 3 July and 6 
July 2019. And while I appreciate he says C told him they would pay for this accommodation; 
Ive seen nothing within any of the evidence or documentation from the time to confirm this. 
Theres also no evidence or suggestion that the accommodation Mr H paid for and used was 
misrepresented. And because he successfully utilised that booking, I cant reasonably 
conclude that there was a breach of contract either. Mr H benefitted from the service hed 
paid for. As a result, I havent found any evidence suggesting Santanders decision to 
decline a refund of £1,860 (equating to 3 X £620) was unfair or unreasonable. 
Summary
The complaint referred to this service by Mr H relates to his dissatisfaction with Santanders 
response to his complaint - That being about their decision to decline part of his S75 claim. 
However, as Ive explained above, I havent found anything that persuades me Santanders 
response was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Dave MorganOmbudsman